---

title: Machine-to-machine service based on common data format
abstract: A method, a device, and a non-transitory storage medium having instructions to establish a connection with a sensor device; receive sensor data from the sensor device via the connection; convert the sensor data into common data of a common data format, wherein the common data includes metadata that supports an ontology; store the common data; and transmit the common data to a network device of a network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09654567&OS=09654567&RS=09654567
owner: Cellco Partnership
number: 09654567
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160330
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 142 083 filed on Dec. 27 2013 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Machine to Machine M2M communication has expanded to a variety of applications such as utilities vending machines point of sales terminals transport and logistics healthcare security financial services etc. A machine to machine communication may traverse a variety of networks operating according to different standards to provide a communication link between devices.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements. Also the following detailed description does not limit the invention.

The term machine to machine communications as used herein is intended to be broadly interpreted to include communication between two or more devices. Additionally it is intended that other terms and their meanings such as for example device to device D2D communications and or telemetry are incorporated into the term machine to machine communications. A machine to machine communication may occur via a wireless connection and or a wired connection.

The breadth of applications pertaining to M2M communications continues. As a natural consequence the M2M arena has given way to a variety of vendor specific data formats. For example in the area of pedometers various vendors e.g. Fitbit Nike Bodymedia etc. each use their own data format. Additionally the use of simple sensors to gather data for an M2M communication is commonplace. While each of these data formats is sufficient within the scope of their application as a collective the individual data format lacks the ability to aggregate and augment their measurement across a larger application space. While this shortcoming may stem from reserving battery life and managing cost the use of simple sensors limit the type of data acquired. For example a simple sensor may acquire a very limited amount type of data without acquiring context data e.g. location etc. and or performing primitive logical functions e.g. comparing recent data to a threshold etc. .

In addition to the drawbacks mentioned above M2M infrastructures can be susceptible to acquiring redundant data which in turn can unnecessarily waste resources and also increase the cost of the M2M infrastructure to support the transport and storage of data etc. Additionally typically M2M communications lack data security. For example a sensor may transmit data to another device in which the data is not encrypted nor is session connectivity secured.

Environment may be implemented to include wired optical and or wireless connections among the devices and the network illustrated. A connection may be direct or indirect and may involve an intermediary device and or an intermediary network not illustrated in . Additionally the number and the arrangement of connections between the devices and the network of environment are exemplary.

The number of devices and networks and the configuration in environment are exemplary. According to other embodiments environment may include additional devices different devices and or differently arranged devices than those illustrated in . For example a single device e.g. network device in may be implemented as multiple devices and or multiple single devices e.g. sensor device and CDF device may be combined into a single device. Additionally or alternatively environment may include an additional network and or a differently arranged network than that illustrated in .

A device e.g. common data format device network device and user device may be implemented according to one or multiple network architectures e.g. a client device a server device a peer device a proxy device and or a cloud device . A device may be implemented according to a centralized computing architecture a distributed computing architecture or a cloud computing architecture. Also according to other embodiments one or more functions and or processes described as being performed by a particular device may be performed by a different device or some combination of devices.

Sensor device includes a device that detects an input or an event from the physical environment. Sensor device may generate data pertaining to one of many application areas such as environmental medical security transportation energy automation military etc. Sensor device may be mobile stationary battery powered line powered an electronic sensor a biosensor a chemical sensor a mechanical sensor etc. According to an exemplary implementation sensor device is a simple or dumb sensor with little if any intelligence other than to generate data in response to the input and transmit the data. Sensor device may generate data of a proprietary format. Sensor device communicates the data to common data format device .

Common data format device includes a device that receives data from sensor device . According to an exemplary embodiment common data format device authenticates sensor device . For example common data format device authenticates based on a network address or other identifier associated with sensor device and included with a transmission from sensor device . According to an exemplary embodiment common data format device includes a policy engine. The policy engine uses policies to perform various functions. For example the policy engine may govern the logic of common data format device as to whether to perform or not perform a function and how to perform a function. By way of example the policy engine may invoke policies pertaining to the filtering of sensor data the prioritizing of sensor data authenticating sensor devices etc. The policy engine may also prescribe a rule set that enforces a globally irrefutable signature that enables the traceability and authenticity of the sensor data e.g. by way of a one way hash such as a Merkle Tree hash . This signature enforcement ensures that data acquired by a variety of sensors is only admitted to the larger pool of collected data once its provenance is provable. The method of maintaining and validating the signatures is encapsulated within common data format device . From time to time the method and mechanism of enforcing traceability and authenticity data integrity may be changed by use of the policy engine.

According to an exemplary embodiment common data format device converts sensor data e.g. of a proprietary data format received from sensor device to another data format defined by a schema. By way of example the schema for a sensor may include a sensor identifier a sensor type and measurement properties. The measurement properties may include granularity value and unit. Common data format device may convert raw sensor data received from sensor device to schema data defined by the schema. According to an exemplary implementation the schema is an Extensible Markup Language XML schema. According to another implementation document type definitions DTDs and or other suitable data representation formats may be used. In addition the data format may be represented in an Abstract Syntax Notation ASN.1 for example.

According to an exemplary embodiment common data format device transforms the schema data into a common data format. For example common data format device stores an ontology. Common data format device transforms the schema data into common data of the common data format by adding metadata to the schema data. The metadata supports an ontology representation. According to an exemplary implementation the ontology is represented using Resource Description Format RDF and Web Ontology Language OWL . For example the RDF defines a triple e.g. subject predicate and object according to an RDF schema. The RDF data may be annotated with semantic metadata using OWL.

The schema data may be metadata tagged with user configurable fields. For example the metadata may include metadata pertaining to who what where when why etc. By way of further example the metadata may include context information e.g. date and timestamps location owner of sensor device object type from where the data was acquired e.g. a cooling tower etc. etc. and or other types of metadata e.g. validity regulation indicator vertical type etc. that supports an objective to its use. Common data format device may obtain an instance of metadata internally or from another device e.g. a time server a third party device etc. . According to an exemplary embodiment common data format device may reformat sensor data. For example assume the sensor device includes a video camera. Common data format device may reformat a video stream to an Archive Exchange Format AXF or an MPEG format. The reformatted video stream may be metadata tagged.

According to an exemplary embodiment common data format device includes a pre analytics service. The pre analytics service may be application specific. By way of example assume that sensor data includes a video stream pertaining to a security service. The pre analytics service of common data format device may perform a video frame comparison to identify an individual. According to other examples the pre analytics service may generate an alarm if a threshold is reached transmit an emergency message at a time other than during a scheduled transfer audit or triage sensor data e.g. identify unusual data validate trustworthiness etc etc. In this regard common data format device includes a local intelligence relative to sensor device to process and use the sensor data. The pre analytics service may be configured to use any instance of data e.g. sensor data schema data and or common data .

In contradistinction to well known M2M communication systems which typically provide decision making services after sensor data is uploaded to a central repository in a network common data format device can provide near real time analysis search use etc. of the common data as well as transform the sensor data into a common data format that is conducive to a user configurable objective associated with the M2M communication system. Additionally the common data format provides a data abstraction supports an interface specification for data manipulation based on the metadata and allows for higher level data application development e.g. pre analytics analytics application enablement platforms fast queries etc. . In view of this functionality goals may be achieved more readily. For example according to the use case of the video camera at a retail location the initial ontology of the camera may be tagged by means of the common data format device to describe a security application. However this camera may also have a field of view of the weather or the retail inventory. In such cases it is possible to tag the data at the source to not only sound an alarm via a security application but also to provide a notification when the weather changes or when an inventory changes. Under existing approaches where the data is streamed or processed prior to transmission without a common data format tag there is no opportunity to utilize additional data from the sensor without transmitting all the information to a central collector e.g. a cloud network . In contrast given the capabilities of common data format device a schema and ontology of an application e.g. a weather application a retail inventory application etc. can be configured on common data format device so that data compression and local processing of the video stream can performed to allow for the detection of events that pertain to the given application space i.e. the weather application the retail inventory application etc. . Thus for example when an inventory application is configured e.g. to detect stolen merchandise then a user can directly request a certain type of data from common data format device which stores sensor data wrapped with the inventory ontology without having to sort through vast amounts of unrelated data. Additionally since common data format device may be configured with the inventory application as well as generating sensor data wrapped with the inventory ontology the user does not need to add additional sensors specifically for inventory management. Furthermore when the security camera is shut down for maintenance or other reason e.g. nefarious act etc. for example common data format device may recognize the disruption of the sensor feed and can notify multiple applications e.g. in network in real time such as the security service the weather service as well as the inventory management service. In certain situations the disruption of the continuity of a sensor feed is important to ascertain the integrity of the overall application sensor data. Common data format device may generate data indicating the disruption and or generate and transmit alarms to appropriate users and or other network devices.

According to an exemplary embodiment common data format device provides a security service. The security service may pertain to data communications and or access to common data format device . For example the security service may provide encryption decryption compression decompression data integrity checking authentication authorization establishment and maintenance of secure sessions etc. For example assume common data format device obtains healthcare related common data. The security service of common data format device may encrypt the health related common data and establish a secured virtual private network VPN connection session with network device to transmit the health related common data. Further because the common data format allows the early association of many sensors a video camera may be used in conjunction with a blood pressure monitor to provide multiple mechanisms of authentication of the patient. These multiple sensors may be used to form a unique signature of the data before it is collected in a central repository.

According to an exemplary embodiment common data format device stores common data sensor data i.e. common data and or sensor data . For example common data format device may store a database of common data sensor data. The common data sensor data stored locally allows common data format device to perform pre analytic services and or other intelligent processing pertaining to historical common data etc.

Additionally in view of the common data format there exists a data consistency between the common data stored by common data format device and the common data stored by network device in network . As a result of this consistency applications whether located locally or in network may offer users and devices advantages over existing systems in terms of data processing analytics etc. as well as on boarding new customers application development based on the common data format etc.

According to an exemplary embodiment the common data format device is implemented as a network device. For example common data format device may be implemented as a gateway device. Common data format device may reside in close proximity to sensor device . For example assume sensor device includes a vibrometer and is located on a bridge for measuring vibrations. Common data format device may also reside on the bridge. According to another exemplary embodiment the common data format device is implemented as a user device e.g. a mobile device . For example assume sensor device includes a biosensor that measures insulin or glucose levels of a person. The person may carry a smartphone that provides the functionality of common data format device as described herein. According to another exemplary embodiment the user device includes sensor device and common data format .

According to an exemplary embodiment a device e.g. a network device or a user device may include the functionality of both sensor device and common data device .

Network includes a network that provides access to an M2M service. The M2M service is based on the common data format as described herein. Network may be implemented to include a public network a private network a wired network a wireless network an Internet Protocol IP network and or other suitable type of network.

Network device includes a network device that provides the M2M service. The M2M service includes the common data format as previously described. Among other things the common data format allows the M2M service to extend to the edge of the M2M network by providing multiple complimentary functions within a single sensor type. For example a security camera may be used to measure weather account for inventory enhance guest services or other types of M2M services. During the lifetime of the sensor the ontology of the sensor and its associated M2M services may change but may be maintained by pairing the M2M service with the common data format and common data format device . Additionally in existing M2M systems a sensor device may be limited to what M2M service the sensor device can provide based on the capabilities of the supporting network. For example according to one use a video camera may be able to transmit via a supporting network difference frames relative to a video feed which require a low bandwidth. However the video camera may not be able to transmit via the supporting network a continuous video feed e.g. such as in security service because the bandwidth requirements of the supporting network are insufficient. According to an exemplary embodiment an administrator may configure common data format device to compress and or reduce the amount of bandwidth needed to transport the continuous video feed to network and in turn provide another M2M service without deploying additional sensor devices and or adding new links having higher bandwidth capacities.

Additionally the M2M service includes other services as described herein. According to an exemplary embodiment network device includes a security service. The security service may pertain to data communications and or access to network device . For example network device may authenticate and or authorize sensor device common data format device and users of the M2M service. The security service may also include the establishment and maintenance of secure sessions with other devices e.g. common data format device user device data integrity checking compression decompression encryption decryption encryption with respect to common data and other types of data. According to an exemplary embodiment network device includes a storage service that stores the common data. The storage service may store other types of data e.g. proprietary data sensor data reports etc. . According to exemplary implementation the storage service uses a database to store common data and any other types of data.

According to an exemplary embodiment network device includes an application that provides data processing and analytics services. For example network device allows for access to the common data allows for browsing searching querying of common data data processing e.g. modify data classify data etc. and data analytics e.g. interpret sensed data common data generate reports etc. . Network device may also provide a portal service that allows users to access and configure common data format device . For example the configuration of common data format device may include configuring the policies configuring the agent ontology etc. The portal service may also allow users to access process and or analyze the stored data by third party applications. For example an owner a business a company etc. of sensor devices may have a proprietary application or a commercially available application that allows the owner business company etc. to obtain process and or analyze the stored data. Additionally as previously explained network device may offer an application service that allows users to obtain review process analyze etc. common data etc. generate reports etc.

User device includes an end user device that allows a user access to the M2M service. User device may be implemented to include a smartphone a tablet device a netbook a computer or some other type of communicative device. According to an exemplary embodiment user device is capable of connecting to network device via network . User device may include common data format device and or sensor device .

The M2M service based on the common data format is described further below in view of exemplary implementations of the embodiments described herein. are diagrams that illustrate exemplary processes pertaining to the machine to machine service based on the common data format.

Referring to according to an exemplary scenario illustrative of an exemplary embodiment of the M2M service that includes the common data format assume sensor device collects sensor data. In response to collecting the sensor data sensor device initiates a communication with common data format device to transmit the sensor data. According to this example assume common data format device and sensor device are a part of a local area network LAN . Common data format device authenticates sensor device based on a sensor identifier e.g. a MAC address or other unique identifier . Upon successfully authenticating sensor device common data format device receives the sensor data from sensor device and stores the sensor data e.g. in a database . Common data format device may perform a data integrity check when storing the sensor data. The data integrity check may contain ontological based checkpoints that are specific to the M2M service being offered. For example a camera sensing the weather might have a geo location and time of year metadata tag such that the detection of snow in July in Boston is not within the acceptable limits of the data store. This out of bound data might be flagged for special treatment within the M2M system. For example a pre analytics service of common data format device may detect out of bound data values relative to a pre determined range of acceptable sensor data values.

Referring to common data format device converts the sensor data into schema data based on a format defined by a schema e.g. an XML schema . Common data format device transforms the schema data into common data of the common data format. The transformation of the schema data includes adding metadata to the schema data. The metadata supports an ontology representation. As previously described the metadata may include context data and or other types of user configurable types of data e.g. non context data etc. .

As further illustrated common data format device performs a pre analytics function. For example assume the sensor data is health related e.g. glucose levels . Common data format device may analyze the sensor data or the schema data or the common data to identify whether the sensor data exceeds a threshold value. In the event that common data format device determines that the sensor data exceeds the threshold value common data format device may perform a user configurable response e.g. prioritize the sending of the common data to network device generate an alarm communicate a command to another device to release insulin etc. . According to this example assume that the pre analytics service determines that the sensor data is within a normal range of glucose values.

Referring to common data format device and network device perform security services in relation to the transmission and storage of the common data from common data format device to network device . For example common data format device may establish a secure connection with network device such as a VPN connection. Additionally common data format device may perform additional security functions e.g. data integrity checking encryption as well as other data processing functions e.g. compression . For example in the case of health related data common data format device and or network device performs particular security measures e.g. in compliance with applicable laws when transmitting receiving and storing the common data. According to other examples of sensor data e.g. environmental readings etc. common data etc. common data format device may not perform one or more of the security services as described herein. Although not illustrated common data format device may transmit other instances of data e.g. sensor data schema data proprietary data etc. to network device .

Referring to network device stores e.g. in a database the common data received from common data format device . Network device may store e.g. in the same or a separate database other types of data e.g. sensor data metadata etc. Additionally network device provides access to use of the common data and if present other types of data. For example as illustrated network device may provide an application programming interface API a Representational State Transfer REST ful analytic and application services to expose process use analyze etc. the common data etc. For example a user of user device may transmit a request via user device and to network device for accessing common data. Network device may perform security services such as authentication and authorization. Upon successfully authenticating and authorizing user user may perform various tasks. For example user may browse e.g. a data structure such as a list a graph a tree a thumbnail e.g. a still picture video etc. the common data modify e.g. correct add append etc. the common data create e.g. store and or sign a data stub etc. data import export e.g. collect stream sort publish etc. the common data audit and triage e.g. age prioritize provenance assign a monetary cost to access the data by users e.g. fees etc. etc. the common data aggregate disaggregate the common data de identify the common data etc. User may perform the same exemplary tasks with other types of data e.g. metadata sensor data etc. . The APIs and RESTful web services of network device allow the common data the metadata etc. to be used by any application e.g. on a user device a network server etc. as well as provide access to security services e.g. govern access to data using authentication authorization govern access to common data format device etc. . According to an exemplary implementation a web service may use a Web Services Description Language WSDL model.

Referring to user may configure common data format device . For example user may want to configure common data format device with a new agent policies ontology and or database. According to an exemplary process user may transmit a request via user device and to network device for configuring one or multiple common data format devices . Network device performs security services such as authenticating and authorizing user to configure common data format device . User may be granted or denied access and the ability to configure common data format device depending on the outcome the authentication authorization process. In this example assume that authentication and authorization are successful. As illustrated user may configure common data format device with the new agent policies ontology and or database via network device . The new configuration adheres to the common data format. For example network device may authenticate each common data format device and transmit the new configuration data via a secure connection. In this way user may selectively configure common data format devices with one or multiple components.

While the above process may be considered a proactive approach to configure common data format device other approaches may be implemented. For example the configuration of common data format device may be based on a reactive approach. For example assume the configuration of common data format device is based on location service tied to a user e.g. a follow me service . For example assume a person has a sensor device e.g. a glucose reader . According to one example the user may also carry a mobile device e.g. a smartphone that is location aware. The location of the user may be provided to network device . In response network device may configure common data format device . For example if the user travels to the gas station then to a restaurant then to a store and finally back home network device may configure common data format devices that are located at the gas station the restaurant and the store. According to one implementation after the user leaves a particular location network device may de configure common data format device . However at each location common data format device obtains sensed data e.g. glucose readings . Common data format device may also provide a pre analytics service e.g. compare to a threshold glucose reading value label the sensed data as normal generate an alert to the user via the user s mobile device etc. . Common data format device may also upload common data to network device using security services as previously described.

Processor includes one or multiple processors microprocessors data processors co processors application specific integrated circuits ASICs controllers programmable logic devices chipsets field programmable gate arrays FPGAs application specific instruction set processors ASIPs system on chips SoCs central processing units e.g. one or multiple cores microcontrollers and or some other type of component that interprets and or executes instructions and or data. Processor may be implemented as hardware e.g. a microprocessor etc. a combination of hardware and software e.g. a SoC an ASIC etc. may include one or multiple memories e.g. cache etc. etc.

Processor may control the overall operation or a portion of operation s performed by device . Processor may perform one or multiple operations based on an operating system and various applications or programs e.g. software . Processor may access instructions from memory storage from other components of device and or from a source external to device e.g. a network another device etc. .

Memory storage includes one or multiple memories and or one or multiple other types of storage mediums. For example memory storage may include one or multiple types of memories such as random access memory RAM dynamic random access memory DRAM cache read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM a static random access memory SRAM a single in line memory module SIMM a phase change memory PCM a dual in line memory module DIMM a flash memory and or some other type of memory. Memory storage may include a hard disk e.g. a magnetic disk an optical disk a magneto optic disk a solid state disk etc. a Micro Electromechanical System MEMS based storage medium and or a nanotechnology based storage medium. Memory storage may include drives for reading from and writing to the storage medium.

Memory storage may be external to and or removable from device such as for example a Universal Serial Bus USB memory stick a dongle a hard disk mass storage off line storage or some other type of storing medium e.g. a compact disk CD a digital versatile disk DVD a Blu Ray disk BD etc. . Memory storage may store data software and or instructions related to the operation of device .

Software includes an application or a computer program that provides a function and or a process. Software may include firmware. For example with reference to common data format device software may include an application that when executed by processor provides the functions as described herein. Additionally for example with reference to network device software may include an application that when executed by processor provides the functions as described herein.

Communication interface permits device to communicate with other devices networks systems etc. Communication interface may include one or multiple wireless interfaces and or wired interfaces. Communication interface may include one or multiple transmitters and receivers or transceivers. Communication interface may operate according to a protocol and a communication standard.

Input permits an input into device . For example input may include a keyboard a mouse a display a touchscreen a touchless screen a button a switch an input port speech recognition logic and or some other type of visual auditory tactile etc. input component. Output permits an output from device . For example output may include a speaker a display a touchscreen a touchless screen a light an output port and or some other type of visual auditory tactile etc. output component.

Device may perform a process and or a function as described herein in response to processor executing software stored by memory storage . By way of example instructions may be read into memory storage from another memory storage not shown or read from another device not shown via communication interface . The instructions stored by memory storage may cause processor to perform a process described herein. Alternatively for example according to other implementations device may perform a process described herein based on the operation of hardware processor etc. .

Sensor communication interface includes a communication interface capable of communicating with sensor device . Senor communication interface includes a transmitter and a receiver or a transceiver logic and protocols which support a communication standard such as a wireless standard e.g. WiFi ZigBee Ultra Wide Band etc. or a wired standard e.g. IEEE 802.X etc. . In addition the interface may contain a proprietary communication interface that is capable of communicating with a proprietary non standard sensor.

Common data formatter includes logic to convert sensor data into schema data as previously described. Additionally common data formatter includes logic to convert schema data into common data as previously described. Pre analytics service includes logic to provide data processing analysis with respect to the common data as well as other instances of data e.g. sensor data schema data video data etc. as previously described. Network interface includes a communication interface capable of communicating with network device via network . Security service includes logic to provide various security services such as encryption decryption data integrity checking authentication authorization establishment and maintenance of secure connections etc.

Device manager includes logic to configure common data format device . For example device manager may update or configure various functions e.g. pre analytics service common data formatter etc. data e.g. a schema ontology etc. policies used by the policy engine etc. Device discovery and application service includes logic to onboard common data format device into the M2M framework. For example when common data format device is first turned on device discovery and application service manages the announcement of common data format device to network sensor devices and initial configurations etc. Additionally device discovery and application service includes logic to use a service provided by another device. For example as previously described assume common data format device wants to obtain data e.g. location data or data pertaining to sensor device e.g. previous repairs etc. . Device discovery and application service includes logic to obtain this data from either a third party service or another device in the M2M system.

Network service manager includes logic to manage low level communications e.g. at least below the application layer within common data format device . Data storage includes a storage device that stores data e.g. common data sensor data schema data proprietary data ontologies etc. . Device policy engine includes logic that manages applications of common data format device based on stored policies. For example device policy engine may govern what devices common data format device can communicate with quality of service parameters time periods of communication etc. based on various policies. By way of further example device policy engine may restrict device discovery and application service as to which devices can be used to obtain data. Device policy engine may also manage the activity of other components applications of common data format device .

Portal service includes logic to allow users to access the M2M services. For example portal service provides user interfaces that allow users to navigate through the available M2M services described herein. Portal service may use invoke other services e.g. analytics service security service etc. and components e.g. data storage etc. . APIs includes logic to allow third party applications to access and use the data stored in data storage .

Analytics service includes logic to provide data processing analysis with respect to common data as well as other data e.g. sensor data schema data video data etc. as previously described. For example analytics service includes logic to access search modify create de identify etc. common data as well as other data.

Network interface includes a communication interface capable of communicating with common data format device via network . Security service includes logic to provide various security services such as encryption decryption data integrity checking authentication authorization establishment and maintenance of secure connections etc. Device manager includes logic to manage the configuration of common data format device . For example device manager may manage the updating or configuring of various functions e.g. a pre analytics service etc. data e.g. a schema ontology etc. policies used by the policy engine etc. in response to user requests via portal service . Device manager may cooperatively operate with device manager to configure common data format device . Device discovery service includes logic to onboard common data format device into the M2M framework. For example when common data format device is first turned on device discovery service receives announcements from common data format device and sensor devices . Device discovery service may cooperatively operate with device discovery and application service to establish initial configuration settings etc.

Data storage includes a storage device that stores data e.g. common data sensor data schema data proprietary data an ontology etc. . Data storage may be implemented as database management system DBMS that supports among other things a data model a query language and controls data access data integrity etc. relative to the database. Data of the database may be stored in various types of data structures e.g. files records objects tables etc. . In one example data storage stores metadata of the common data format which allows multiple distributed storage items such as multiple instances of data storage that exist at multiple locations to appear within the context of network device as a single consistent storage device. The metadata of the common data format allows the M2M system e.g. network device and common data format device the ability for applications to not only synchronize data between separate physical medium such that the data is consistent replicated and available across multiple applications and physical locations but also the ability to identify a synchronization state between data storage devices. For example the synchronization state between network device and common data format device may be in an unbalanced state. By way of further example in certain instances sensor data may collect within data storage of common data format device and because of network service interruptions this sensor data may not be synchronized with data storage of network device . In this instance the metadata of the common data format can be used by common data format device e.g. pre analytics service to identify the atomic operations between these data stores e.g. data storage and data storage in such a way that common data format device is able to detect and react to the synchronization state imbalance. For example common data format device may alter its processing of the sensor data that still needs to be transmitted to network device in way that may remedy the imbalance existing in the synchronization state. As an example common data format device may change e.g. reduce the resolution of a video stream change the compression format to reduce the amount of bandwidth needed etc. to alleviate the imbalance.

Additionally the metadata of the common data format allows applications to determine the actual storage state of common data once synchronization has begun. For example a drop box service may indicate that data is available to a user before the data is actually stored. That is the drop box service may indicate the presence of a file on a drive however the actual data of the file has yet to be stored and or is in the process of being stored. Under this framework applications need to depend and use the drop box service to identify the storage state of the file. In contrast the metadata of the common data format provides a way for M2M applications e.g. pre analytics service and analytics service to identify and act upon the storage state without the need to rely on a non native service.

Described below is an exemplary process of the M2M service from the perspective of common data format device . are flow diagrams illustrating an exemplary process pertaining to the M2M service. Process is directed to a process previously described above with respect to and elsewhere in this description in which an M2M service includes the common data format. According to an exemplary embodiment common data format device performs the steps described in process . For example processor may execute software to perform the steps described.

Referring to process begins in block by establishing a connection with a simple sensor device. For example common data format device establishes a wireless or wired communication link with sensor device . Common data format device and sensor device may form a local area network a personal area network a body area network or the like.

In block a security service is performed. For example common data format device authenticates sensor device . By way of example common data format device may use an identifier associated with sensor device and or some other well known technique. Upon authenticating sensor device in block sensor data is obtained. For example common data format device receives sensor data from sensor device . The sensor data may be in a proprietary format relative to sensor device .

In block the device discovery and application service is notified. For example a notification is made of the availability of the sensor data to device discovery and application service of common data format device .

In block the future availability of the sensor data is published to a network. For example device discovery and application service of common data format device notifies device discovery service of the availability of the sensor data stored in data storage of common data format device . For example a sensor reading in data storage is announced to network device but is not readily available directly within network device but will be made available per some schedule which is also part of the common data format. By way of further example common data format device e.g. device discovery and application service generates a pre availability message that indicates the pending availability of data. The pre availability message may also include the anticipated size of the data the ontology of the data the anticipated schedule to transmit the data etc. Common data format device transmits the pre availability message to network device . Per an event schedule the data is replicated into data storage according to the needs of analytic services and or other portal services . In addition pre analytics service of common data format is made aware of the data located within data storage by means of the metadata in data storage in conjunction with device discovery and application service within common data format device such that additional information can be encapsulated within the metadata of the device policy engine . This enables for example distributed data storage functions across one or more common data format devices within environment .

According to an exemplary use case this notification may occur in the early stage of data acquisition processing to enable a potential user of the M2M system to anticipate or to mark an interest in the availability of the sensor data e.g. stored in common data format device . Additionally the potential user may make his her interest in the sensor data known to network device e.g. via a request . The M2M service may in turn configure the resources of network device to prioritize a transmission of the sensor data the common data etc. from data storage to data storage .

In block the sensor data is converted into schema data that is defined by a schema. For example common data format device converts the sensor data into schema data defined by an XML schema. The XML schema may include any user configurable schema based on the sensor data received and other data e.g. type of sensor device e.g. model number make manufacturer etc. capabilities of sensor device e.g. precision accuracy resolution etc. last calibration sensor life time in field historical data relating to sensor device e.g. past repair etc. etc. which may be stored by common data format device or accessible to common data format device e.g. hosted by another device . By way of example the XML schema may include a schema that includes a sensor identifier a measurement value and a measurement unit.

In block the schema data is converted into common data based on an ontology. For example common data format device selects an ontology based on sensor data and or schema data. By way of further example common data format device selects the ontology based on a sensor identifier. Common data format device adds metadata that supports the ontology. As an example the ontology is represented using Resource Description Format RDF and Web Ontology Language OWL . For example the RDF defines a triple e.g. subject predicate and object according to an RDF schema. The RDF data may be annotated with semantic metadata using OWL.

Referring to in block a pre analytics service is performed. For example common data format device includes intelligence to perform a function relative to data e.g. the common data the sensor data the schema data . The function may include analyzing the data filtering the data generating an alarm etc. as previously described.

In block the common data is transmitted to a remote network device via a network. For example common data format device transmits the common data to network device via network . As previously described common data format device may perform data processing e.g. compression etc. as well as invoke security services e.g. encrypt data integrity checking establishing a secure connection etc. . After the data has been successfully uploaded to network device network interface publishes a notification to other components within common data format device by means of device policy engine that the data is available in data storage of network device . Additionally in response to the successful transmission and data stored elsewhere various components within common data format device may release the resources used within common data format device . However common data format device may store all or a portion of the data in data storage for further reference as needed by items within the common data format device . For example the common data format may include a user interest field that indicates an interest in a local copy of the data. According to an exemplary implementation the user interest field may act as a counter. In this way when the counter is at a zero value common data format device may determine not to locally store the data. Process ends.

Although illustrate an exemplary M2M process according to other embodiments process may include additional operations fewer operations and or different operations than those illustrated in as described herein. For example common data format device stores common data etc. in a database. In this way in the event that access to network device is not possible a user and or an application may have available the common data the sensor data the schema data and other instances of data e.g. proprietary relative to a sensor area serviced by sensor device . Additionally since a consistency between data stored at common data format device and network exists due to the common data format the distributed nature of this framework offers various benefits in terms of service expansion application development etc.

Described below is an exemplary process of the M2M service from the perspective of the network. is a flow diagram illustrating another exemplary process pertaining to the M2M service. Process is directed to a process previously described above with respect to and elsewhere in this description in which an M2M service stores common data and provides access and use of the common data. According to an exemplary embodiment network device performs the steps described in process . For example processor may execute software to perform the steps described.

Referring to process begins in block by establishing a connection with a common data format device via a network. For example network device establishes a wireless or wired communication link with common data format device via network .

In block the availability of data is announced. For example common data format device notifies network device of new data. In response network device may notify particular common data format devices of the future availability of data e.g. common data etc. in data storage .

In block a security service is performed. For example network device authenticates common data format device . By way of example common data format device may use an identifier associated with common data format device and or some other well known technique.

In block common data is obtained. For example network device obtains and stores the common data in a database. Depending on what the common data pertains e.g. health related energy related etc. the database may constitute a regulated database e.g. health related etc. in which federal and or state laws may be applicable or an unregulated database. As previously described network device includes a database management system DBMS .

In block the availability of the data is announced. For example in response to storing the common data network device announces the presence of the common data in data storage . Analytics service of network device may choose to use common data stored in data storage and or common data stored in data storage . According to an exemplary implementation the common data previously stored in common data format device may be deleted once the common data is stored in network device . According to such an implementation the M2M service of common data format device may need to be configured to preserve the common data at common data format device when an interest field pertaining to the common data has an interest value that is non zero.

In block access and use of the common data is provided. For example as previously described network device includes an application that provides data processing and analytics services. For example network device allows for access to the common data allow for browsing searching querying of common data data processing e.g. modify data classify data etc. and data analytics e.g. interpret sensed data common data generate reports etc. . Additionally as previously described the APIs and RESTful web services of network device allow the common data the metadata etc. to be used by any application e.g. on a user device a network server etc. as well as provide access to security services.

Although illustrates an exemplary M2M process according to other embodiments process may include additional operations fewer operations and or different operations than those illustrated in and described herein.

The foregoing description of embodiments provides illustration but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the embodiments to the precise form disclosed. Accordingly modifications to the embodiments described herein may be possible.

The terms a an and the are intended to be interpreted to include one or more items. Further the phrase based on is intended to be interpreted as based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise. The term and or is intended to be interpreted to include any and all combinations of one or more of the associated items.

In addition while series of blocks have been described with regard to the processes illustrated in the order of the blocks may be modified according to other embodiments. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel. Additionally other processes described in this description may be modified and or non dependent operations may be performed in parallel.

The embodiments described herein may be implemented in many different forms of software and or firmware executed by hardware. For example a process or a function may be implemented as logic or as a component. The logic or the component may include for example hardware e.g. processor etc. or a combination of hardware and software e.g. software . The embodiments have been described without reference to the specific software code since the software code can be designed to implement the embodiments based on the description herein and commercially available software design environments languages.

In the preceding specification various embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive.

In the specification and illustrated by the drawings reference is made to an exemplary embodiment an embodiment embodiments etc. which may include a particular feature structure or characteristic in connection with an embodiment s . However the use of the phrase or term an embodiment embodiments etc. in various places in the specification does not necessarily refer to all embodiments described nor does it necessarily refer to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments necessarily mutually exclusive of other embodiment s . The same applies to the term implementation implementations etc.

Additionally embodiments described herein may be implemented as a non transitory storage medium that stores data and or information such as instructions program code data structures program modules an application etc. A non transitory storage medium includes one or more of the storage mediums described in relation to memory storage .

To the extent the aforementioned embodiments collect store or employ personal information provided by individuals it should be understood that such information shall be used in accordance with all applicable laws concerning protection of personal information. Additionally the collection storage and use of such information may be subject to consent of the individual to such activity for example through well known opt in or opt out processes as may be appropriate for the situation and type of information. Storage and use of personal information may be in an appropriately secure manner reflective of the type of information for example through various encryption and anonymization techniques for particularly sensitive information.

No element act or instruction described in the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the embodiments described herein unless explicitly described as such.

