---

title: Methods, systems and apparatus for displaying the multimedia information from wireless communication networks
abstract: Video signals for a mobile terminal are converted to accommodate reproduction by an alternative display terminal. The video signal is processed to provide a converted video signal appropriate for an alternative display terminal that is separate from the mobile terminal. This converted video signal is then provided for the alternative display terminal to accommodate the corresponding video display on a screen provided by the alternative (e.g., external) display terminal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09355611&OS=09355611&RS=09355611
owner: Virginia Innovation Sciences, Inc
number: 09355611
owner_city: Alexandria
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160117
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 795 616 filed on Jul. 9 2015 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 551 024 filed on Nov. 23 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 479 568 filed on Sep. 8 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 177 396 filed on Feb. 11 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 845 171 filed on Mar. 18 2013 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 495 890 filed Jun. 13 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 397 156 filed Feb. 15 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 268 001 filed on Oct. 7 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 929 408 filed on Jan. 21 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 165 341 filed on Jun. 24 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 899 492 issued Mar. 1 2011 which claims the benefit of provisional application Ser. No. 60 588 358 filed on Jul. 16 2004 and entitled A Method and System for Displaying the Multimedia Information from Wireless Communications or Portable IT Devices. The entire contents of these applications are hereby incorporated by reference.

This invention relates generally to mobile terminals and related technology and more particularly to mobile terminal signal conversion for external display.

Handheld mobile terminals e.g. cellular phones personal digital assistants PDA continue to evolve both in terms of execution platform and functionality. It is believed that the much of the functionality provided by a personal computer e.g. desktop or laptop will ultimately become virtually available in handheld mobile terminals which will allow users to work with and access multimedia information any time and anywhere.

For example one particularly appealing advantage of the next generation wireless communication system and beyond i.e. 3G 4G etc. is the capacity to support high rate multimedia data services as well as conventional voice services. In a conventional cellular system a mobile terminal communicates with a base station wirelessly. Multimedia information including but not limited to television 3D images network games and video phone calls is transmitted from various service providers and received for display on the screen of a mobile terminal. The net result of such a system is rich multimedia information being destined for display on the small screens typical of cellular phones or the like .

In these and similar systems the mobile terminal functions as a multimedia terminal to display multimedia information including high resolution graphics and high quality real time audio video sent from high data rate wireless communications network. The limited size e.g. 2 3 and capability of the mobile terminal screen may render enjoyment of the high rate data flow applications inconvenient and in some instances useless. One consequence of this inadequacy is likely shrinkage of the potential market size for handheld mobile terminals. Indeed some have suggested that development of high data rate systems such as 3G systems may be pointless given the limitations imposed by the small screen.

Some mobile units appear to provide a remote control function to an external display system. However these do not appear to solve the small screen problem outlined above. That is they do not accommodate display on a larger external display of video and other multimedia information originally destined for the mobile terminal display screen.

For example one such interface accommodates usage of the mobile terminal as a remote control for a television by feeding programming guide information to the mobile terminal. This is useful for allowing the programming guide to be viewed locally while the larger screen displays a current program but does not address to the above described small screen problem.

Although mobile terminals have been developed to include enhanced signal processing and related capabilities user enjoyment is diminished by the limitations of the display provided with such mobile terminals. What is needed is a solution to the problem of diminished user enjoyment of mobile terminals because of display limitations.

In accordance with the present invention the multimedia signal destined for the mobile terminal is converted and provided to an external display system so that the corresponding video and or audio may be reproduced using the external system.

It is believed that this feature will be useful in various environments including but not limited to transportation environments such as planes trains and automobiles hotels waiting areas and any location where high data rate services can be more fully supported by external display terminals.

According to one aspect processing signals for reproduction by an external display terminal includes receiving a video signal that accommodates a video display on a first screen provided by the mobile terminal. The video signal is then processed to provide a converted video signal appropriate for an external display terminal that is separate from the mobile terminal. This converted video signal is then provided for the external display terminal to accommodate the corresponding video display on a screen provided by the external display terminal.

The present invention can be embodied in various forms including business processes computer implemented methods computer program products computer systems and networks user interfaces application programming interfaces and the like.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous details are set forth such as flowcharts and system configurations in order to provide an understanding of one or more embodiments of the present invention. However it is and will be apparent to one skilled in the art that these specific details are not required in order to practice the present invention.

Mobile terminal signal conversion accommodates displaying the high rate data flow multimedia information available in a wireless communication environment in an external device. This accommodates true realization and enjoyment of the benefits of the multimedia content.

In one example the multimedia information is provided to a wireless mobile terminal using so called next generation cellular technology i.e. 3G and 4G which can be employed in transmitting multimedia information e.g. rich graphics real time audio video . Because of the relatively small screen size and low quality ear phones for many applications the mobile terminal cannot adequately reproduce the high quality multimedia information that can be communicated using next generation technology with adequate clarity and satisfaction. Mobile terminal signal conversion in accordance with this embodiment of the present invention makes usage of a separate multimedia display terminal including but not limited to a monitor television set projector or LCD display. These displays typically have video and audio reproduction capabilities that are superior to those found on mobile terminals. They also use a power supply that is separate from the mobile terminal.

Still referring to the system illustrated in multimedia information may be provided by any number of service providers and delivered through a network to a base station to ultimately accommodate transmission of the multimedia information among other things to a cellular phone . This system is provided by way of example and it should be understood that any conventional or to be developed technology for delivering voice and or data to mobile terminals may be provided. These wireless communication networks include but are not limited to a cellular communications network or a wireless local area network.

Also illustrated is a typical external display system . This may also be variously provided and may be digital or analog. Examples of digital systems include HDTV LCD and plasma. Examples of analog systems include television sets that implement standards such as NTSC PAL SECAM and analog computer monitors SVGA VGA . The external display system does not have the size constraints of the display screen on the cellular phone and is preferably powered independently.

In the illustrated embodiment a mobile terminal signal conversion module MTSCM resides within a separate housing outside the cellular phone .

The functionality of the MTSCM is now further described with concurrent reference to and the flow diagram of .

The MTSCM processes signals to accommodate reproduction by an external device. Specifically a multimedia signal is transmitted to the cellular phone through the wireless communications network as previously described step . The multimedia signal may include a video signal intended for reproduction by the cellular phone using the cellular phone display screen. For ease of description processing of a video signal is described although it should be understood that any multimedia signal or component thereof may be converted in accordance with the present invention.

The cellular phone is connected to the MTSCM . This may be accommodated by a cable connection that interfaces the cellular phone to the MTSCM housing . Through this connection the MTSCM receives the video signal from the cellular phone step . The video signal as received may be configured to accommodate a video display on the screen provided by the cellular phone . The cable connection is an example of a wired connection interfacing the cellular phone to the MTSCM . An alternative wired connection is a seat that directly interfaces the two without a cable. A wireless connection may also be provided although it may currently be less practical to provide than the wired connection because of the potential for high throughput rate requirements. The wireless connection may also implement any conventional known technology including but not limited to a Bluetooth connection.

The MTSCM processes the video signal to provide a converted video signal that has a display format and or signal power level appropriate for an external display terminal that is separate from the cellular phone step . The display format and or signal power level of the external display terminal may be different from that of the cellular phone but there may also be embodiments where the format is the same. Even if the formats are the same conversion of the signals to accommodate display on the external display terminal would still be implemented to adjust the power level for driving the external display and possibly to minimize throughput requirements. This signal conversion is described further with reference to below.

Still referring to following signal conversion the MTSCM provides the converted video signal to the external display terminal to accommodate the corresponding video display on a screen provided by the external display terminal step . This may be accommodated through a connection between the MTSCM housing and the external display terminal as shown.

As used herein mobile terminal refers to typically handheld mobile devices such as cellular phones and personal digital assistants. Although these devices include an execution platform as well as input and display capabilities such devices are distinguished from personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers which are not designed for convenient handheld usage.

Where the MTSCM is provided as software it operates in the context of an execution platform. That is the MTSCM includes instructions that are stored in memory for execution by a processor. Any conventional or to be developed execution platform may be used. The processor memory and related elements such as a power supply are well known and need not be described herein to convey an understanding of the invention. Additionally illustrates one modular breakdown for the components of the MTSCM . It should be understood that the described functionality may alternatively be provided by an MTSCM having fewer greater or differently named modules from those illustrated in the figure.

Additionally although modules as shown to reside in a common location it is noted that the functionality may reside in separate components of a system that includes a mobile terminal an external monitor and optionally an intermediate device housing the MTSCM and interfacing the mobile terminal and external monitor. In other words the overall functionality of the MTSCM may be separated such that portions of the overall functionality are respectively provided by the mobile terminal separate intermediate housing and or the external display device.

The MTSCM may also be provided in the form of a chipset configured for inclusion in a mobile terminal dedicated separate signal conversion device or external display terminal and to provide the described mobile terminal signal conversion functionality.

The MTSCM includes a mobile terminal interface module a signal conversion module and an external device interface module .

The mobile terminal interface module accommodates receiving the multimedia signal from the mobile terminal. A conventional physical interface provides a connection between the MTSCM and the mobile terminal through which the signals flow to the MTSCM . The mobile terminal interface module recognizes the multimedia signal and stores the signal for processing by the remaining modules. Buffering and the like may be implemented to accommodate storage and signal processing as described further below.

The signal conversion module is in communication with the mobile terminal interface module and thus accesses the received multimedia signal. The signal conversion module recognizes the multimedia signal format and processes the multimedia signal to provide a converted signal. The converted signal may have a format and a signal power level that differs from the one used by the mobile terminal as appropriate for one or more types of external devices to which the MTSCM is connected. Various examples of the type of devices to which the MTSCM may be connected are illustrated and described in connection with below.

The external device interface is in communication with the signal conversion module and thus accesses the converted signal. The external device interface also allows connection to the external e.g. display device. The external device interface may provide both the feeding of the converted signal to the external device and driving the external device. Alternatively the external device interface may merely feed the converted signal to the external device with the external device including internal elements for driving its signal reproduction e.g. display facilities.

The MTSCM includes an interface buffer module that is analogous to the previously described mobile terminal interface module. The buffer and interfacing are configured to accommodate signal processing by the remaining elements in support of the requirements and expectations of users of the multimedia signal output e.g. adequate buffering and processing rate to provide real time audio video . The mobile terminal video compression format may of course vary but currently the most likely format is MPEG 1 or MPEG 2. Buffering and throughput rate may also be provided as desired by the designer. Currently it is believed that 200 Mb is an adequate buffer size although buffers of 500 Mb or more may of course be provided. Additionally a throughput rate of approximately 10 Gb s will be adequate for many current systems but may be increased as demands and technology evolve.

The Video Compress Decoder receives the multimedia signal. The multimedia signal is typically provided in a compressed format to accommodate increased signal transfer rates. An example of a compression scheme is that provided by one of the MPEG standards e.g. MPEG 1 MPEG 2 MPEG 4 . The Video Compress Decoder is configured to include the appropriate compression decompression CODEC module to accommodate decompression of the received multimedia signal. For example where the compression scheme is MPEG the Video Compress Decoder includes an MPEG CODEC to accommodate processing of such multimedia signals.

As an alternative to provision of the Video Compress Decoder in the MTSCM the functionality may be provided within the cellular phone or other mobile terminal. However this may be less practical because of the high bandwidth that would be required between the cellular phone and the MTSCM to deliver the decompressed signal and the corresponding likelihood of a larger buffer requirement for the MTSCM .

The Video Compress Decoder outputs a decompressed digital multimedia signal that is passed to the Digital Analog Video Encoder DAVE and or the Digital Digital Video Encoder DDVE . The DAVE is configured to prepare signals for analog external display terminals and the DDVE is configured to prepare signals for digital external display terminals . The DAVE and DDVE respectively receive the decompressed multimedia signal and convert the signals to the format s and signal power level s required for the terminals to which they interface.

Examples of formats used by analog display terminals include S video RGBHV RGBS and EIA770.3 as illustrated. Similarly the DDVE provides output using standards such as DVI DVI D HDMI and IEEE1394. The signals respectively provided by the DAVE and DDVE are provided to the terminals through conventional interfaces . The DAVE functionality may be embodied as a video card that is configured accordingly. Examples of video cards that may be configured to provide the described functionality include but are not limited to the Diamond Stealth S60 ASUS V9400 X or RADEON 7000.

Ultimately the signals are used to provide a display on the external display as required according to the particular type of display. For example the video data stream may be a digital RGB signal which represents the intensity of the red green and blue light respectively at different position. This signal is converted to analog by a D A converter. This converted analog signal is quantified to the voltage and format required by the standard such as the input of cathode ray tube CRT monitor. This standard video signal will drive a set of electron guns which produce a controlled stream of electrons to display of red green and blue light respectively on a CRT screen. This is but one example and the present invention is not limited to a particular technology e.g. CRT for the external display.

As described in one embodiment the MTSCM may be independently housed separately from both the mobile terminal and external display terminal with respective connections to the other devices to provide a system configuration that includes the three pieces of hardware mobile terminal conversion box external display terminal . This configuration provides the flexibility of allowing any standard mobile terminal and or display to be potentially interface with the MTSCM without imposing constraints on the mobile terminal or external display terminal manufacturers. A possible drawback to this configuration is that additional hardware is introduced into the system.

In lieu of the three component system the MTSCM may be located in either the mobile terminal or the external display. is a schematic diagram illustrates an example of a system in which the MTSCM mobile terminal signal conversion may reside within the mobile terminal . The components and functionality of the service providers network and base station for delivering multimedia signals to the mobile terminal is the same as for the analogous elements of and need not be re described. Similarly the external display terminal may be any of the various types named above.

The MTSCM provides the same functionality described above. However in contrast to residence in a separate housing the MTSCM is a component of the mobile terminal . A potential advantage of this system is that again any standard equipment can serve as an external display terminal without a constraint on the display manufacturer. Additionally only a simple wired or wireless interface is required to connect the external display with the mobile terminal . This means for example that the user will not be required to carry a bulky conversion module in addition to their cellular phone.

A potential drawback to this system is that the execution platform of the mobile terminal may be designed to accommodate only traditional functionality so for some systems it may be challenging to add the MTSCM functionality to the existing platform. Additionally the MTSCM will consume power that may unduly exhaust the limited power supply offered by the mobile terminal battery. It is useful for this embodiment to provide power to the mobile terminal through the cable connection to the external display terminal but again this may require modification to the mobile terminal as the existing charger interface may be insufficient.

Here the mobile terminal need only be connected directly to the external display terminal . However in lieu of having the MTSCM functionality reside within the mobile terminal it is part of the external display terminal . The power supply and execution platform issues associated with placing the MTSCM in the mobile terminal are resolved with this system and any mobile terminal can potentially be connected to any MTSCM ready external display without requiring modification other than provision of an output interface. A potential drawback of this configuration is that it adds a component to the standard external display terminal and corresponding costs.

The basic architecture for provision of the wireless communications signal and corresponding multimedia signal is as described above for the service providers network base station and mobile terminal . The MTSCM may be separate or reside in the mobile terminal or display terminal . Examples of applications where a larger screen and potentially superior audio may be enjoyed include video conference HDTV games GPS and video on demand. Additionally embodiments of the present invention will accommodate enjoyment of full multimedia capability in locations including vehicles airports hotels and remote resorts. Thus for example the present invention accommodates usage inside a vehicle a plane or any type of transportation enabling the passenger to browse the Internet watch TV play games participate in a video conference or call and work on all sorts of software with full functionality.

Thus embodiments of the present invention produce and provide mobile terminal signal conversion. Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain embodiments thereof the invention may be variously embodied without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Therefore the following claims should not be limited to the description of the embodiments contained herein in any way.

