---

title: Extended access barring
abstract: A system and method for authorizing access to a transmission station for a mobile device is disclosed. The mobile device can receive device extended access barring (EAB) configuration information in a broadcast control channel (BCCH) from a transmission station. The mobile device can bar the mobile device configured for EAB and having characteristics identified in the EAB configuration information for barring from accessing the transmission station. Alternatively, a system and method for barring a mobile device from accessing a transmission station is disclosed. The transmission station can receive from the mobile device a radio resource control (RRC) connection establishment request. The transmission station can configure a system information block (SIB) with extended access barring (EAB) configuration information. The transmission station can broadcast the SIB with EAB configuration information to the mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09655029&OS=09655029&RS=09655029
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09655029
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160111
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 994 117 filed Dec. 30 2013 which is a 371 Nationalization of U.S. PCT Application No. PCT US11 66918 filed Dec. 22 2011 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 522 622 filed Aug. 11 2011 each of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a transmission station and a wireless mobile device. Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM combined with a desired digital modulation scheme via a physical layer. Standards and protocols that use OFDM include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.

In 3GPP LTE the Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN include of transmission stations also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs E UTRAN NodeBs eNodeBs or eNBs which communicates with the wireless mobile device known as a user equipment UE . A downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the transmission station or eNodeB to the wireless mobile device or UE and an uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless mobile device to the transmission station. Furthermore the transmission station can be connected to the Mobility Management Entity MME located in the core network by means of the S1 interface.

Another technology for mobile communication is a universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS which is a 3GPP mobile cellular technology for networks using code division multiple access CDMA . In UMTS the transmission station can be a combination of Node Bs also commonly denoted as NodeBs or NBs and radio network controllers RNCs which communicates with the wireless mobile device known as the UE. UMTS can specify a network system covering the UMTS terrestrial radio access network UTRAN a core network including a mobile application part MAP and an authentication of users via subscriber identity module SIM cards. The RNCs can be connected to the core network by means of the Iu interface.

Under certain circumstances known as access barring a transmission station can prevent or restrict mobile device users from making access attempts which can include emergency call attempts or responding to pages in specified areas of a public land mobile network PLMN . Such situations can include states of emergency or failure of one or more co located PLMNs. Access class barring ACB can be used to prevent mobile devices from making access attempts to the transmission station in LTE systems and UMTS.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Access barring such as access class barring ACB and extended access barring EAB allows a transmission station to broadcast messages which can prevent or restrict mobile device users from making access attempts at the transmission station. Broadcast messages can be available on a cell by cell basis indicating the class es or categories of subscribers barred from network access. Access barring allows a network operator to prevent overload of the radio access network and core network.

In an example mobile devices can be members of one out of ten randomly allocated mobile populations defined as access classes 0 to 9. A population number can be stored in a subscriber identity module or subscriber identification module SIM or universal subscriber identity module USIM . In addition mobile devices may be members of one or more special categories e.g. access classes 11 to 15 also held in the SIM USIM. The special categories can be allocated to specific high priority users. Class 15 can be allocated to public land mobile networks PLMNs staff class 14 can be allocated to emergency services class 13 can be allocated to public utilities e.g. water gas suppliers class 12 can be allocated to security services and class 11 can be allocated for PLMN use.

In ACB if the mobile device is a member of at least one access class which corresponds to permitted classes as signaled over an air interface and the access class is applicable in the serving network access attempts may be allowed. Classes 0 9 can be allowed in home public land mobile networks PLMNs and visited PLMNs VPLMNs . Classes 11 and 15 can be allowed in a home PLMN HPLMN if an equivalent home PLMN EHPLMN list is not present or any EHPLMN. Classes 12 13 or 14 can be allowed in the HPLMN and VPLMNs of a home country. A home country can be the country of the mobile country code MCC part of the international mobile subscriber identity IMSI . Any number of these classes may be barred at any one time.

EAB can provide additional access barring over ACB. Extended access barring EAB can include a mechanism for the operator s e.g. network operators to control mobile originating access attempts from mobile devices configured for EAB in order to prevent overload of the access network and or the core network. In congestion situations the operator can restrict access from mobile devices configured for EAB while permitting access from other mobile devices. Mobile devices configured for EAB can be considered more tolerant to access restrictions than other mobile devices. The network can broadcast information to provide EAB control for mobile devices in a specific area when an operator or some automated process determines to apply EAB such as an overload condition or other triggering event.

A large number of machine type communication MTC devices and or machine to machine M2M devices may access a radio access network RAN . As used herein MTC and M2M may be used interchangeably. The MTC devices may overload the RAN and core network CN supporting the RAN. EAB can provide overload control and protection of a network including the RAN and the CN by allowing the network to bar the access of low priority and or delay tolerant MTC devices when the network e.g. the RAN or the core network is overloaded. As used herein delay tolerant and low priority may be used interchangeably.

A mobile device configured for EAB can be categorized based on the mobile device s roaming category a mobile device s relationship to the PLMN which supports a transmission station . The transmission station in the RAN of the PLMN can use a broadcast control channel BCCH to broadcast EAB information to mobiles devices. The EAB information on the BCCH can indicate which category of mobile devices configured with EAB can apply EAB. Mobile devices configured with EAB can check their categories e.g. category A B or C discussed below in order to determine whether or not to apply EAB.

EAB can bar different types or categories of mobile devices than ACB and or EAB can provide different barring mechanisms than ACB. EAB may be configured for delay tolerant access mobile devices such as MTC mobile devices instead of all mobile devices in ACB. Mobile devices configured for EAB can be more tolerant to access restrictions e.g. delay tolerant than other mobile devices. EAB can be used to handle roamers or mobile devices operating outside a HPLMN and or EHPLMN. For a mobile device configured with EAB EAB may take precedence over ACB.

Accessing barring information can be transmitted in the BCCH using a system information block SIB . System information in LTE systems and UTMS can be separated into the master information block MIB and a number of SIBs. Each MIB and SIB can include a specified type of information. For example in LTE the MIB can include physical layer information and SIB type 1 SIB1 can include access restrictions and SIB scheduling information. Certain system information e.g. MIB or SIB1 may be a prerequisite i.e. read to extract or read other system information or SIBs. Common and shared channel information in a SIB type 2 SIB2 can be used in a random access procedure or a random access channel RACH .

For cell search and selection in LTE systems the mobile device can read the physical broadcast channel PBCH in the physical layer and extracts the information from the MIB. The MIB can carry important system information which can be submitted by the logical broadcast control channel BCCH in the radio link control layer via the broadcast channel BCH in the medium access control MAC layer mapped onto the PBCH. With the information from the MIB the mobile device can be informed about the transmission bandwidth configuration in downlink of the cell. Other SIBs can provide system information sent via Physical Downlink Shared Channel PDSCH .

ACB information can be broadcast via the SIB2. ACB parameters can be subjected to a SIB modification procedure and timing. A change of ACB parameters can change a SIB modification value such as SIB systemInfoValueTag. Two modification periods e.g. a SIB change notification period and SIB updated information period may be used for a change to take effect. The modification period can take as long as 40.96 seconds sec 16 256 frames e.g. modification period modificationPeriodCoeff defaultPagingCycle .

MTC devices can be numerous in a cell or the RAN. With MTC usage a large number of MTC mobile devices can have bursty access to the transmission station which can overload the transmission station and or the network. In an example the bursty access of the MTC devices can overload the transmission station and or the network within one or two modification periods before the network can adapt to the overload. In an overload condition the random access channel RACH may be overloaded which may block access of a normal priority mobile device non delay tolerant access mobile device non low priority access mobile device or high priority mobile device for a substantial period of time. Normal priority mobile devices can have blocked access because other mobile devices transmissions may interfere with the transmission station s reception of normal priority mobile devices RACH so the transmission station cannot decode the transmission.

EAB can be used to limit the access of delay tolerant access devices such as MTC mobile devices. Delay tolerant access can be access that is subject to EAB. EAB can be applied at the mobile device and or transmission station and supported by the RAN and core network. EAB configuration information can be broadcasted via a channel such as BCCH from the transmission station and received by the mobile device. A system information block SIB can include the EAB configuration information. In an example the EAB configuration information can be broadcast on an existing SIB such as SIB type 2 SIB2 in an LTE system or SIB type 3 SIB3 in an UMTS. Alternatively the EAB configuration information can be broadcast on a dedicated or new SIB for EAB such as SIB type 14 SIB14 in the LTE system or SIB type 21 SIB21 in the UMTS. Although the dedicated SIB for EAB can include EAB configuration information the dedicated SIB for EAB may also include information not related to EAB. For LTE systems the number 14 is used for the dedicated SIB for EAB SIB14 for clarity and simplicity of illustrations but any number representing a dedicated SIB for EAB can be used. Similarly for UTMS the number 21 is used for the dedicated SIB for EAB SIB21 for clarity and simplicity of illustrations but any number representing a dedicated SIB for EAB can be used.

The mobile device can become aware of a presence or a change in the EAB configuration information broadcast by the transmission station in various procedures or methods. In an example the mobile device can acquire up to date EAB configuration information periodically in a dedicated SIB or existing SIB. A dedicated SIB for EAB such as SIB14 in LTE may be updated more frequently than the modification period allowing for a more dynamic modification of SIBs and EAB configuration information. In another example the mobile device can acquire EAB configuration information in a SIB such as the dedicated SIB for EAB before attempting radio resource control RRC connection establishment for delay tolerant access. In another example EAB configuration information can be included in a paging notification from the transmission station to the mobile device to indicate a presence of EAB configuration information. After the EAB configuration information is received the mobile device can apply an access barring check process for EAB which can also include processes for ACB.

The mobile device can convey or provide EAB configuration information such as the mobile device s EAB category EAB classification or roaming category to the transmission station including an eNB for the LTE system and an RNC for the UMTS during the RRC connection establishment. In an example the mobile device can indicate the mobile device s EAB configuration and roaming category in a RRC connection request message. In another example the mobile device s EAB configuration can be implied by the RRC connection establishment cause request without indicating the mobile device s EAB configuration and or roaming category in the RRC connection request message.

The LTE system can provide an access barring overload mechanism for EAB between the transmission station of the RAN and a mobility management entity MME of the core network CN via a S1 interface. In an example the transmission station can receive EAB configuration information from the mobile device as part of RRC connection request message. When the transmission station receives an overload indication from the MME or when transmission station determines that the RAN is overloaded the transmission station can configure a SIB with EAB configuration information and reject the RRC connection request from the mobile device. In another example the transmission station may not receive EAB configuration information from the mobile device as part of RRC connection request message. When the transmission station receives an overload indication from the MME or when transmission station determines that the RAN is overloaded the transmission station can configure a SIB with EAB configuration information without rejecting a RRC connection request from the mobile device.

The UMTS can provide an access barring overload mechanism for EAB between the transmission station including the RNC of the RAN and the core network CN via an Iu PS interface. An existing priority class indicator may be used to define EAB. Alternatively a dedicated or new EAB indicator can be used to define EAB.

The following provides additional details of the examples. A transmission station can authorize a mobile device to access the transmission station using EAB. The mobile device can receive EAB configuration information in a BCCH from the transmission station. illustrates an example of a transmission station broadcasting the EAB configuration information in the BCCH to the plurality of mobile devices A D A B A C A B A D A F A F and A D. Delay tolerant mobile devices or mobile devices configured for EAB A B A C A B A F A F and A D can acquire the EAB configuration information from a SIB in the BCCH. SIBs can be used to convey system information in LTE systems and UMTS.

In an example the EAB configuration information can be carried in an existing SIB such as a SIB2 for an LTE system along with ACB information. For LTE systems ACB can be broadcast in the SIB2. SIB may be changed each modification period so dynamic changes of EAB configuration information may not be supported when EAB configuration information is carried in an existing SIB such as SIB2.

The EAB configuration information can include a barring category a barring factor and or a barring time. For example SystemInformationBlockType2 field descriptions can include an eab BarringCategory an eab BarringFactor and or an eab Barring Time.

The barring category can also be referred to as a roaming category. In an eab BarringCategory example each bit can represent the category or EAB category of mobile devices or UEs where EAB is applied. The first bit or a leftmost bit in can indicate mobile devices that are configured for EAB or category A . The second bit can indicate mobile devices that are configured for EAB and are neither in the mobile device s HPLMN nor in a PLMN equivalent to the mobile s device s HPLMN EHPLMN or category B . The third bit can indicate mobile devices that are configured for EAB and are neither in the PLMN listed as most preferred PLMN of the country where the mobile s device is roaming in an operator defined PLMN selector list on the SIM USIM nor in the mobile device s HPLMN nor in a PLMN that is equivalent to the mobile s device s HPLMN or category C .

A public land mobile network PLMN can include a network established and operated by a regulatory body an administration or a recognized private operating agency RPOA for a specific purpose of providing land mobile communication services to the public. A relationship can exist between each subscriber and the subscriber s home PLMN HPLMN . If communications are handled over another PLMN the other PLMN can be referred to as a visited PLMN VPLMN . A PLMN may provide service in one or a combination of frequency bands. A PLMN can be defined by borders of a country. More than one PLMN can exist in a country. The PLMN area can be the geographical area in which a PLMN provides communication services.

If eab BarringForMO r11 is included in the SIB IE extended access barring may be applied for mobile originating calls from mobile devices configured for EAB.

The barring factor can include a value on which access to a transmission station by mobile device can be determined. For an eab BarringFactor example the mobile device may generate a random number. If the random number drawn by the mobile device is lower than the barring factor value access to the transmission station may be allowed. Otherwise access to the transmission station can be barred. In another example the values of the random number can be interpreted in the range 0 1 and the barring factor value can be a percentage where p00 0 0 p05 5 0.05 p10 10 0.10 . . . p95 95 0.95. For example a p50 eab BarringFactor indicates that approximately 50 of a category A B or C as generated by each mobile device s random number generator may be barred from accessing the transmission station. Although a percentage incremented by 5 is illustrated any percentage increment can be used.

For an eab BarringTime example a mean EAB barring time value can be applied to the barring category. The mean EAB barring time value can use seconds or any other unit of time. For example a value of s4 can indicate the mobile device for which EAB applies can be barred from accessing the transmission station for 4 seconds.

In another example the EAB configuration information can be carried in a dedicated SIB for EAB such as a SIB14 for an LTE system. The change of the EAB configuration information carried in the dedicated SIB for EAB may not be subjected to the modification period which can be similar to SIB type 10 SIB10 SIB type 11 SIB11 or SIB type 12 SIB12 .

The barring category used in the existing SIB or the dedicated SIB for EAB in LTE systems or UMTS can include a three bit field or a two bit field. In the examples illustrated in a three bit bit mask is used to indicate which of the three categories category A B or C of mobile devices EAB is applied. In an example the three categories can be mutually exclusive where mobile devices in category A are not in category B or category C and mobile devices in category B are not in category A or category C and mobile devices in category C are not in category A or category B.

In another example each subcategory can be a superset of another category. For example category A can be a superset of category B and category B can be a superset of category C which can mean EAB applicable to category A mobile devices can apply to categories B and C mobile devices. Stated another way category C can be a subset of category B and category B can be a subset of category A which can mean EAB applicable to category B mobile devices can apply to categories C mobile devices but may not apply to category A mobile devices. In an alternative example the barring category can use a two bit field to indicate which set or EAB category roaming category of mobile device can apply the EAB. For example 00 can correspond to category A mobile devices 01 can correspond to category B mobile devices and 10 can correspond to category C mobile devices.

In the specific examples shown previously two parameters such as barring factor or eabBarringFactor and barring time or eabBarringTime can be configured to control the percentage of mobile devices within a barring category that can be barred as well as the barring time. The barring factor can include a percentage of mobile devices in a barring category or a maximum number of access attempts of mobile devices in the barring category. In another example an EAB parameter can be omitted or other EAB parameters can be included such as a maximum number of access attempt s which can define the maximum number of times an access attempt can be barred. Another EAB parameter can be a maximum barring time which can define the maximum amount of time an access attempt can be barred. Other EAB parameters can also be considered.

In an example an eab BarringForMO r11 IE can be present if EAB is applied in the cell. When EAB is not applied to mobile device in the cell the eab BarringForMO r11 IE may not be included in the existing SIB or dedicated SIB for EAB.

In an example for UMTS the EAB configuration information can be carried in an existing SIB such as a SIB3 similar to the existing SIB for the LTE system previously described. The EAB mobile originating call indicator e.g. eab BarringForMO r11 can be carried in the existing SIB3. In another example for UMTS the EAB configuration information can be carried in the dedicated SIB for EAB such as a SIB21 similar to the dedicated SIB for EAB in the LTE system previously described. The dedicated SIB for EAB can carry the EAB mobile originating call indicator e.g. eab BarringForMO r11 .

The mobile device can become aware of a presence or a change in the EAB configuration information in the BCCH broadcast by the transmission station in various procedures or methods. In an example for the LTE system where the EAB mobile originating call indicator e.g. eab BarringForMO r11 may be carried in the existing SIB such as SIB2 the EAB configuration information may change in accordance with a modification period which can be up to 40.96 seconds. In examples for the LTE system where the EAB mobile originating call indicator e.g. eab BarringForMO r11 may be carried in a dedicated SIB for EAB such as SIB14 then more dynamic mechanisms to modify the EAB configuration can be applied. The dynamic mechanisms can be well suited to handle a sudden surge of MTC device access attempts or delay tolerant access attempts such as an alarm or warning during emergency situation and the roaming of a large number of delay tolerant mobile devices from one network to another. The mobile device can acquire dynamically updated EAB information in a dedicated SIB for EAB such as SIB14 for LTE systems and SIB 21 for UMTS.

The mobile device can acquire up to date EAB configuration information in the dedicated SIB for EAB periodically and update the EAB configuration information periodically. As previously discussed the transmission station can change the EAB configuration at anytime within a modification period by changing the content of the dedicated SIB for EAB. In order for the mobile device to acquire the latest EAB configuration information in an example the mobile device can acquire a broadcast of a SIB having scheduling information such as SIB type 1 SIB1 for LTE system and a master information block MIB for UMTS periodically such as 80 milliseconds ms e.g. 2 modification periods . The SIB having scheduling information can have scheduling information for the SIB with EAB configuration information e.g. SIB2 or SIB 14 for LTE systems or SIB3 or SIB21 for UMTS . If the SIB having scheduling information includes scheduling information for the SIB with EAB configuration information the mobile device can proceed to acquire or receive the SIB with EAB configuration information accordingly.

In another example the mobile device can acquire the SIB with EAB configuration information before attempting RRC connection establishment for delay tolerant access. As previously discussed the transmission station can change the EAB configuration at anytime within a modification period by changing the content of the dedicated SIB for EAB. In order for the mobile station to acquire the latest EAB configuration information in another example a mobile device configured for EAB can acquire the SIB with EAB configuration information prior to performing RRC connection establishment for delay tolerant access. The mobile device can make a request from the transmission station for RRC connection establishment for delay tolerant access and update the EAB configuration information at the mobile station prior to the request. In an example the mobile device can acquire the SIB having scheduling information which can carry the scheduling information of the SIB with EAB configuration information. If the SIB with EAB configuration information is not included in the SIB carrying scheduling information the mobile device can consider that EAB may not be applied. If the SIB with EAB configuration information is included in the SIB carrying scheduling information the mobile device can proceed to acquire and receive the SIB with EAB configuration information and EAB configuration information contained in the SIB with EAB configuration information.

In another example a paging notification from the transmission station can indicate a presence of EAB configuration information. The mobile device may acquire the SIB having scheduling information then acquire the SIB with EAB configuration information before performing RRC connection establishment. The SIB with EAB configuration information e.g. dedicated SIB for EAB can be acquired in accordance with the paging notification where the transmission station can include an EAB indication in the paging message to indicate that EAB configuration information is present in the SIB with EAB configuration information such as SIB14 for LTE systems. When the mobile device detects the EAB indication in the received paging message the mobile device can proceed to receive and acquire the SIB having scheduling information for the scheduling information of the SIB with EAB configuration information and subsequently acquire the SIB with EAB configuration information.

In another example the EAB indication can use a two bit field to indicate the category of mobile devices where EAB configuration in the SIB with EAB configuration information is applied. For example 00 can correspond to category A mobile devices 01 can correspond to category B mobile devices and 10 corresponds to category C mobile devices.

In an UMTS example the mobile device can acquire a MIB or a scheduling block SB which can carry the scheduling information of the SIB with EAB configuration information such as SIB21. If the SIB with EAB configuration information is not included in the scheduling information the mobile device can consider that EAB is not applied. If the SIB with EAB configuration information is included in the scheduling information the mobile device can proceed to acquire the SIB with EAB configuration information and EAB configuration information contained in the SIB with EAB configuration information. In an another example the SIB with EAB configuration information can be acquired in accordance with the paging notification where the transmission station can include an EAB indication in the paging message to indicate that EAB configuration information is present in the SIB with EAB configuration information such as SIB21 for UMTS. When the mobile device detects the EAB indication in the received paging message the mobile device can proceed to receive and acquire the SIB having scheduling information for the scheduling information of the SIB with EAB configuration information and subsequently acquire the SIB with EAB configuration information.

After the EAB configuration information is received the mobile device can apply an access barring check process or procedure for EAB and ACB. A pseudo code of an access barring check process at the mobile device configured for EAB for both EAB and ACB in the LTE system can include the following 

The mobile device can bar the mobile device from accessing the transmission station when the mobile device has characteristics identified in the EAB configuration information for barring.

The mobile device can convey or provide EAB configuration information such as the mobile device s EAB category or EAB classification or roaming category to the transmission station including an eNB for the LTE system and an RNC for the UMTS during the RRC connection establishment. The mobile device s EAB category can define the mobile device s relationship to a PLMN category A B or C . When the mobile determines the access to a cell is not barred the UE may send RRC connection request message to the transmission station of the RAN e.g. the eNB for the LTE system or the RNC for the UMTS to initiate a connection establishment. In an overload condition e.g. when an overload indication is received from the core network as discussed later or when the RAN is overloaded the RAN may reject the RRC connection request from the mobile device based on the EAB configuration information and or roaming category of the mobile device. The roaming category category A B or C can be determined by the mobile device s relationship to a PLMN such as whether the mobile device is in the mobile device s HPLMN. In order for the RAN to determine the EAB configuration information and or roaming category of the mobile in an example the mobile device can provide the mobile device s EAB category or EAB configuration information in a RRC connection request message or EAB configuration information can be implied by an RRC connection establishment cause.

The RRC connection request message such as an RRCConnectionRequest message can include an EAB classification included in an EAB configuration IE such as an eabConfiguration IE for the mobile device. The eabConfiguration IE can include the EAB classification. In an example as described in an RRCConnectionRequest field description the eabConfiguration IE can be present when the UE is configured for EAB. Otherwise the eabConfiguration IE can be omitted. A cat1 can indicate a UE that is in the UE s HPLMN or in a PLMN that is equivalent to the UE s HPLMN EHPLMN . A cat2 can indicate the UE that is in the PLMN listed as most preferred PLMN of the country where the UE is roaming in the operator defined PLMN selector list on the SIM USIM.

The dedicated or new eabConfiguration IE can be provided in the RRC connection request message. In another example the existing spare values e.g. spare1 and spare2 in the existing establishmentCause IE can be used where spare1 may be replaced with cat1Access and spare2 can be replaced with cat2Access. The cat1Access and cat2Access can be similar to cat1 and cat2 as previously described with the eabConfiguration IE.

In another example EAB configuration can be implied by the RRC connection establishment cause such as establishmentCause IE. The establishmentCause EstablishmentCause can be enumerated as emergency highPriorityAccess mt Access mo Signalling mo Data delayTolerantAccess v1020 spare2 spare1 where mt stands for mobile terminating and mo stands for mobile originating. When the mobile device initiates RRC connection establishment with cause delay tolerant access such as delayTolerantAccess v1020 as indicated in the RRC connection request message the transmission station infers that the mobile devices can be configured for EAB or the mobile device implies that mobile device can be configured for EAB . By implication the establishmentCause IE can include the EAB classification.

The LTE system can provide an access barring overload mechanism for EAB between the transmission station of the RAN and a mobility management entity MME of the core network CN via a S1 interface. The MME can restrict the load that the transmission stations e.g. eNodeBs associated with the MME are generating on the MME if the MME is configured to enable an overload restriction. The overload restriction can be configured by the MME invoking an S1 interface overload procedure to the transmission station s with which the MME has S1 interface connections. To reflect the amount of the desired load reduction by the MME the MME can adjust the proportion of the transmission stations which may be sent in a S1 interface OVERLOAD START message and the content of the OVERLOAD START message.

The MME can request the transmission station to restrict the load from subcategories of mobile devices that the MME s connected transmission stations are generating on the MME. The subcategories or classifications can include mobile devices that reselect from other PLMNs PLMN type and mobile devices using low access priority delay tolerant access for the radio access. In an example PLMN type barring can be used to protect a VPLMN from an overload caused by the failure of one or more other networks in that country and accesses made from roaming subscribers.

In a method for barring a mobile device from accessing a transmission station the transmission station can receive the mobile device s EAB configuration information from the mobile device as part of the RRC connection request message as previously described. The transmission station can enable EAB on SIB or configure a SIB with EAB configuration information . The transmission station can broadcast the SIB with the EAB configuration information to the mobile device. The transmission station can also reject the RRC connection request from the mobile device via RRC connection reject message when the transmission station receives overload indication from the MME or when the transmission station determines that the RAN is overloaded. The transmission station can receive the overload start message from the MME in the core network prior to configuring the SIB with EAB configuration information.

In another example the transmission station can determine an overload condition prior to configuring the SIB with EAB configuration information. The transmission station can send the mobile device a RRC connection establishment rejection message for the mobile device having the EAB classification defined for EAB in the EAB configuration information for the transmission station. In an example the EAB configuration information can be inferred from the RRC connection establishment cause as previously described. If the cause is set to delay tolerant access the mobile device can be configured for EAB. In an example the EAB configuration information can also be inferred from the RRC connection establishment cause where cause value can be explicitly set to EAB .

In an example if an Overload Action IE in an Overload Response IE within the OVERLOAD START message is set to

When the Overload Action IE is set to Reject RRC connection establishment for UEs configured for EAB . . . for various sub categories of UEs eNB can apply EAB by enabling EAB on system information broadcast for EAB categories category A B or C of the UEs and the eNB can send a RRC connection rejection.

The Overload Action IE can indicate which signaling traffic is subject to rejection by the transmission station e.g. eNB in an MME overload situation. The Overload Action IE can have an IE group name Overload Action a presence a range an IE type and reference and a semantics description. The presence for the Overload Action IE can include mandatory M . The IE type and reference for the Overload Action IE can include enumerated Reject RRC connection establishments for non emergency MO DT Reject RRC connection establishments for Signaling Permit Emergency Sessions and mobile terminated services only . . . Permit High Priority Sessions and mobile terminated services only Reject delay tolerant access Reject RRC connection establishment for UEs configured for EAB Reject RRC connection establishment for UEs configured for EAB and registered neither in their HPLMN nor in a PLMN that is equivalent to it Reject RRC connection establishment for UEs configured for EAB and registered neither in the PLMN listed as most preferred PLMN of the country where the UE is roaming in the operator defined PLMN selector list on the SIM USIM nor in their HPLMN nor in an PLMN that is equivalent to it . illustrates an IE definition for an overload action IE.

In another example the transmission station can receive an overload stop message from the MME in the core network. The transmission station can disable the SIB with EAB configuration information or remove the EAB configuration information from the SIB with EAB configuration information. The transmission station can broadcast the SIBs without EAB configuration information to the mobile device.

In a method for barring a mobile device from accessing a transmission station the transmission station may not receive the mobile device s EAB configuration information as part of the RRC connection request message as previously described. The transmission station can enable EAB on SIB or configure a SIB with EAB configuration information . The transmission station can broadcast the SIB with the EAB configuration information to the mobile device. The transmission station may reject the RRC connection request from the mobile device when the mobile device receives overload indication from the MME or when the transmission station determines that the RAN is overloaded. The transmission station can receive the overload start message from the MME in the core network prior to configuring the SIB with EAB configuration information. In an example the EAB configuration information can be inferred from the RRC connection establishment cause as previously described. If the cause is set to delay tolerant access the mobile device can be configured for EAB. In an example the EAB configuration information can also be inferred from the RRC connection establishment cause where cause value can be explicitly set to EAB .

When the Overload Action IE is set to Apply EAB for UEs configured for EAB . . . for various sub categories of UEs eNB can apply EAB by enabling EAB on system information broadcast for EAB categories category A B or C of the UEs.

The IE type and reference for the Overload Action IE can be enumerated Reject RRC connection establishments for non emergency MO DT Reject RRC connection establishments for Signaling Permit Emergency Sessions and mobile terminated services only . . . Permit High Priority Sessions and mobile terminated services only Reject delay tolerant access Apply EAB for UEs configured for EAB Apply EAB for UEs configured for EAB and registered neither in their HPLMN nor in a PLMN that is equivalent to it Apply EAB for UEs configured for EAB and registered neither in the PLMN listed as most preferred PLMN of the country where the UE is roaming in the operator defined PLMN selector list on the SIM USIM nor in their HPLMN nor in an PLMN that is equivalent to it . illustrates an IE definition for an overload action IE.

The OVERLOAD STOP process illustrated in can also apply after an overload situation has ended and the transmission station does not receive the mobile device s EAB configuration information as part of the RRC connection request message.

The UMTS can provide an access barring overload mechanism for EAB between the transmission station including the RNC of the RAN and the core network CN via a Iu PS interface. In an example an existing Priority Class Indicator can be used to define EAB. The Priority Class Indicator information element IE can indicate that an overload has occurred and traffic for the indicated priority class can be reduced.

The Priority Class Indicator IE can have an IE group name Priority Class Indicator a presence a range an IE type and reference and a semantics description. The presence for the Priority Class Indicator IE can include mandatory M . The IE type and reference for the Overload Action IE can include bit string of size 8 bits. The semantics description for the Priority Class Indicator IE can include Each bit can represent a priority class as specified below. If a bit is set to 1 the signaling traffic of the respective priority class can be reduced. Bit 0 Delay Tolerant traffic limited. Bit 1 Limit traffic from UEs configured for EAB. Bit 2 Limit traffic from UEs configured for EAB and registered neither in their HPLMN nor in a PLMN that is equivalent to it. Bit 3 Limit traffic from UEs configured for EAB and registered neither in the PLMN listed as most preferred PLMN of the country where the UE is roaming in the operator defined PLMN selector list on the SIM USIM nor in their HPLMN nor in an PLMN that is equivalent to it. Bits 4 . . . 7 reserved for future use. 

In another example the RNC in the transmission station can receive a priority class indicator IE from the core network. The priority class indicator IE can define the mobile device s roaming category used for configuring the SIB with EAB configuration information.

In an example a dedicated or new EAB Indicator can be used to define EAB. illustrates a CN OVERLOAD process at a CN from a CN to a RNC in a UMTS. The CN can indicate to the RNC that the CN is in a congested state by sending the CN OVERLOAD message. A CN Domain Indicator IE may be included if the CN can determine the domain suffering from a signaling traffic overload. A specific CN node can send the CN OVERLOAD message towards those RNCs from which the CN can receive an INITIAL UE MESSAGE message.

Reception of the CN OVERLOAD message by the UTRAN can cause reduction of signaling traffic towards the CN. If the CN Domain Indicator IE is included in the CN OVERLOAD message and a Global CN ID IE is not included in the CN OVERLOAD message the RNC can apply signaling traffic reduction mechanisms toward an indicated domain. If the Priority Class Indicator IE is included then the RNC can take action to reduce the traffic for the priority class indicated in the Priority Class Indicator IE. If the EAB Indicator IE is included then the RNC can take action to reduce the traffic for UEs configured for EAB and for subcategories of UEs indicated in the EAB Indicator IE.

The EAB Indicator information element IE can indicate that an overload has occurred and traffic for the indicated extended access class can be reduced. The Extended Access Barring Indicator IE can have an IE group name EAB Indicator a presence a range an IE type and reference and a semantics description. The presence for the EAB Indicator IE can include mandatory M . The IE type and reference for the EAB Indicator IE can include bit string of size 8 bits. The semantics description for the EAB Indicator IE can include Each bit can represent a priority class as specified below. If a bit is set to 1 the signaling traffic of the respective priority class can be reduced. Bit 0 Limit traffic from UEs configured for EAB. Bit 1 Limit traffic from UEs configured for EAB and registered neither in their HPLMN nor in a PLMN that is equivalent to it. Bit 2 Limit traffic from UEs configured for EAB and registered neither in the PLMN listed as most preferred PLMN of the country where the UE is roaming in the operator defined PLMN selector list on the SIM USIM nor in their HPLMN nor in an PLMN that is equivalent to it. Bits 3 . . . 7 reserved for future use. illustrates a radio access network application part RANAP protocol extension including an extended access barring EAB indicator.

In another example the RNC in the transmission station can receive an EAB indicator IE from the core network. The EAB indicator IE can define the mobile device s roaming category used for configuring the SIB with EAB configuration information.

The described processes procedures and signaling mechanisms to configure EAB for the LTE and UMTS network can efficiently bar the access of certain categories of mobile devices for overload protection and control. Described processes and mechanisms can define the type and amount of EAB information broadcast in an existing SIB or a dedicated SIB for EAB. A broadcast of a dedicated SIB for EAB can provide dynamic update of EAB configuration information. A mobile station can receive dynamically an indication of a presence of EAB information in a serving network.

Another example provides a method for authorizing access to a transmission station for a mobile device as shown in the flow chart in . The method includes the operation of receiving at the mobile device extended access barring EAB configuration information in a system information block SIB transmitted in a broadcast control channel BCCH from a transmission station as in block . The operation of barring the mobile device from accessing the transmission station by the mobile device configured for EAB and having characteristics identified in the EAB configuration information for barring follows as in block .

Another example provides a method for barring a mobile device from accessing a transmission station as shown in the flow chart in . The method includes the operation of receiving at the transmission station from the mobile device a radio resource control RRC connection establishment request as in block . The operation of configuring a system information block SIB with extended access barring EAB configuration information follows as in block . The next operation of the method can be broadcasting the SIB with EAB configuration information to the mobile device as in block .

In another example a transmission station can be in wireless communication with a mobile device. provides an example illustration of the mobile device such as a user equipment UE a mobile station MS a mobile wireless device a mobile communication device a tablet a handset or other type of mobile wireless device. The mobile device can include one or more antennas configured to communicate with transmission station such as a base station BS an evolved Node B eNB a base band unit BBU a remote radio head RRH a remote radio equipment RRE a relay station RS a radio equipment RE or other type of wireless wide area network WWAN access point. The mobile device can be configured to communicate using at least one wireless communication standard including 3GPP LTE 3GPP UMTS GSM WiMAX High Speed Packet Access HSPA Bluetooth and WiFi. The mobile device can communicate using separate antennas for each wireless communication standard or shared antennas for multiple wireless communication standards. The mobile device can communicate in a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless personal area network WPAN and or a WWAN.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The base station and mobile station may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

