---

title: Method and apparatus for providing an interface for triggering device action
abstract: An approach is provided for causing, at least in part, an identification of one or more triggering devices. A processor may then cause, at least in part, an association of the one or more actions with the one or more triggering devices based, at least in part, on the identification wherein the one or more actions are initiated based, at least in part, on a detection of the one or more triggering devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09661451&OS=09661451&RS=09661451
owner: Nokia Technologies Oy
number: 09661451
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20160512
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 482 358 filed May 29 2012 the entire contents of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Service providers and device manufacturers e.g. wireless cellular etc. are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. One area of interest has been the development of automating certain actions to be performed by mobile devices. Many actions may be performed on mobile devices but important actions are often neglected. For example users are known to be lazy in taking backups of files on mobile devices. However there is currently no way to trigger the performance of actions as mobile devices move past specified locations.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for initiating one or more actions based on detection of one or more triggering devices from location based interfaces.

According to one embodiment a method comprises causing at least in part an identification of one or more triggering devices. The method also comprises causing at least in part an association of one or more actions with the one or more triggering devices based at least in part on the identification wherein the one or more actions are based at least in part on a detection of the one or more triggering devices.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more computer programs the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to cause at least in part an identification of one or more triggering devices. The apparatus is also caused to cause at least in part an association of one or more actions with the one or more triggering devices based at least in part on the identification wherein the one or more actions are based at least in part on a detection of the one or more triggering devices.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to cause at least in part an identification of one or more triggering devices. The apparatus is further caused to cause at least in part an association of one or more actions with the one or more triggering devices based at least in part on the identification wherein the one or more actions are based at least in part on a detection of the one or more triggering devices.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for causing at least in part an identification of one or more triggering devices. The apparatus also comprises means for causing at least in part an association of one or more actions with the one or more triggering devices based at least in part on the identification wherein the one or more actions are based at least in part on a detection of the one or more triggering devices.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on or derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for initiating one or more actions based on detection of one or more triggering devices from location based interfaces are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

To address this problem a system of introduces the capability to initiate one or more actions based on detection of one or more triggering devices from location based interfaces. In one embodiment certain locations may cause certain actions to be performed by mobile devices. For example one or more users may virtually define physical devices and or locations to act as triggers for the actions. In one scenario the physical devices and or locations may be part of model interfaces including 3 dimensional 3 D map interfaces. The map interfaces may show indoor or outdoor locations. Representations of physical devices and or locations in the model interfaces may act as identifiers for triggering devices. Such triggering device identifiers and triggering devices may be associated with an action such that an action is performed at a mobile device when the mobile device detects an identifier. For instance mobile devices may detect identifiers via near field communication NFC . Actions performed may include any actions performed on mobile devices including backing up files displaying one or more actions associated with the identifier providing an advertisement checking in an access control system printing a file or any combination thereof.

In one embodiment triggering devices have a NFC field and one or more identifiers. Possible triggering devices may include doors security gates elevators bus stops electronic billboards printers surveillance video cameras vending machines etc. In one embodiment such physical objects and or locations may have representations as part of a user interface for example a 3 D map like Nokia City Scene. Mobile devices may then obtain from the map the identifier for the triggering device to perform one or more associated actions. In such an embodiment users may define the physical proximity between their device and the triggering device that will initiate the action. Such proximity may be defined in terms of precise distances. For example an action may start when a mobile phone is within one meter from the triggering device. In such cases Bluetooth signal strength may be used to detect proximity between devices. In another embodiment mobile devices may detect triggering devices as objects in a representation created by the user. For instance a triggering device identifier may be recognized in a picture taken by a user using the mobile device. For such a scenario an action may be initiated when the identifier is detected in the camera picture.

In yet another embodiment the interface could be a presentation of something non physical such as a graph of social interaction. For example some detected social interaction may serve as a triggering device or identifier that may serve as the catalyst for an action on a mobile device. In one such scenario a social network containing a certain number of members may serve as a triggering device whereupon an action such as a service upgrade or special promotion is performed at a mobile device when the threshold number of members is reached. Other mobile devices may also serve as triggering devices. For instance one mobile device may detect the presence of another mobile device that serves as a triggering device perhaps to initiate the action of a status update at a social network. For such a case the triggering may be configured such that the triggering is reciprocal. In other words mobile devices may act as triggering devices for each other so the mobile devices do not have to set up the association between the triggering device and action each time. Another scenario for such triggering may include setting up mobile devices that are part of the same social network to be triggering devices for each other so when mobile devices that are part of the same social network are in close proximity the action is initiated. For one case a social network may display a status update when mobile devices associated with users in a subset or group within the network are in close proximity.

In a further embodiment the interfaces and identifiers may permit users to define the actions associated with the triggering devices. For example where the action includes backing up files the system may provide the user with folders that may be backed up. In one scenario a user s mobile phone may connect with backup service s via e.g. 2 3 4G cellular data WAN WLAN or close proximity radio like Bluetooth to make the backup. In other words the triggering device may not make perform the action itself it may simply serve as a trigger for the action. The action may be performed by another device in another location. In another scenario the triggering device may perform the action itself for example if the action is to print a document and the triggering device is a printer. The system may be configured such that a mobile device s detection of the printer triggering device initiates printing of a document from the very same printer. In another scenario the triggering device or a third device may exchange information e.g. media content contact information digital business cards etc. with the user s mobile phone.

In one embodiment the system may scan an interface then present all the possible triggering device identifiers that are part of the interface. For instance the system may provide the user with the option to scroll over a 3 D map interface to see all the possible triggering devices as represented by identifiers in the interface . In one scenario the 3 D map may be of an indoor location where the user may select possible actions to associate with the triggering devices. In such a scenario the user may choose for instance a file backup operation when a mobile phone is in a certain proximity of an office. In another scenario the 3 D map may be of an outdoor location and the user may select a possible action such as paying car parking or transferring money into a toll booth when the mobile device is within a given proximity of a door or gate.

In one embodiment the interface may provide users further information as to the one or more actions. In some instances such information may help the user define the actions with more detail. In one scenario the interface may permit the user to drag and drop files from one or more applications to the identifiers to cause an association between the user desired action and the triggering devices. In a further scenario the system may create a presentation of information relevant to the action including status information historical information related data or a combination thereof. Status information may refer to the status of the backup process for example a running bar depicting a percentage of completion. Historical information may include the backup instances for each file or folder including a listing of dates and or times of the most recent file backup process. Related data may include data such as the files themselves or a combination thereof. The presentation may be part of the 3 D interface and or an Augmented Reality view of the associated identifier. With such related data the user may gain assurance that the actions are performed in accordance to user expectations.

In one embodiment initiating certain actions at mobile devices may include determining one or more applications services or a combination thereof based at least in part on the detection of one or more triggering devices. For instance the action of backing up a file may require a file backup application to execute the action. The triggering device may initiate the action by notifying the file backup application when the triggering device and mobile device are within a pre set proximity.

In another embodiment triggering devices may be detected via one or more detecting devices. For one instance mobile devices may serve as detecting devices. In this embodiment initiating the action may take into account the context information capability information or a combination thereof associated with one or more detecting devices one or more triggering devices or a combination thereof. Context information may refer to the location and or orientation of a device while capability information may include what the device is capable of including device specifications available applications memory space etc.

One example of where triggering device and detecting device context information affects the action performed is where triggering devices may initiate the actions upon detecting user information associated with the mobile devices. For instance physical shops may employ digital services that can access user information associated with mobile devices. Then the shops may push certain kinds of personalized advertisements and or coupons to the user when the user walks by the shop door. For such a scenario the shop door may be a triggering device. Users may define through the interface certain specifications such as the shops that may interact with the mobile devices to provide advertisements and or coupons or the types of interactions that shops may have with the mobile devices.

For one use case a user may leave an office and walk past a door with a file storage device adjacent to it where walking past the device s NFC field triggers the backup function for work related files on the user s device. To perform the backup function the mobile device may run a NFC monitoring daemon or other background process that notifies applications registered to it when it detects a nearby NFC triggering device. For example the notification may include the one or more identifiers associated with the detected triggering device. In such a case the backup application may have registered to the NFC device monitoring daemon that it wanted to receive all NFC device identifiers upon detection. The backup application may then receive the one or more NFC identifiers from the NFC monitoring deamon and begin searching an internal data structure such as a database to see whether there is an action associated with the identifiers.

In this file backup case there is an entry related to the identifier containing information related to actions that need to be performed when the identifier is detected. The entry may be as follows 

In one embodiment authentication may include special verifications for the initial set up. For example the initial set up for an action of checking into a building may require that a mobile device actually be present at the physical location of a triggering device. Subsequently the check in may occur using the identifier of the triggering device which may be a presentation of the physical location. Such an authentication may provide some increased control in the set up process.

As shown in the system comprises a user equipment UE or UEs having connectivity to a detection module or detection modules an interface module or interface modules a trigger processor and a database via a communication network . By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

The UE is any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

In one embodiment the detection modules may detect one or more identifiers associated with one or more triggering devices. In one embodiment the detection modules may detect one or more identifiers using at least in part short range wireless communications including NFC. In another embodiment the detection modules may work with detecting devices to detect one or more triggering devices. In such a situation the triggering devices may be the devices that actually perform the action such as a printer that acts as a triggering device where the action is printing a document from a mobile device. In these cases the detection modules may further determine context information capability information or a combination thereof associated with the detecting devices triggering devices or a combination thereof and initiate the actions accordingly. For instance the detection modules may assess the location or device capabilities of the detecting devices and or triggering devices. In one such scenario following from the printing example the detection module may detect that a printer triggering device requires a software update to perform the printing and act accordingly either by initiating software update and or halting printing.

In one embodiment the detection modules may interact with the interface modules for the user to configure detection for detecting devices and triggering devices. In one embodiment the interface modules may generate the user interfaces for the users to select the one or more actions to associate with the one or more triggering devices. As discussed above the interface modules may create physical or non physical representations containing identifiers associated with triggering devices for users to associate the triggering devices with actions. In one embodiment such interfaces include location based interfaces with representations of triggering devices. For instance the interface modules may create a 3 D map of an office with the office door image as a representation for the actual office door that serves as a triggering device. UEs may display the interfaces so that users may select one or more actions to be associated with triggering devices as depicted by identifiers in the interfaces. When users interact with the interfaces the interface modules may inform the trigger processor of user selections in associating actions with triggering devices.

Once the detection modules and interfaces modules detect the triggering devices the trigger processor may initiate one or more actions associated with the one or more triggering devices. To do so the trigger processor may determine the triggering devices detected identify the one or more actions associated with the triggering device then initiate the actions. To initiate the actions the trigger processor may notify applications and or services associated with the actions. In one embodiment the database may keep track of the triggering devices and possible actions associated with the triggering devices updating devices as they are added to a setting and adjusting the possible actions in accordance to system capabilities.

By way of example the UE detection modules interface modules trigger processor and database communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

For example in one embodiment the control logic may work with the association module to determine the actions dictated by user interactions received from the interface modules . As previously discussed users may interact with interfaces produced by the interface module to select desired actions. The association module may process these selections and triggering device identifiers displayed in conjunction with the selections to associate one or more actions with one or more triggering devices.

In one embodiment the identification module may work with the control logic to determine the one or more triggering devices associated with the one or more identifiers detected. In one embodiment the identification module may determine one or more applications one or more services or a combination thereof to perform the one or more actions. The determination of one or more applications services or a combination thereof may be based at least in part on the one or more triggering devices detected. In one embodiment the control logic may then work with the action module to determine context information capability information or a combination thereof associated with the one or more detecting devices. In doing so the action module and control logic may cause a determination modification or a combination thereof of the one or more actions. For example the action module may determine that a detecting device and or triggering device no longer has any memory space to store more backups. The action module may then modify the action of creating a backup to instead notify the UE of the memory space limitation and request that the UE select an alternate mode of action including saving to another location clearing memory space etc.

From there the control logic and initiation module may initiate the one or more actions based on the applications and or services determined by the identification module and any determinations and or modifications found by the action module . In one scenario the initiation of the one or more actions applications services or a combination thereof may include an authentication of the one or more triggering devices detecting devices or a combination thereof where the initiation module may not initiation the action without the authentication. In an additional scenario the initiation module and control logic may determine status information historical information related data or a combination thereof associated with the one or more actions. The initiation module control logic and interface modules may then cause at least in part a presentation of the status information historical information related data or a combination thereof so assure users that the actions are being carried out.

After determining the associated one or more actions the control logic may determine one or more applications one or more services or a combination thereof based at least in part on the detection of the one or more triggering devices and cause at least in part an initiation of the one or more applications the one or more services or a combination thereof to perform the one or more actions step . In such a way control logic may cause actions wherein the one or more actions are initiated based at least in part on a detection of the one or more triggering devices step .

Furthermore the control logic may cause at least in part a determination a modification or a combination thereof of the one or more actions based at least in part on the context information the capability information or a combination thereof step . For step the control logic may then initiate the one or more actions applications services or a combination thereof according to the determination modification or a combination thereof.

In one instance when the user enters the coverage area of the NFC daemon the service may automatically notify backup servers to verify that they are online so that the backup may be created or a previous backup may be retrieved. If a backup server is unavailable the service may create a temporary backup of the files to a Cloud service where the saved file is automatically moved to the original backup server when the server becomes available.

The processes described herein for an approach for initiating one or more actions based on detection of one or more triggering devices from location based interfaces may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to initiating one or more actions based on detection of one or more triggering devices from location based interfaces. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for initiating one or more actions based on detection of one or more triggering devices from location based interfaces. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for initiating one or more actions based on detection of one or more triggering devices from location based interfaces is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user a microphone an Infrared IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen a touch screen or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for initiating one or more actions based on detection of one or more triggering devices from location based interfaces.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA one or more controllers or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to share items using audio. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of initiating one or more actions based on detection of one or more triggering devices from location based interfaces. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to share items using audio. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

