---

title: Electronic assessments, and methods of use and manufacture thereof
abstract: The disclosed subject matter relates to methods and apparatus facilitating assessments of structural and electronic features, parameters, characteristics or any combination thereof using one or more unmanned autonomous vehicles. In some embodiments, an unmanned vehicle may be configured to monitor one or both of the structural and electrical characteristics of an object, and can also include cooperative behavior between two or more unmanned vehicles to test electrical communication in a directional fashion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09536149&OS=09536149&RS=09536149
owner: PROXY TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
number: 09536149
owner_city: Reston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160406
---
The present application claims the benefit of the earlier filing date of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 291 344 filed on Feb. 4 2016 the contents of which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference.

The disclosed subject matter relates to methods and apparatus facilitating assessments of structural and electronic features parameters characteristics or any combination thereof using one or more unmanned autonomous vehicles.

Generally inspections of structures and various types of objects is necessary due to wear and tear caused by weather or other environmental elements. Electrical characteristics are often also required to be regularly assessed. Issues arising out of power failures electronic transmission faults and non isotropic radiation can require periodic or continual assessment to assure a reliable communications link with any number of users attempting to utilize the structure.

Typically structures in need of constant inspection include railway tracks cellular phone towers roads bridges dams electrical power grids power plants water treatment plants high rise buildings and oil refineries among others. Human inspection can be significantly aided by an automated infrastructure that can provide constant or periodic monitoring especially in cases that may be deemed dangerous or expensive to conduct an inspection or monitoring task by one or more individuals.

Cellular phone towers have become ubiquitous as the rise of cellular phone use continues to rise exponentially. As such the structural and communication health of a cellular phone tower has become of increasing importance. Cellular phone towers can be subject to numerous problems that require maintenance. One such problem is basic structural maintenance due to environmental problems such as weather pollution debris and terrain. Additionally the cellular phone tower can experience communication problems due to electrical issues such as failed equipment interference or even atmospheric phenomena such as solar flares etc. Manually inspecting cell phone towers can be very laborious due to their heights and maintenance crews are often required to travel large distances since the towers are preferentially kept out of view . Further maintenance crews risk potentially fatal accidents from falling electrocution etc.

Some of the related art includes applications that use manned and unmanned vehicles to inspect various infrastructures. Manned vehicles often do not adequately address these problems. However it can be beneficial to instead use unmanned vehicles for the inspection of various elements of the aforementioned infrastructure.

There are ample references in the related art facilitating solutions for monitoring various structures. In the aspect of physical assessments traditional cameras are often used to provide pictures of the structure under visual inspection. However such a visual inspection technique can become problematic when inspecting a large area such as a railway track or a high rise structure such as a cellular phone tower. Some solutions involving the mounting of cameras on unmanned vehicles are available. However such solutions are usually limited to the context of providing immediate solutions to problems such as those involving weather hazards among others but neglecting electronic assessment of the structure.

Electronic assessments in the case of structures incorporating active elements such as communication equipment also require supervision and maintenance. In most instances maintenance of electric utilities in structures such as cellular phone towers or power plants have similar hazards as in the case of inspection of physical parameters. In some cases vehicles such as airplanes helicopters and ground based vehicles can be used to inspect and make assessments of various electric parameters. However these methods can be costly time consuming and may involve a significant amount of human intervention.

In the case of structures facilitating communication equipment such as cellular phone towers or structures facilitating communication for a large area supervision is needed to address transmission and or reception faults that may appear due to device breakdown weather hazards etc. Communication equipment is also often engineered to provide isotropic radiation such that transmission reception signals are not treated preferentially based on the incoming outgoing location of the signals. In some other instances however signals may be treated preferentially based on their location i.e. directionally . For example it may be more energetically efficient to transmit receive signals in a donut shaped lobe around a transceiver if signals from directly above or below the transceiver are not expected. This could pertain to a transceiver at the top of a hill where it would be unlikely to receive a phone call transmission above the transceiver. In either case it is usually beneficial to perform inspections to determine whether radiation emanating from these structures is isotropic or directional depending on the desired radiation pattern for the particular structure . Thus it could be beneficial to have one or more unmanned vehicles that could inspect cellular phone towers for structural and electrical integrity. Such unmanned vehicles could potentially perform a myriad of tasks to assure the operational viability of individual cellular phone towers.

Electronic assessment usually involves a communication handshake or other form of electronic communication with the equipment so as to assess the working status of the equipment. This process is not unlike communication handshakes prevalent in a local area network between a communication router and its network clients wherein clients and the router are involved in bidirectional communication to make sure the network elements are connected. Mirroring such a technique of supervision or monitoring can be challenging when extended to structures mentioned above.

All of the foregoing drawbacks can make the methodology and results of an inspection inconsistent. Better solutions can be undertaken which could make the undertaking of maintenance easier safer and more reliable.

The present invention addresses the problems encapsulated in the preceding paragraphs. It may be beneficial to provide an unmanned vehicle a system method and manufacture thereof for assessing an object such that the necessity for human intervention is substantially reduced or eliminated. In some embodiments an unmanned vehicle may be configured to monitor one or both of the structural and electrical characteristics of an object.

Some embodiments are therefore directed to an unmanned vehicle for assessing an object. The unmanned vehicle includes a control unit that is configured to move the unmanned vehicle to a plurality of positions relative to the object a transceiver that is configured to transmit and receive signals at each of the plurality of positions and a data collection unit that is configured to capture at least one image at each of the plurality of positions. The unmanned vehicle further includes an assessment unit that is configured to assess at least one performance parameter associated with the object based on the communication between the transceiver and the object and one or more structural parameters associated with the object based on the captured images.

Some of the disclosed embodiments are directed to a system for assessing an object structurally and electrically. The system provides for a plurality of unmanned vehicles wherein each of the plurality of unmanned vehicles further comprises a control unit that is configured to move the unmanned vehicle to at least one position relative to the object a transceiver that is configured to transmit and receive signals from the object an data collection unit that is configured to capture at least one image of the object and an assessment unit generating a local report based on the signals received by the transceiver unit. The system further provides for a central platform that is in communication with each of the plurality of unmanned vehicles. The central platform is configured to receive the at least one image of the object and the local report from each of the plurality of unmanned vehicles. It is further configured to determine at least one performance parameter associated with the object based on the received local reports and determine one or more structural parameters associated with the object from the received images.

Yet other embodiments are directed to a method for assessing an object by an unmanned vehicle the method comprising moving the unmanned vehicle to a plurality of positions relative to the object transmitting signals from each of the plurality of positions and receiving signals at each of the plurality of positions capturing at least one image at each of the plurality of positions and determining at least one performance parameter associated with the object based on the communication between the transceiver and the object determining one or more structural parameters associated with the object based on the captured images.

A few inventive aspects of the disclosed embodiments are explained in detail below with reference to the various figures. Exemplary embodiments are described to illustrate the disclosed subject matter not to limit its scope which is defined by the claims. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize a number of equivalent variations of the various features provided in the description that follows.

According to some embodiments the base station is also an unmanned vehicle or could be a fixed control station aquatic vehicle satellite a secondary swarm or the like. The unmanned vehicle can be either manually controlled by an operator at a base station or autonomously controlled by an unmanned vehicle using predetermined control algorithms. Control of the unmanned vehicle may be a combination of operator control at a fixed base station autonomous control or various stages in between. The present invention includes any or all embodiments in related art in the context of control strategy of the unmanned vehicle .

According to other exemplary embodiments of the disclosed subject matter the unmanned vehicle can be operated aerially on the ground under water and as a satellite from space.

According to some other embodiments of the present invention the unmanned vehicle operates using an energy source provided on the unmanned vehicle . The energy source can be but not restricted to fuel cells photovoltaic cells solar panels lithium ion batteries nickel cadmium batteries internal combustion engines or a combination thereof. Further the unmanned vehicle may be propelled by exemplary propulsion systems that can include flight management protocols existing in related art. Flight management protocols are supported by various hardware components on the unmanned vehicle such as rotors propellers microcontroller and memory units. In some embodiments the processor of the unmanned vehicle can be a single core processor. In alternate embodiments the unmanned vehicle can be operated using a microcontroller. Exemplary embodiments are intended to include or otherwise cover any type of processor including known related art and or later developed technologies to enhance capabilities of processing data and or instructions. The memory on the unmanned vehicle can store data relating to signal addresses images of an object textual parameters relating to an object graphical interface data or location data of an object and unmanned vehicle . According to some embodiments the location data may be obtained through a Geosynchronous Positioning System GPS or via a gyroscope that is part of the unmanned vehicle .

According to some embodiments of the disclosed subject matter images captured by the unmanned vehicles can be combined to form a high definition stereoscopic image of an object based on the position of each unmanned vehicle to . In the exemplary embodiment of the object is shown to be a cellular phone tower . However the object is not restricted to a cellular phone tower but can include railway tracks roads bridges dams electrical power grids power plants water treatment plants high rise buildings oil refineries and the like. All embodiments of the disclosed subject matter cover any object that have equipment that could facilitate electrical or communication solutions.

According to an exemplary embodiment of the disclosed subject matter the unmanned vehicle can communicate with the cellular phone tower using any number of communications techniques. In some instances one or more elements of the swarm could provide a transmission signal to the cellular phone tower while other elements of the swarm could receive the reflected re transmitted communication. This assessment can provide an assessment of the directionality of the transmission reception capabilities of the tower. Moreover elements of the swarm can reverse roles cross testing the cellular phone tower in an opposite direction. Furthermore the swarm can transition flight paths or even orbit the cellular phone tower to acquire a full 3 dimensional assessment or map of the tower s current radiation capability which could be compared with a desired or expected pattern to determine the electronic health of the tower. This approach could be further assisted by using beam formation techniques disclosed in the existing literature and related art such that an electronic assessment of the cellular tower is performed with even higher precision depending on the angles of incidence and reception of a communication signal. As will be clear to one of skill in the art this technique can also lend itself to arpeggio testing which could comprise any permutation of the transmission and reception of signals to or from any of the swarm elements. For example in a swarm with 8 elements positioned left to right and respectively and labeled 1 8 8 40 320 40 318 different combinations of transmitting and receiving are possible the last to corresponding to all transmitting or all receiving which are not useful without a new entity performing a transmitting or receiving function . Any or all of these combinations could be cycled through to build a statistical table of transmission and reception signal quality to from the cellular tower .

In some further embodiments each of the swarm elements through can be used to record the angles frequencies and amplitudes of incoming photons to form a collective swarm light field . In this scenario rather than directly imaging an objective the general presence of light of different frequencies amplitudes and directions is recorded. This practice can culminate in recorded 3 dimensional light fields one or more per unmanned vehicle . This information can then be collated and reconstructed later to perform selective zooming and focusing functions on any elements captured in the light field and even to perform such functions as rotating a viewer perspective around an element of interest even if the unmanned vehicles themselves never imaged the element from that angle . This capability is made possible because all of the light in the vicinity of the swarm is captured without lensing or filtering that could obscure or exclude some light allowing all light waves to be recorded and preferentially post processed to identify features of interest without re deploying the swarm for a second look at a feature of interest. That is the same aggregated light field data could focus and zoom in on a feature very near to the swarm with a second feature far from the swarm possibly blurred or obscured while the same data set could be used to focus and zoom in on the second feature with the first feature possibly blurred or obscured. The result is two seemingly different images from different angles magnifications etc. derived from the same data set.

The position of each unmanned vehicle to determines the configuration of the swarm. The control unit is used to position each unmanned vehicle . Different configurations can be used to capture the most detailed images such that the integrity of the cell tower is monitored. For example the unmanned vehicles to could be configured in a V formation that would cause each unmanned vehicle to be well separated. This would allow the unmanned vehicles to individually receive and mutually combine images from the cellular phone tower . The unmanned vehicles can act as spaced apertures that provide an assessment of a depth in addition to a two dimensional 2 D optical assessment that a single aperture might provide. Previously stereoscopic analysis is conducted by singular entities with cameras separated by a fixed distance.

While the approach works in determining depth perception the effect of stereoscopic analysis is vastly improved as the angle between the receptors approaches 90 . This effect is also amplified as the distance between the receptors or data collection unit increases because the receptors are more likely to be physically closer to right angles relative to the feature they are observing. Thus an unmanned vehicle swarm is capable of performing depth perception that is significantly enhanced as compared to an independent entity. The unmanned vehicles to can be positioned such that each of the unmanned vehicles are relatively orthogonal to the cellular phone tower .

By adopting a swarm configuration such as the V formation for the unmanned vehicles to control can be distributed among the unmanned vehicles to . The overall response of the system can thus be robust and adaptive with respect to changes in the environment.

According to a further embodiment of the disclosed subject matter the transceiver sends and receives signals from the cellular phone tower . The transceiver can use communication methods that can include radio communications based on any frequency spectrum. The unmanned vehicle s can communicate with the cellular phone tower exclusively or collectively from any given direction. According to some embodiments of the disclosed subject matter the transceiver can communicate with the cellular phone tower from one position and receive a response signal from the cellular phone tower at an alternative position. As previously mentioned the use of beam forming can assist this process by submitting and receiving directional signals at odd angles to the swarm formation such as 42 below altitude and 37 east of the formation in order to test multiple transmission reception angles of the cell phone tower . This approach can remove or reduce the need to physically re configure the position of elements in the swarm. Of course such a strategy can further employ arpeggio testing formations to complete a cellular tower inspection in as few passes as possible preferably only one.

According to some embodiments of the disclosed subject matter a Radio Detection and Ranging RADAR system may also be provided in the transceiver unit . This can further facilitate cellular phone tower detection and assessment by using radio waves such that range angle and or velocity of a swarm element relative to the cellular phone tower may be ascertained. Using RADAR further structural and electronic parameters of the cellular phone tower can also be assessed. In some embodiments an unmanned ground vehicle may be equipped with a RADAR transceiver. The swarm of unmanned vehicles to can then be a combination of ground and aerial unmanned vehicles. In another embodiment the swarm of unmanned vehicles to are configured to have phased array transceivers so as to direct transmitted signals towards a specific part of the cellular phone tower . For example communication equipment on a cellular phone tower may be facing the east and thus the unmanned vehicles to have to orient their communication signals in accordance to the position of communication equipment. The unmanned vehicles are directed to adopt a swarming configuration with the control unit positioning each unmanned vehicle appropriately while the transceiver is directed to transmit signals in the direction of the communication equipment on the cellular phone tower . Accordingly the unmanned vehicles may be repositioned to facilitate receiving a response from the cellular phone tower from any direction thereby enabling directional analysis of radiations emanating from the cellular phone tower and assessment of the level of intensity of the signals emanated.

In some embodiments the report generation unit can be configured to generate an inspection report. The inspection report is based on any anomalies arising by comparing any of the aforementioned data collection testing method information with reference information from the cellular phone tower . The inspection report can further include performance parameters determined from signals received by the transceiver in response to signals transmitted toward the cellular phone tower . In some embodiments the assessment unit of the unmanned vehicle can generate a local inspection report. In alternate embodiments the inspection report may also include but is not restricted to a type of structural parameter a type of detection technique used to determine the structural parameter and the like as well as performance parameters relating to communication involving the cellular phone tower . The performance parameters are determined from the intensity of response signal time in which the response was received from the instant a signal was transmitted toward the cellular phone tower .

In some embodiments the transceiver can transmit the inspection report to the central platform through the communication network . Embodiments of the disclosed subject matter are intended to include or otherwise cover any type of techniques including known related art and or later developed technologies to transmit the inspection report to the central platform . The inspection report is sent to the central platform such that performance of the communications equipment and damage attributed to the communication equipment can be quantified. In other embodiments performance and any damage attributed to the communications equipment on the cellular phone tower is determined at the assessment unit based on the local report generated at the assessment unit .

In alternate embodiments the transceiver can transmit the inspection report to the assessment units of other companion unmanned vehicles .

In accordance with at step the unmanned vehicle is positioned by the control unit such that the data collection unit captures for example images of the cellular phone tower . The data collection unit can be any device that uses conventional data detection techniques such as photography to capture images sound light or any other form of information. At step captured data is collated with other unmanned vehicles and a composite data set is formed using the captured data. In some embodiments the captured data could be individual images and the data set could be a compiled stereoscopic image. In other embodiments the captured data could be individual light field data sets SONAR data millimeter wave imaging data terrain feature data such as elevation etc.

At step the data is compared with reference data stored in the database . The reference data is typically an image of the cellular phone tower and can include the areas surrounding the cellular phone tower but could also include data from any of the previously mentioned means such as microwave or sonar reflections digital communication throughput and the like. Subsequently at step an assessment or inspection report based on the comparative data is generated and transmitted to the base station . The inspection report includes on any anomalies arising by comparing the generated data and reference data from the cellular phone tower .

At step the transceiver transmits signals toward the cellular phone tower . The transceiver can use communication methods that can include radio communications based on any frequency spectrum. The unmanned vehicle s can communicate with the cellular phone tower exclusively or collectively from one or more directions. According to some embodiments of the disclosed subject matter the transceiver can communicate with the cellular phone tower from one position and receive a response signal from the cellular phone tower at an alternative position. Additionally and as described above the unmanned vehicle s can reverse roles to cross check communications along different directions with the cellular phone tower and can further do so in multiple configurations of transmitter s receiver s .

At step a response from the cellular phone tower is expected and if received performance parameters from the received signal are determined at step . If the transceiver does not receive any response the assessment unit returns to step .

This process may be repeated multiple times by each unmanned vehicle during the assessment of the cellular phone tower . During each iteration either one or both of a generated assessment or inspection report is performed at step . If there is no response the physical position of the unmanned vehicle or the directionality of the steered transmission beam is modified and the process repeated. The transceiver can send and receive signals from the cellular phone tower at any position so as to assess the radiation patterns of the cellular phone tower . If a signal is not received within a pre determined time period from the instant the transceiver has sent a signal or too many attempts at establishing communication with one or more components and or from one or more directions from the cellular phone tower have resulted in failure the communication equipment is deemed to be faulty.

The assessment report generated by a given unmanned vehicle can be based on any performance parameter determined from the response received by the transceiver . The performance parameters are often determined from at least one of the intensity of response signal the time in which the response signal was received from the instant the signal was transmitted toward the cellular phone tower the transmitted and received frequency data rate and other various communication parameters. The inspection report can be sent to the central platform base station or can be sent to other elements in the swarm for compilation or relay to any other destination. Typically the inspection report will relate that the observed performance of the communications equipment damage attributed to the communication equipment or any other relevant data metric such as structural integrity say based on millimeter wave imaging etc.

According to some other embodiments of the disclosed subject matter and as briefly discussed above another unmanned vehicle swarm operation for the compiling of data of the cellular phone tower could be to perform light field imaging where light emanating from the cellular phone tower as waveforms or photons is collected by the unmanned vehicles . In this situation the unmanned vehicles do not need to focus on any particular object but merely record the direction frequency and or amplitude of light emanating from the cellular tower . By correlating this information between the unmanned vehicles any region of interest may be selectively focused upon at a later time using image processing as light traveling in all directions has already been captured and thereby any perspective point of view anywhere within the light field may be taken by preferentially analyzing some photons in favor of other photons. One way to accomplish this could be to stack unmanned vehicles along X Y and Z axes and compiling data from the light received by each to form a light field data set.

According to some other embodiments of the disclosed subject matter the unmanned vehicles could selectively project separate say laser frequencies from one or more unmanned vehicles towards a tower and receive the interference pattern by a second or more unmanned vehicle. This information could be used to create a three dimensional 3 D holographic image of the cellular phone tower . As discussed above the number of transmitting receiving unmanned vehicle permutations could be up to n 2 for n unmanned vehicles subtracting the all transmitting and all receiving formations . Any of these strategies could be employed to derive extremely high definition images of a cellular phone tower . Each of the fore stated techniques especially millimeter wave imaging could also be processed by the assessment unit or the central platform to determine changes in the atmosphere so that factors such as ozone depletion pollution etc. that might be affecting the cellular phone tower structure or communications throughput may be performed.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

The processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to inspect the objects by using one or more unmanned vehicles. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor . The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. The processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

The computer system also includes a memory coupled to the bus . The memory such as a Random Access Memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for storing information and instructions to be executed by the processor . The dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a Read Only Memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to the bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk a solid state disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for inspecting the objects by using one or more unmanned vehicles is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user a microphone an Infrared IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen a touch screen or a sensor. The sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in the computer system . Other external devices coupled to the bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display such as a Cathode Ray Tube CRT a Liquid Crystal Display LCD a Light Emitting Diode LED display an organic LED OLED display active matrix display Electrophoretic Display EPD a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display and one or more camera sensors for capturing recording and causing to store one or more still and or moving images e.g. videos movies etc. which also may comprise audio recordings. Further the display may be a touch enabled display such as capacitive or resistive screen. In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of the external input device and the display device may be omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an ASIC is coupled to the bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by the processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for the display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

The computer system also includes one or more instances of a communication interface coupled to the bus . The communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example the communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a Universal Serial Bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments the communication interface is an Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN card a Digital Subscriber Line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of a telephone line. In some embodiments the communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on the bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example the communications interface may be a Local Area Network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM network. In one embodiment wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communication interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communication interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communication interface enables connection to the communication network for inspecting the objects by using one or more unmanned vehicles. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a thunderbolt interface a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to the processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include for example the dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves optical or electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a USB flash drive a Blu ray disk a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

The network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example the network link may provide a connection through the local network to a host computer or to ISP equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example the server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at the display . It is contemplated that the components of the computer system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. the host and the server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of the computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in the memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into the memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device or the network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in the memory causes the processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as the ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to the processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as the host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as the communication interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto the bus . The bus carries the information to the memory from which the processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in the memory may optionally be stored on the storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

The unmanned vehicles can also operate as a type of satellite relaying data to and from communications equipment to assess data rate transmission and thereby assess performance damage etc. of the communications equipment. Unmanned vehicle swarms can use electronic assessments to selectively transmit receive signals from different members of the swarm to perform precise directional analysis of signals and then swap transmission and receiving functions without spatially changing to test a reverse direction. Unmanned vehicles and vehicle swarms can use electronic assessments to detect nonlinear signals such as are produced in response to electronically interacting with a nonlinear device cell phone laptop router walkie talkie etc. . These devices are often used in the detonation of improvised explosive devices IED s or could also be expected to be on a missing person vehicle etc.

Unmanned vehicles and vehicle swarms can use electronic assessments to detect changes in the atmosphere to perform atmospheric analysis i.e. ozone levels pollution glacial melting organic growth forest depletion etc. .

While certain embodiments of the invention are described above and disclose the best mode for practicing the various inventive aspects it should be understood that the invention can be embodied and configured in many different ways without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

For example embodiments are disclosed above in the context of an unmanned vehicle. However embodiments are intended to include or otherwise cover any type of unmanned vehicle including an unmanned aerial vehicle an unmanned terrestrial vehicle a drone a gyrocopter etc. In fact embodiments are intended to include or otherwise cover configurations of the unmanned vehicle.

Embodiments are disclosed above in the context of inspecting cellular phone towers. However embodiments are intended to cover any object such as but is not restricted to water towers pylons bridges airports including both tarmac runway and control tower inspections power lines fuel bunkers power plants incarceration facilities damns water plants Amplitude Modulation AM Frequency Modulation FM towers and so forth.

Exemplary embodiments are intended to include or otherwise cover any type of structural parameters of the objects disclosed above.

Exemplary embodiments are also intended to cover any additional or alternative components of the unmanned vehicle disclosed above. Exemplary embodiments are further intended to cover omission of any component of the unmanned vehicle disclosed above.

Embodiments are disclosed above in the context of inspecting commuter rail lines. However embodiments are intended to cover any unmanned non rail guided terrestrial vehicles single rail guided unmanned vehicles and so forth.

Embodiments are also intended to include or otherwise cover the inspection of objects for parcel delivery by using the stereoscopic images. The reason can be beneficial because 3D depth perception increases with the separation of the collaborating unmanned vehicle. By employing two or more unmanned vehicles a fleet of unmanned vehicles can increase the precision of a target location for parcel delivery.

Embodiments are also intended to include or otherwise use stereoscopic images for accurately estimating payload delivery targets for example parcels weapons and the like.

Embodiments are also intended to include or otherwise use stereoscopic images for accurately locating assets for example missing persons errant vehicles and the like.

Embodiments are also intended to include or otherwise use stereoscopic images for ascertaining structural assets or defects such as breaches leaks etc. used to survey entities such as cell towers wind turbines water towers pylons bridges airports both tarmac runway and control tower inspections power lines fuel bunkers power plants incarceration facilities damns water plants AM FM towers etc.

Exemplary embodiments are also intended to include and or otherwise use unmanned vehicle swarms for selectively transmit and or receive optical signals in order to achieve extremely precise holographic images.

Exemplary embodiments are also intended to include and or otherwise a v formation of the unmanned vehicle swarm or a fleet of unmanned vehicles which can cause each of the unmanned vehicles to be well separated. The separation of the unmanned vehicles can allow each of the unmanned vehicles to individually receive and mutually combine images of the objects. However embodiments of the disclosed subject matter are intended to include or otherwise cover any type of formation that may be beneficial.

Embodiments are also intended to include or otherwise cover methods of manufacturing the unmanned vehicle disclosed above. The methods of manufacturing include or otherwise cover processors and computer programs implemented by processors used to design various elements of the unmanned vehicle disclosed above.

Exemplary embodiments are intended to cover all software or computer programs capable of enabling processors to implement the above operations designs and determinations. Exemplary embodiments are also intended to cover any and all currently known related art or later developed non transitory recording or storage mediums such as a CD ROM DVD ROM hard drive RAM ROM floppy disc magnetic tape cassette etc. that record or store such software or computer programs. Exemplary embodiments are further intended to cover such software computer programs systems and or processes provided through any other currently known related art or later developed medium such as transitory mediums carrier waves etc. usable for implementing the exemplary operations of airbag housing assemblies disclosed above.

In accordance with the exemplary embodiments the disclosed computer programs can be executed in many exemplary ways such as an application that is resident in the memory of a device or as a hosted application that is being executed on a server and communicating with the device application or browser via a number of standard protocols such as TCP IP HTTP XML SOAP REST JSON and other sufficient protocols. The disclosed computer programs can be written in exemplary programming languages that execute from memory on the device or from a hosted server such as BASIC COBOL C C Java Pascal or scripting languages such as JavaScript Python Ruby PHP Perl or other sufficient programming languages.

Some of the disclosed embodiments include or otherwise involve data transfer over a network such as communicating various inputs over the network. The network may include for example one or more of the Internet Wide Area Networks WANs Local Area Networks LANs analog or digital wired and wireless telephone networks e.g. a PSTN Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN a cellular network and Digital Subscriber Line xDSL radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery or tunneling mechanism for carrying data. Network may include multiple networks or subnetworks each of which may include for example a wired or wireless data pathway. The network may include a circuit switched voice network a packet switched data network or any other network able to carry electronic communications. For example the network may include networks based on the Internet protocol IP or asynchronous transfer mode ATM and may support voice using for example VoIP Voice over ATM or other comparable protocols used for voice data communications. In one implementation the network includes a cellular telephone network configured to enable exchange of text or SMS messages.

Examples of a network include but are not limited to a personal area network PAN a storage area network SAN a home area network HAN a campus area network CAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a virtual private network VPN an enterprise private network EPN Internet a global area network GAN and so forth.

While the subject matter has been described in detail with reference to exemplary embodiments thereof it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various changes can be made and equivalents employed without departing from the scope of the invention.

