---

title: System and method for grouping and assigning channels in a network system
abstract: System and methods are provided for dynamically assigning wireless channels to priority groups based on characteristics of the channels, the environment in which the channels will be used, regulatory requirements, and/or capabilities of client devices. Thereafter, channels may be intelligently assigned to access points to achieve one or more goals. For example, wireless channels may be assigned to access points to ensure balanced coverage throughout the network system for client devices of each type/capability, to minimize effects of wireless interference in the network system, to increase fault tolerance in the network system, and/or to generally improve the coverage and quality of connections in the network system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09585143&OS=09585143&RS=09585143
owner: Aruba Networks, Inc.
number: 09585143
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160331
---
The present disclosure relates to dynamically categorizing wireless channels based on priorities and assigning channels to access points to ensure well balanced wide coverage of stable channels in a network system.

Over the last decade there has been a substantial increase in the use and deployment of wireless client devices from dual mode smartphones to tablets capable of operating in accordance with a particular Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE standard. With wireless becoming the de facto medium for connectivity among users it has become increasingly important for network systems to intelligently manage connections.

In some systems multiple access points may be used to cover a particular area. Each of these access points may operate using separate wireless channels. However in these traditional systems assignment of channels is performed based on the assumption that each channel is equal. This assumption may result in a network system that fails to adequately support particular client devices and or provides poor network coverage.

The approaches described in this section are approaches that could be pursued but not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated it should not be assumed that any of the approaches described in this section qualify as prior art merely by virtue of their inclusion in this section.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding. One or more embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. Features described in one embodiment may be combined with features described in a different embodiment. In some examples well known structures and devices are described with reference to a block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Herein certain terminology is used to describe features for embodiments of the disclosure. For example the term digital device generally refers to any hardware device that includes processing circuitry running at least one process adapted to control the flow of traffic into the device. Examples of digital devices include a computer a tablet a laptop a desktop a netbook a server a web server an authentication server an authentication authorization accounting AAA server a Domain Name System DNS server a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP server an Internet Protocol IP server a Virtual Private Network VPN server a network policy server a mainframe a television a content receiver a set top box a video gaming console a television peripheral a printer a mobile handset a smartphone a personal digital assistant PDA a wireless receiver and or transmitter an access point a base station a communication management device a router a switch and or a controller.

It is contemplated that a digital device may include hardware logic such as one or more of the following i processing circuitry ii one or more communication interfaces such as a radio e.g. component that handles the wireless data transmission reception and or a physical connector to support wired connectivity and or iii a non transitory computer readable storage medium e.g. a programmable circuit a semiconductor memory such as a volatile memory and or random access memory RAM or non volatile memory such as read only memory power backed RAM flash memory phase change memory or the like a hard disk drive an optical disc drive etc. or any connector for receiving a portable memory device such as a Universal Serial Bus USB flash drive portable hard disk drive or the like.

Herein the terms logic or logic unit are generally defined as hardware and or software. For example as hardware logic may include a processor e.g. a microcontroller a microprocessor a CPU core a programmable gate array an application specific integrated circuit etc. semiconductor memory combinatorial logic or the like. As software logic may be one or more software modules such as executable code in the form of an executable application an application programming interface API a subroutine a function a procedure an object method implementation an applet a servlet a routine source code object code a shared library dynamic load library or one or more instructions. These software modules may be stored in any type of a suitable non transitory storage medium or transitory computer readable transmission medium e.g. electrical optical acoustical or other form of propagated signals such as carrier waves infrared signals or digital signals .

Lastly the terms or and and or as used herein are to be interpreted as inclusive or meaning any one or any combination. Therefore A B or C or A B and or C mean any of the following A B C A and B A and C B and C A B and C. An exception to this definition will occur only when a combination of elements functions steps or acts are in some way inherently mutually exclusive.

The network system may be installed distributed in any region or area. For example the network system may be installed in an office building or another similar structure. The location the network system is installed distributed in defines a network environment. The network environment may be described by various characteristics including size location e.g. country state county city etc. and radio frequency RF characteristics of the area e.g. RF interference or overlap with wireless channels of other systems .

Each element of the network system will be described below by way of example. In one or more embodiments the network system may include more or less devices than the devices illustrated in which may be connected to other devices within the network system via wired and or wireless mediums. For example in other embodiments the network system may include additional access points network controllers and or client devices than those shown in .

The access points may be any device that can associate with the client devices to transmit and receive data over wireless channels. Each of the access points may operate on various wireless channels i.e. frequency segments that are assigned as described in greater detail below. In one embodiment the access points may correspond to a network device such as a wireless access point a switch a router or any combination thereof. shows a component diagram of the access point according to one embodiment. In other embodiments the access points may include similar or identical components to those shown and described in relation to the access point .

As shown in the access point may comprise one or more of a hardware processor data storage an input output I O interface and device configuration logic . Each of these components of the access point will be described in further detail below.

The data storage of the access point may include a fast read write memory for storing programs and data during performance of operations tasks and a hierarchy of persistent memory such as Read Only Memory ROM Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM and or Flash memory for example for storing instructions and data needed for the startup and or operation of the access point . In one embodiment the data storage is a distributed set of data storage components. The data storage may store data that is to be transmitted from the access point or data that is received by the access point . For example the data storage of the access point may store data to be forwarded to the client devices or to one or more of the network controllers .

In one embodiment the I O interface corresponds to one or more components used for communicating with other devices e.g. the client devices the network controllers and or other access points via wired or wireless signals. The I O interface may include a wired network interface such as an IEEE 802.3 Ethernet interface and or a wireless interface such as an IEEE 802.11 WiFi interface. The I O interface may communicate with the client devices and the network controllers over corresponding wireless channels in the system . In one embodiment the I O interface facilitates communications between the access point and one or more of the network controllers through the switching fabric . In one embodiment the switching fabric includes a set of network components that facilitate communications between multiple devices. For example the switching fabric may be composed of one or more switches routers hubs etc. These network components that comprise the switching fabric may operate using both wired and wireless mediums.

In some embodiments the I O interface may include one or more antennas for communicating with the client devices the network controllers and or other wireless devices in the network system . For example multiple antennas may be used for forming transmission beams to one or more of the client devices or the network controllers through adjustment of gain and phase values for corresponding antenna transmissions. The generated beams may avoid objects and create an unobstructed path to the client devices and or the network controllers .

In some embodiments the access point may include multiple radios for performing wireless transmissions. In these embodiments each radio in the access point may be assigned a separate wireless channel as will be described in greater detail below.

In one embodiment the hardware processor is coupled to the data storage and the I O interface . The hardware processor may be any processing device including but not limited to a MIPS ARM class processor a microprocessor a digital signal processor an application specific integrated circuit a microcontroller a state machine or any type of programmable logic array.

In one embodiment the device configuration logic includes one or more functional units implemented using firmware hardware software or a combination thereof for configuring parameters associated with the access point . In one embodiment the device configuration logic may be configured to allow the access point to associate with different client devices .

As described above the other access points may be similarly configured as described above in relation to access point . For example the access points may each comprise a hardware processor data storage an input output I O interface and device configuration logic in a similar fashion as described above in relation to the access point .

In one embodiment the client devices may be any wireless or wired electronic devices capable of receiving and transmitting data over wired and wireless mediums. For example the client devices may be one or more of personal computers laptop computers netbook computers wireless music players portable telephone communication devices smart phones tablets and digital televisions. In one embodiment the client devices are digital devices that include a hardware processor memory hierarchy and input output I O interfaces including a wired and or wireless interface such as an IEEE 802.3 interface. In one embodiment the configuration of the components within the client devices may be similar to those discussed above in relation to the access point . In other embodiments the client devices may include more or less components than those shown in in relation to the access point .

The client devices may be configured to operate on a set of frequency channels. For example one or more of the client devices may be equipped configured to operate on Dynamic Frequency Selection DFS channels while other client devices are unable to operate on these DFS channels. Accordingly the network system must be configured to assign wireless channels to access points to ensure balanced coverage throughout the network system for client devices of each type to minimize effects of wireless interference in the network system or wireless channel overlap with other higher priority systems to increase fault tolerance in the network system and or to generally improve the coverage and quality of connections in the network system .

In one embodiment the network controllers are digital devices that include a hardware processor memory hierarchy and input output I O interfaces including a wired and or wireless interface such as an IEEE 802.3 interface. In one embodiment the configuration of the components within the network controllers may be similar to those discussed above in relation to the access point . In other embodiments the network controllers may include more or less components than those shown in in relation to the access point .

In one embodiment the network controllers may be any set of devices that assist the access points in performing network tasks and operations. For example the network controllers may assist in grouping and assigning wireless channels to access points in the network system . Grouping and assignment of wireless channels may be performed based on various characteristics and or factors. For example the characteristics and or factors may include client device capabilities e.g. support for DFS channels interference susceptibility overlap of channels with other wireless systems operating on the same channels frequencies e.g. DFS channels may operate on the same frequencies as Radio Detection and Ranging RADAR and channel regulatory requirements e.g. equivalent isotropically radiated power EIRP regulatory requirements . The different processes and techniques for dynamically grouping and assigning wireless channels to access points will be discussed in greater detail below.

Although discussed above in relation to assignment of wireless channels to access points in some embodiments one or more of the access points may include multiple radios that may operate on separate wireless channels i.e. operate on separate frequencies . In these embodiments each radio in each of the access points may be assigned a separate wireless channel. In some embodiments channel grouping and or assignment may take into account that multiple radios are included in a single access point . For example a process for assigning channels to radios access points may avoid assignment of multiple low priority or multiple high priority wireless channels to radios within the same access point . In this fashion wireless channel diversity based on priority level may be improved for areas surrounding each access point .

Although each of the operations in the method are shown and described in a particular order in other embodiments the operations of the method may be performed in a different order. For example although the operations of the method are shown as being performed sequentially in other embodiments the operations of the method may be performed concurrently or during partially overlapping time periods.

In the description of the method that follows it is assumed that each access point includes a single radio. In this scenario assignment of wireless channels to access points is understood to be in relation to each radio within these access points . In other embodiments the method may be similarly applied to access points with multiple radios such that each radio in each access point is individually analyzed for assignment of a corresponding wireless channel.

In one embodiment the method may commence at operation with the determining of the layout of the access points in the network environment in which the network system is installed. For example the network system including the access points may be installed in an office building or another structure. shows an example set of access points installed in an office building . In this embodiment the office building defines the network environment in which the access points are installed.

In one embodiment operation may determine the layout of the access points in the network environment based on signal strength values from wireless signals transmitted and detected by the access points . For example the access points may each emit a set of wireless signals in the network environment. These wireless signals may be for the purpose of transmitting data between the corresponding access points and another device and unrelated to the determination of access point layout e.g. application data and or control signals transmitted over an established connection between an access point and another wireless device or the wireless signals may be emitted for the purpose of determining access point layout. Upon detection of these wireless signals an access point may determine a power level of the received signal. Together with a known transmission power of the wireless signals the signal strength values may be used to determine the distance separating the access points and direction of each access point relative to each other in the network environment. In one embodiment the signal strength indicators corresponding to these wireless signals may be received signal strength indicator RSSI values.

In another embodiment the layout of the access points may be determined based on a pre populated access point configuration table or another data structure which describes the physical layout of the access points in the network environment. For example a system administrator may populate a table with a set of distance values and angle measurements describing the arrangement of the access points in the network environment. This access point layout table may have been populated during installation of the access points in the network environment.

As noted above determination of the layout of the access points may include the angle direction and distance between the access points . In one embodiment this information may be used to determine neighbor relationships between access points . Two access points may share a neighbor relationship when there is a direct line of sight between the two access points without any intermediary access points between the two neighboring access points . For example in the access points and share a neighboring relationship. Similarly the access points and share a neighboring relationship. As noted above this neighbor relationship between access points maybe determined by distance and or angle measurements while in other embodiments a pre populated table may explicitly define neighbors for each access point .

In one embodiment neighborhoods of access points may be designated based on continuous sets of neighboring access points . For example shows a set of neighborhoods which are designated by dashed boxes. shows a separate set of neighborhoods for the same set of access points . Accordingly neighborhoods may be variably defined within a network system . These neighborhoods may be used as a basis for channel assignment as will be described in greater detail below. In one embodiment neighborhoods may be defined in a pre populated table.

In one embodiment layout information determined at operation may also be used to determine edge access points . Edge access points are access points that lie on the outside boundaries of the network environment. For example in the access points and may be considered edge access points based on their location around the periphery of the network environment in contrast to the access points and which are nested within the perimeter created by the edge access points and .

At operation characteristics of the network environment may be determined. The characteristics of the network environment may include detection of the presence of radio frequency RF interference or wireless channel overlap with other higher priority systems. For example microwave interference i.e. electromagnetic interference at approximately 2.4 GHz may be detected within the network environment. The microwave interference may be caused by one or more of a telephone a baby monitor a Bluetooth device a car alarm a microwave oven and other devices that operate at or around 2.4 GHz or emit radio waves at or around 2.4 GHz. This microwave interference may affect certain wireless channels more than other channels. For example IEEE 802.11b g n may operate between 2.412 GHz and 2.484 GHz with 16.25 MHz to 22 MHz of channel separation. In this situation microwave interference may affect particular wireless channels i.e. frequency ranges more severely than other wireless channels. Accordingly operation may indicate the range of wireless channels and or frequency ranges that are affected by detected microwave interference in the network environment.

In one embodiment operation may detect signals from RADAR systems and or military systems operating or generating wireless signals around 5 GHz. For example operation may detect wireless signals from other systems in the 5.250 GHz 5.350 GHz and 5.470 GHz 5.725 GHz spectrums. Wireless signals in these frequency ranges may be the product of RADAR e.g. Terminal Doppler Weather RADAR TDWR systems and or military systems. Additionally wireless signals from RADAR and military systems may affect certain wireless channels more than other channels. Accordingly operation may indicate the range of wireless channels and or frequency ranges that are affected by detected RADAR and military system wireless signals in the network environment i.e. wireless channels used by RADAR and military system .

Although described in relation to wireless signals from RADAR and military systems in other embodiments wireless signals that overlap with frequencies used by the network system may be generated by other sources that are detected at operation . Accordingly the description above is purely for illustrative purposes and in other embodiments operation may detect all forms of other wireless signals active in the network environment which may affect wireless channel performance.

At operation the capabilities of the client devices may be determined. In one embodiment the capabilities may be relative to currently associated client devices in the network system while in other embodiments capabilities may be determined relative to historical trends or analysis of client devices associated with access points in the network system .

In one embodiment the capabilities of the client devices may include the ability to support Dynamic Frequency Selection DFS channels. DFS is the process of detecting RADAR signals which based on government regulations must be protected against 5.0 GHz interference e.g. IEEE 802.11a n ac radios . Upon detection of 5.0 GHz interference DFS causes access points to switch the operating frequency of the 5.0 GHz radio to a channel that is not being used by the nearby RADAR or military systems. Transmission Power Control TPC may also be used to adapt the transmission power of a radio based on regulatory requirements and range information to further avoid this overlapping with frequencies used with RADAR or military systems.

Originally the 5 GHz band had a total of nine 20 MHz non DFS channels in the United States i.e. channels that do not overlap with frequencies being used by RADAR and or military systems . However after the introduction of 40 MHz channels in IEEE 802.11n and 80 MHz in IEEE 802.11ac the number of available non DFS channels has reduced significantly. Currently only four 40 MHz non DFS channels or two 80 MHZ channels are present in these standards. These newly available widths cause non DFS channels to be crowded. This is especially evident in highly dense network environments. In order to solve this density issue network administrators either attempted to disable 40 MHz and 80 Mhz channels or began to utilize DFS channels. However each of these solutions may pose issues.

In particular when 40 MHz and 80 Mhz channels are disabled client devices may not enjoy the high speed experience provided by these channel widths. Further if DFS channels are exclusively or significantly used client devices that do not support DFS channels may suffer. Namely if all access points proximate to a DFS incapable client device are on DFS channels this DFS incapable client device will either not see a SSID or connect to a faraway access point on a non DFS channel. Connecting to a faraway access point may result in the client device experiencing latency issues or a generally poor user experience. To better address these issues the method may intelligently distribute assign wireless channels to access points in the network environment such that balanced coverage may be achieved for the capabilities of client devices represented in the network system . Techniques for channel distribution will be described in greater detail below.

In some embodiments other capabilities of the client devices may be determined at operation . For example operation may determine channels that are not supported by client devices . Channel support may be based on current client devices in the network system historic averages of client devices associating with access points within the network system and or general client device channel support.

At operation regulatory requirements for the network environment may be determined. The regulatory requirements may include 1 DFS channel restrictions and procedures for handling DFS channel assignment 2 equivalent isotropically radiated power EIRP regulatory requirements i.e. regulations that indicate EIRP levels for particular channels and or 3 the set of legally allowed wireless local area network channels in the network environment e.g. the available channels using IEEE 802.11 protocols . In one embodiment these regulatory requirements may be determined based on the location of the network system e.g. the country state country and or city of the network system and may be determined by querying a remote regulatory server or by examining regulations previously stored in memory e.g. the data storage .

As noted above one or more of the operations in the method may be performed in a different order than shown and described. For example operations and may be performed in a different order including during partially or fully overlapping time periods.

Following the determination of the layout of the access points at operation the determination of characteristics of the network environment at operation the determination of the capabilities of client devices at operation and the determination of the regulatory requirements of the network environment at operation operation may assign each available wireless channel into groups. In one embodiment these groups may indicate the priority of associated wireless channels. For example the channels 1 11 corresponding to the 2.4 GHz spectrum and the channels 36 40 44 48 52 56 60 64 100 104 108 112 116 132 136 140 149 153 157 161 and 165 corresponding to the 5 GHz spectrum may be available for assignment to access points . Table 1 below shows the center frequency of these channels.

The above channels are 20 MHz wide channels however in other embodiments other channels and or frequencies may be used e.g. 40 MHz or 80 MHz . In this example set of channels shown above each channel may be assigned to priority groups based on characteristics of the channels characteristics of the network environment and or regulatory requirements for the network environment. For example channels that are especially prone to RF interference caused by nearby devices may be assigned to a lower priority group. RF interference may be microwave interference e.g. caused by one or more of a telephone a baby monitor a Bluetooth device a car alarm a microwave oven and other devices that operate at 2.4 GHz or emitting radio waves at 2.4 GHz . In other embodiments channels that overlap with frequencies being used by higher priority systems may cause assignment of a lower priority to these channels e.g. DFS channels operating on RADAR military system frequencies .

In one embodiment the determination of channels that are prone to interference may be determined based on the characteristics of the network environment which was determined at operation . In this embodiment the RF characteristics of the network environment may be examined to determine particular frequency ranges for which RF interference is present. Upon the detection of interference in the frequency range of a particular set of channels these channels may be assigned to a low priority group. For example upon detecting RF interference in the network environment in the range of 2412 Hz 2427 Hz operation may determine that channels 1 4 corresponding to this frequency range in Table 1 will be affected. Accordingly operation may assign the channels 1 4 to a low priority group since these channels may be prone to RF interference in the current network environment.

In another example the network environment characteristics determined at operation may include a detection of RADAR signals. In this embodiment DFS channels may be affected by these RADAR signals. Upon the detection of RADAR signals operation may assign one or more DFS channels to low priority groups. In one embodiment only DFS channels in frequency ranges in which RADAR signals are detected may be assigned to low priority groups.

Although described as assignment of channels to groups based on current RF conditions in the network environment in one embodiment assignment of channels may be based on typical and or historic conditions. For example channels that have historically experienced interference in the network environment and or in other network environments may be assigned to low priority groups.

Operation may also assign channels to groups based on low support by the client devices . For example operation may determine that one or more of the client devices may not support DFS channels. Accordingly DFS channels may be moved to lower priority groups based on the level of support by the client devices . Conversely high support for particular channels may cause these popular channels to be assigned to higher priority groups.

In some embodiments assignment of channels to priority groups may be performed to ensure some coverage for these types of channels in higher priority groups. For example in some embodiments upon determining that only a few client devices support DFS channels a corresponding few DFS channels may be assigned to higher priority channel groups and each remaining DFS channel may be assigned to lower priority groups. Accordingly DFS channels may ensure some coverage in the network system without over representation of these low supported channels.

Although described in relation to support of the client devices currently operating within the network system in some embodiments typical and or historic support for channels may be used for channel assignment. For example channels that are historically supported by most wireless devices may be assigned to higher priority groups while channels that are historically supported by only a small number of wireless devices may be assigned to lower priority groups. This historic analysis may be in relation to the current network system and or other network systems.

In one embodiment channels may be assigned to groups at operation based on high or low equivalent isotropically radiated power EIRP regulatory levels. For example particular channels may be regulated by country state county or city ordinances that restrict power levels for these channels above a particular amount. Channels that have EIRP levels that are below a particular threshold may be assigned to a lower priority group at operation . In contrast channels that have EIRP levels that are above a particular threshold may be assigned to a higher priority group at operation .

In one embodiment the grouping of channels may be stored in a table or another data structure at operation . For example Table 2 includes a field column indicating the group assigned to each wireless channel. In this example four groups of decreasing priority are listed i.e. group 1 has a higher priority than group 2 .

Although factors and criteria for assigning channels to groups have been described individually above in some embodiments two or more sets of factors and criteria may be used for assigning wireless channels to priority groups. For example the presence absence of interference in the frequency range of a channel along with the capability of the client devices to support the channel may be used for wireless channel priority group assignment at operation .

In some embodiments special conditions may be made to ensure particular channels are represented in higher or lower priority groups. For example in some embodiments a special condition may be established to ensure that at least one or more DFS channels are placed in a higher priority group. This assignment may be made to ensure are least one access point is assigned a DFS channel in a later assignment operation.

Following assignment of the channels to priority groups operation may assign channels from the priority groups to access points . The techniques for assigning channels to access points may be based on various factors and criteria. Several example techniques will be described in detail below. However in other embodiments other techniques may be used in addition to those described below for assigning wireless channels to access points .

In the description of operation that follows it is assumed that each access point includes a single radio. In this scenario assignment of wireless channels to access points is understood to be in relation to each radio within these access points . In other embodiments operation may be similarly applied to access points with multiple radios such that each radio in each access point is individually analyzed for assignment of a corresponding wireless channel.

In one embodiment operation may assign channels from priority groups to ensure efficient channel distribution among neighboring access points . In this embodiment the layout of the access points including the neighboring relationships between access points determined at operation may be used to assign wireless channels. For example sets of neighboring access points may be examined as a neighborhood as shown in and . In this example no neighborhood may have a higher concentration of channels from low priority groups and or or a higher concentration of channels from high priority groups than any other neighborhoods. For instance using the priority groups in Table 2 and the neighborhoods in if the access points and define a first neighborhood and the access points and define a second neighborhood operation may assign an equal number of channels from the high priority groups 1 and 2 to both the access points and in the first neighborhood and the access points and in the second neighborhood. Similarly operation may assign an equal number of channels from the low priority groups 3 and 4 to both the access points and in the first neighborhood and the access points and in the second neighborhood. In this example assignment from lower priority groups may only be performed after channels from higher priority groups have been exhausted. In some embodiments the number of channels in each group from each neighborhood does not need to be equal but instead must be within some difference threshold in comparison to other groups.

In one embodiment operation may assign channels from priority groups to ensure balanced coverage of high priority channels throughout the network environment. In this embodiment high priority channels are assigned to access points such that at least one high priority channel is available to most if not all locations in the network environment. For example operation may examine the layout of access points determined at operation to establish the expected coverage area of each of these access points . Upon establishing coverage areas of each access point including overlapping wireless coverage operation may determine a distribution of wireless channels from the priority group 1 and or the priority group 2 e.g. the high priority channel groups such that the percentage of area covered by high priority channels is maximized. After distribution of high priority channels remaining access points may be assigned a wireless channel from the remaining lower priority groups e.g. groups 3 and 4 .

As noted above in some embodiments one or more of the access points may include multiple radios that may operate on separate wireless channels i.e. operate on separate frequencies . In these embodiments each radio in each of the access points may be assigned a separate wireless channel. In some embodiments channel assignment may take into account that multiple radios are included in a single access point . For example operation may avoid assignment of multiple low priority or multiple high priority wireless channels to radios within the same access point . In this fashion wireless channel diversity based on priority level may be improved for areas surrounding each access point .

Although described above as assigning both channels from high priority and low priority groups in some embodiments channels from low priority groups may only be assigned when channels from higher priority groups fail to meet one or more criteria. For example one or more channels from a low priority group may be necessary to meet a performance threshold provide network availability for each client device a minimum throughput threshold a maximum bandwidth threshold a maximum congestion level etc.

In one embodiment operation may assign channels from priority groups to ensure increased fault tolerance in the network system . In this embodiment channels in lower priority groups may be surrounded by channels from higher priority groups. For example the access points and in may be assigned channels from the groups 1 and 2 while access points and may be assigned channels from the groups 3 and 4. In this fashion the access points and with high priority channels may surround the access points and with low priority channels. By surrounding low priority channels with high priority channels operation may ensure that any faults or quality issues that may occur on low priority channels e.g. the channels in the groups 3 and 4 may be overcome by nearby high priority channels. As noted above in relation to operation these high priority channels are less likely affected by interference or other problems that may cause deterioration in the quality of coverage. Further these high priority channels may be highly compatible with more client devices . However by still allowing lower priority channels to be assigned to access points the method ensures wide support for many different types of client devices .

In one embodiment channel assignment at operation may be performed based on the location of the access points in the network environment. In this embodiment the layout of the access points determined at operation may be used for assigning channels. For example channels in higher priority groups may be assigned to edge access points while non edge access points may be assigned channels from low priority groups. For instance the access points and in may be considered edge access points based on their location around the periphery of the network environment in contrast to the access points and which are nested within the perimeter created by the edge access points and . These edge access points and may be assigned wireless channel from high priority groups while the non edge access points and may be assigned wireless channels from low priority groups. As noted above channels in low priority groups may be more susceptible to interference or frequency overlap from externals sources. By nesting low priority channels which are sensitive to interference inside the network environment low priority channels are less likely to be affected by interference since these access points and are more distant from possible sources of interference.

Although the example techniques provided above are discussed individually in some embodiments multiple techniques and or factors may be used at operation for assignment of channels to access points . For example in some embodiments channel assignment to access points may ensure both balanced distribution of channels from each group and increased fault tolerance based on the locations of the access points . For example shows a set of access points and a client device . In this example the client device may be DFS incapable. In this situation operation may ensure that edge access points and do not use DFS channels. This prevents the situation where the client device is in a corner location as shown in and the closest available access point is the access point . Since the access point may be relatively far from the client device connection quality issues may be a problem for the client device . Further operation may ensure that neighboring access points are not both on DFS channels. For example if both access points and are on DFS channels and both the access points and are on non DFS channels and the client device is situated as shown in the client device will attempt to associate with one of the access points and which is considerably farther away from the client device in comparison to the access points and . Accordingly even though an even number of access points may be assigned high low priority channels e.g. non DFS and DFS channels in a particular neighborhood assigning neighboring access points to either high or low priority channels e.g. non DFS or DFS channels may create quality issues i.e. increased faults . Accordingly in the access points may be alternatively assigned DFS channels to ensure full coverage for the client device while roaming through the network environment.

Further in one embodiment a client device shown in may be associated with the access point . In this embodiment the client device may not support any of the other channels on which other proximate access points are operating. In this situation operation should not alter the channel assignment for the access point with which the client device is associated as this reassignment may cause the client device to be unable to associate with a proximate access point or . In turn this may cause connectivity issues for the client devices .

In one embodiment operation may steer client devices to less crowded access points . For example access points may be assigned DFS and non DFS channels at operation . In some situations since many client devices may not support DFS channels the non DFS channels access points may become heavily crowded with both DFS capable client devices and DFS incapable client devices . To alleviate this overcrowding on non DFS channels operation may steer DFS capable client devices to access points using DFS channels.

As described above the method may assign wireless channels to priority groups based on characteristics of the channels the environment in which the channels will be used regulatory requirements and or capabilities of the client devices . Thereafter channels may be intelligently assigned to access points to achieve one or more goals. For example wireless channels may be assigned to access points to ensure balanced coverage throughout the network system for client devices of each type capability to minimize effects of wireless interference in the network system to increase fault tolerance in the network system and or to generally improve the coverage and quality of connections in the network system .

An embodiment of the invention may be an article of manufacture in which a machine readable medium such as microelectronic memory has stored thereon instructions which program one or more data processing components generically referred to here as a processor to perform the operations described above. In other embodiments some of these operations might be performed by specific hardware components that contain hardwired logic e.g. dedicated digital filter blocks and state machines . Those operations might alternatively be performed by any combination of programmed data processing components and fixed hardwired circuit components. Also although the discussion focuses on uplink medium control with respect to frame aggregation it is contemplated that control of other types of messages is applicable.

Any combination of the above features and functionalities may be used in accordance with one or more embodiments. In the foregoing specification embodiments have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The sole and exclusive indicator of the scope of the invention and what is intended by the applicants to be the scope of the invention is the literal and equivalent scope of the set of claims that issue from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction.

