---

title: Channel based communication and transaction system
abstract: System and methods are provided for receiving identification information from remote user devices associated with users. The identification information serves to obtain corresponding stored user profiles. Primary communication channels are generated for each user based upon their profiles. Each such primary channel is limited to communication with, and facilitates electronic communication between, a single corresponding enterprise data source, and users. For each respective primary channel in a subset of the primary channels of a first user, a corresponding plurality of sub-channels is generated based upon their profile. Each such plurality of sub-channels forms a corresponding hierarchical tree with the corresponding primary channel as root node and the sub-channels as child nodes. A sub-channel in a hierarchy of sub-channels enables secure bidirectional communication between (i) the remote user device associated with the first user and (ii) the enterprise data source associated with the primary channel of the hierarchy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09450901&OS=09450901&RS=09450901
owner: Pypestream Inc.
number: 09450901
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160325
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 137 843 entitled Channel Based Communication And Transaction System filed Mar. 25 2015 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 265 988 entitled Bidirectional Communication And Message Processing filed Dec. 11 2015 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 264 850 entitled Message Aggregation And Processing filed Dec. 8 2015 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to secure mobile communications platforms that list enterprise data sources as primary communication channels in searchable catalogs. Users connect to primary communication channels through such catalogs and in so doing engage in secure bidirectional communication with enterprise data sources thereby enabling the enterprise data sources to respond directly or broadcast messages to users.

Enterprise data sources use different types of communication systems to connect with end users such as consumers. For example some enterprise data sources rely on electronic mail email telephone etc. to communicate with consumers who in turn can respond to the enterprise data sources. However email communication systems are more than two decades old not secure typically laced with spam a primary deliverer of viruses cluttered error prone and a cause for disconnects between enterprise data sources and consumers. Anyone who has tried to obtain customer support using a telephone system will appreciate that calls centers do not improve the situation. A consumer must listen to numerous recorded messages navigate through countless menus and start all over if there is a single incorrect number entered. Moreover the consume once lucky enough to reach a live operator is often transferred often more than once each time providing countless security credentials in order to provide some modicum of security to the call. Thus typical communication systems do not facilitate direct and secure performance of transactions with consumers.

Hence there is a long felt but unresolved need for computer implemented systems and methods that replace conventional email communication systems and call in systems and facilitates secure bidirectional communication and transactions with consumers in real time.

The present disclosure addresses the above identified shortcomings. Systems and methods are provided for receiving identification information from remote user devices associated with users. The identification information serves to obtain corresponding stored user profiles for the users. Primary communication channels are generated for each user based upon such profiles. In typical embodiments such primary communication channels are already preexisting and the act of generating a primary communication channel from the user perspective means joining the primary communication channel and from the enterprise data source perspective means adding the user to the pre existing primary communication channel. Each such primary channel is limited to communication with and facilitates electronic communication between a single corresponding enterprise data source e.g. businesses and users.

For each respective primary channel in a subset of the primary channels associated with a first user a corresponding plurality of sub channels is generated based upon their profile. Here again in typical embodiments such sub channels are pre existing and the act of generating a sub channel channel from the user perspective means joining the sub channel and from the enterprise data source perspective means adding a conversation between the enterprises data source and the user to the pre existing sub channel. Each such plurality of sub channels forms a corresponding hierarchical tree with the corresponding primary channel as root node and the sub channels as child nodes. In other words each primary channel of each enterprise data source is associated with a plurality of sub channels organized into a hierarchy. A sub channel in a hierarchy of sub channels enables secure bidirectional communication between i the remote user device associated with the first user and ii the enterprise data source associated with the primary channel of the hierarchy. More specifically a sub channel in a hierarchy of sub channels enables a plurality of conversations and each such conversation has secure bidirectional conversation between i a single remote user device associated with the first user and ii the enterprise data source associated with the primary channel of the hierarchy. Thus an enterprise data source may invoke a number of sub channels each such sub channel hosting a plurality of conversations but each such conversation limited to the enterprise data source e.g. an automated human interface module associated with the sub channel or a live operator associated with the enterprise data source . With such a platform users connect to primary communication channels and in so doing interact with enterprise data sources in secure bidirectional communication enabling enterprise data sources to respond directly or broadcast messages to their entire audience of users.

One aspect of the present disclosure provides a method comprising at a server system comprising one or more processors and memory receiving identification information from a remote user device associated with a first user. The identification information for the first user comprises a unique identifier for the first user. The unique identifier is used to obtain characteristic information from a user profile corresponding to the first user that is stored in one or more data stores. The first user is joined to a plurality of pre existing primary communication channels based upon the user profile information for the first user. Each primary communication channel in the plurality of primary communication channels is limited to communication with a single corresponding enterprise data source in a plurality of enterprise data sources and facilitates electronic communication between the single corresponding enterprise data source and the first user. Each primary communication channel in the plurality of communication channels hosts a different plurality of users. In the method for each respective primary communication channel in at least a subset of the plurality of primary communication channels associated with the first user the first user is joined to a corresponding plurality of pre existing sub channels based upon the user profile information for the first user. In some embodiments this is done automatically without human intervention. The plurality of sub channels form a corresponding hierarchical tree in which the corresponding primary communication channel is a root node and the plurality of sub channels are child nodes. A sub channel in each of the corresponding hierarchy of sub channels enables a secure bidirectional conversation between i a remote user device associated with the first user and ii the enterprise data source associated with the primary communication channel of the corresponding hierarchical tree. In this way secure exchange of a first plurality of messages between the corresponding enterprise data source and the remote user device associated with the first user within the sub channel is facilitated. The sub channel hosts a plurality of conversations each conversation in the plurality of conversations limited to the corresponding enterprise data source and a different single user in a plurality of users. In some embodiments unique identifier of the first user is a contact number of the user. In some embodiments a depth of a hierarchical tree associated with a primary communication channel in the plurality of primary communication channels is N where N is a positive integer greater than one e.g. N is two N is three N is four or greater etc. .

The present disclosure relates generally to the field of secure mobile communications in which enterprise data sources are listed as primary communication channels in searchable catalogs. Users connect to primary communication channels through such catalogs and in so doing engage in secure bidirectional communication with enterprise data sources thereby enabling the enterprise data sources to respond directly to users.

Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components circuits and networks have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the embodiments.

It will also be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first subject could be termed a second subject and similarly a second subject could be termed a first subject without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. The first subject and the second subject are both subjects but they are not the same subject. Furthermore the terms subject and user are used interchangeably herein.

The terminology used in the present disclosure is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used in the description of the invention and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will also be understood that the term and or as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

As used herein the term if may be construed to mean when or upon or in response to determining or in response to detecting depending on the context. Similarly the phrase if it is determined or if a stated condition or event is detected may be construed to mean upon determining or in response to determining or upon detecting the stated condition or event or in response to detecting the stated condition or event depending on the context.

A detailed description of a system which enables bidirectional communication between users and enterprise data sources in accordance with the present disclosure is described in conjunction with . As such collectively illustrate the topology of the system in accordance with the present disclosure. In the topology there is a secure mobile communications platform enterprise data sources that provide customer services and products to users through the secure mobile communications platform and remote user devices associated with users that consume such customer services and products .

Of course other topologies of system are possible for instance secure mobile communications platform can in fact constitute several computers that are linked together in a network or be a virtual machine in a cloud computing context. As such the exemplary topology shown in merely serves to describe the features of an embodiment of the present disclosure in a manner that will be readily understood to one of skill in the art.

Referring to in typical embodiments a secure mobile communications platform comprises one or more computers. For purposes of illustration in the secure mobile communications platform is represented as a single computer that includes all of the functionality of the secure mobile communications platform . However the disclosure is not so limited. The functionality of the secure mobile communications platform may be spread across any number of networked computers and or reside on each of several networked computers and or by hosted on one or more virtual machines at a remote location accessible across the communications network . One of skill in the art will appreciate that a wide array of different computer topologies are possible for the secure mobile communications platform and all such topologies are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Turning to with the foregoing in mind a secure mobile communications platform comprises one or more processing units CPU s a network or other communications interface a memory e.g. random access memory one or more magnetic disk storage and or persistent devices optionally accessed by one or more controllers one or more communication busses for interconnecting the aforementioned components and a power supply for powering the aforementioned components. Data in memory can be seamlessly shared with non volatile memory using known computing techniques such as caching. Memory and or memory can include mass storage that is remotely located with respect to the central processing unit s . In other words some data stored in memory and or memory may in fact be hosted on computers that are external to the secure mobile communications platform but that can be electronically accessed by the secure mobile communications platform over an Internet intranet or other form of network or electronic cable illustrated as element in using network interface .

In some embodiments communications module S is a web application. Advantageously in such embodiments since it is a web application it is accessible on any browser phone tablet laptop desktop such as remote user device of . In some embodiments communications module runs on native device frameworks and is available for download onto remote user device running operating systems e.g. iOS DARWIN RTXC LINUX UNIX OS X WINDOWS or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks .

In some embodiments sub channels support channel based bidirectional communication which is a two way duplex communication for example a business to consumer B2C communication. The channel based bidirectional communication comprises communication of content associated with multiple topics or subjects via multiple primary communication channels and or sub channels . Furthermore the channel based bidirectional communication comprises performance of one or more transactions via the sub channels. In some embodiments sub channels are configured for mobile chat that replaces electronic mail email for business to consumer communication. This mobile chat takes the form of conversations each having a conversation identifier and each limited to the enterprise data source and a single end user. In some embodiment the primary channels and sub channels are implemented in a cloud computing environment. As used herein cloud computing environment refers to a processing environment comprising configurable computing physical and logical resources for example networks servers storage applications services etc. and data distributed over a network for example the Internet. The cloud computing environment provides on demand network access to a shared pool of the configurable computing physical and logical resources.

In some implementations one or more of the above identified data elements or modules of the secure mobile communications platform is stored in one or more of the previously described memory devices and correspond to a set of instructions for performing a function described above. The above identified data modules or programs e.g. sets of instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules and thus various subsets of these modules may be combined or otherwise re arranged in various implementations. In some implementations the memory and or optionally stores a subset of the modules and data structures identified above. Furthermore in some embodiments the memory and or stores additional modules and data structures not described above.

Referring to in some embodiments an enterprise data source includes a server computer having one or more processing units CPU s a network or other communications interface a memory e.g. random access memory a user interface the user interface including a display and input e.g. keyboard keypad touch screen one or more communication busses for interconnecting the aforementioned components and a power system for powering the aforementioned components. It should be appreciated that the enterprise data source depicted in is only one example of an enterprise data source and that the enterprise data source optionally has more or fewer components than shown in optionally combines two or more components or optionally has a different configuration or arrangement of the components. Moreover it will be appreciated that an enterprise data source may use any number of computers to support the disclosed systems and methods. The various components shown in are implemented in hardware software firmware or a combination thereof including one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits.

Thus details a primary communication source which includes a primary communication channel and a plurality of sub channel . End users associated with remote user devices participate in conversations in sub channels . Each such conversation is between a single end user and the enterprise data source . However each sub channel may host a plurality of such conversations. To ensure the privacy of these conversations each conversation has an identifier and only one end user has access rights to the conversation whereas the enterprise data source has access rights to all the conversations. In some embodiments a sub channel hosts ten or more conversations one hundred or more conversations or one thousand or more conversations .

In some embodiments the input is a touch sensitive display such as a touch sensitive surface. In some embodiments the user interface includes one or more soft keyboard embodiments. The soft keyboard embodiments may include standard QWERTY and or non standard configurations of symbols on the displayed icons.

Device optionally includes in addition to accelerometer s a magnetometer not shown and a GPS or GLONASS or other global navigation system receiver for obtaining information concerning the location and orientation e.g. portrait or landscape of device .

It should be appreciated that device is only one example of a multifunction device that may be used by end users when engaging with the secure mobile communications platform and that device optionally has more or fewer components than shown optionally combines two or more components or optionally has a different configuration or arrangement of the components. The various components shown in are implemented in hardware software firmware or a combination thereof including one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits.

Memory optionally includes high speed random access memory and optionally also includes non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices flash memory devices or other non volatile solid state memory devices. Access to memory by other components of device such as CPU s is optionally controlled by memory controller .

Peripherals interface can be used to couple input and output peripherals of the device to CPU s and memory . The one or more processors run or execute various software programs and or sets of instructions stored in memory to perform various functions for device and to process data.

In some embodiments peripherals interface CPU s and memory controller are optionally implemented on a single chip. In some other embodiments they are optionally implemented on separate chips.

RF radio frequency circuitry of network interface receives and sends RF signals also called electromagnetic signals. RF circuitry converts electrical signals to from electromagnetic signals and communicates with communications networks and other communications devices via the electromagnetic signals. RF circuitry optionally includes well known circuitry for performing these functions including but not limited to an antenna system an RF transceiver one or more amplifiers a tuner one or more oscillators a digital signal processor a CODEC chipset a subscriber identity module SIM card memory and so forth. RF circuitry optionally communicates with networks . In some embodiments circuitry does not include RF circuitry and in fact is connected to network through one or more hard wires e.g. an optical cable a coaxial cable or the like .

Examples of networks include but are not limited to the World Wide Web WWW an intranet and or a wireless network such as a cellular telephone network a wireless local area network LAN and or a metropolitan area network MAN and other devices by wireless communication. The wireless communication optionally uses any of a plurality of communications standards protocols and technologies including but not limited to Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE high speed downlink packet access HSDPA high speed uplink packet access HSUPA Evolution Data Only EV DO HSPA HSPA Dual Cell HSPA DC HSPDA long term evolution LTE near field communication NFC wideband code division multiple access W CDMA code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA Bluetooth Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi e.g. IEEE 802.11a IEEE 802.11ac IEEE 802.11ax IEEE 802.11b IEEE 802.11g and or IEEE 802.11n voice over Internet Protocol VoIP Wi MAX a protocol for e mail e.g. Internet message access protocol IMAP and or post office protocol POP instant messaging e.g. extensible messaging and presence protocol XMPP Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE Instant Messaging and Presence Service IMPS and or Short Message Service SMS or any other suitable communication protocol including communication protocols not yet developed as of the filing date of this document.

In some embodiments audio circuitry speaker and microphone provide an audio interface between a user and device . The audio circuitry receives audio data from peripherals interface converts the audio data to an electrical signal and transmits the electrical signal to speaker . Speaker converts the electrical signal to human audible sound waves. Audio circuitry also receives electrical signals converted by microphone from sound waves. Audio circuitry converts the electrical signal to audio data and transmits the audio data to peripherals interface for processing. Audio data is optionally retrieved from and or transmitted to memory and or RF circuitry by peripherals interface .

In some embodiments power system optionally includes a power management system one or more power sources e.g. battery alternating current AC a recharging system a power failure detection circuit a power converter or inverter a power status indicator e.g. a light emitting diode LED and any other components associated with the generation management and distribution of power in portable devices.

In some embodiments the device optionally also includes one or more optical sensors . Optical sensor s optionally include charge coupled device CCD or complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS phototransistors. Optical sensor s receive light from the environment projected through one or more lens and converts the light to data representing an image. In conjunction with imaging module also called a camera module optical sensor s optionally capture still images and or video. In some embodiments an optical sensor is located on the back of device opposite display system on the front of the device so that the touch screen is enabled for use as a viewfinder for still and or video image acquisition. In some embodiments another optical sensor is located on the front of the device so that the user s image is obtained e.g. to verify the identity of the user etc. .

As such exemplarily illustrate a business to consumer architecture of a channel based bidirectional communication and transaction system secure mobile communications platform SMCP for facilitating channel based communication and transactions with consumers in real time. In some embodiments the SMCP is accessible by consumers using their remote user devices via an ionic framework comprising a web browser application that implements for example the hypertext markup language 5 HTML5 content presentation technology or a mobile application installed on consumer devices for example tablet computing devices such as the iPhone of Apple Inc. Android devices WINDOWS devices of Microsoft Corporation BLACKBERRY devices of BlackBerry Limited etc. Referring to the SMCP provides a communications module E that provides a graphical communication interface comprising a public business application programming interface for enterprise data sources to communicate with users e.g. consumers and referring to a communication module C for users e.g. consumers to communicate with the enterprise data sources . The enterprise data sources e.g. business entities publish messages for example text messages audio messages video messages images etc. to consumers via the communications module E. The users e.g. consumers can subscribe to offers provided by the enterprise data sources e.g business entities and transmit messages associated with multiple topics to the enterprise data sources via the communications module C.

Now that details of a SMCP that provides enterprise data sources as primary communication channels in searchable catalogs has been described a flow chart of processes and features of the system in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure are disclosed with reference to .

One aspect of the present disclosure provides a method performed at a secure mobile communications platform e.g. server system comprising one or more processors and memory in which there is received for each respective user in a plurality of users identification information from a remote user device associated with the respective user. The identification information for each respective user in the plurality of users comprises a unique identifier for the respective user. In some embodiments the unique identifier is a unique identification number assigned to the user after the user has enrolled with the secure mobile communications platform. In some such embodiments the user does not have access to the unique identifier . For instance in some embodiments the user chooses a login and enrolls in the secure mobile communications platform whereupon the user is assigned the unique identifier which is stored on the user device associated with the user and or in the profile associated with the user. In some instances the unique identifier is stored in an encrypted format. Then when the user logs into the secure mobile communications platform the unique identifier is automatically sent to the secure mobile communications platform or retrieved from the user s profile as part of the login in process of block . In some alternative embodiments the unique identifier is a login chosen by the user and assigned to the user once the uniqueness of the login has been verified e.g. no other user has already chosen the login and the login is deemed to be robust enough to serve as a login .

Turning to block for each respective user in the plurality of users the unique identifier of the respective user is used to obtain characteristic information from a user profile corresponding to the respective user that is stored across one or more data stores. The secure mobile communications platform retrieves characteristic information of each of the users e.g. consumers also referred to herein as end users using the unique identifier from one or more databases e.g. user profile database for example by performing a database lookup based on the unique identifier. In some embodiments the characteristic information comprises for example demographic information consumer preferences on different subjects or topics location information etc. of each of the users. For instance referring to in some embodiments user profiles are stored in user profile database of secure mobile communications platform . However in alternative embodiments the user profile is stored on the remote user device e.g. in encrypted format . provides more details of a user profile database in accordance with some embodiments of the present disclosure. In the user profile database a user profile is stored for each user. In some embodiments a user profile for a respective user includes the unique identifier of the user e.g. a contact number of the user the name of the user the geographic address e.g. street address of the user as well as one or more E mail and or social media addresses of the user. Further the profile details the primary communication channels to which the user has subscribed. For those primary communication channels in which the user is able to select which sub channels are invoked a description of the sub channels the user has invoked are also included in the profile of the user . Such a situation is illustrated in where the primary channel associated with the enterprise data source ZAGAT is illustrated and the user is able to turn off and on the sub channels Discover Best Places Latest Buzz and New Openings . In some instances the user does not get to select which sub channels of a primary communication channel are invoked and in such instances information regarding sub channels for such primary communication channels is not stored in the user profile. provide additional examples of this feature. In some embodiments the user profile of a user additionally stores the identifier of each conversation in each sub channel that the user is presently participating in.

Turning to block of as part of the user login process a respective plurality of primary communication channels is generated for each respective user in the plurality of users based upon the information stored in the user profile for the respective user.

In typical embodiments these primary communication channels already existed with other users connected to them and the generating involves joining the user to such primary communication channels . Each primary communication channel in each respective plurality of primary communication channels 1 enables one to one communication between a corresponding enterprise data source in a plurality of enterprise data sources and a respective user in the plurality of users and 2 facilitates electronic communication between the single corresponding enterprise data source and the single respective user. For instance user A associated with remote user device logs into the secure mobile communications platform . As part of the login process the user profile of the user is obtained. From the user profile a list of primary communication channels that the user is associated with is obtained. Each of these primary communication channels is generated e.g. activated . In some embodiments no action takes place when generating the plurality of communication channels other than to display a representation of these channels on the display of the corresponding remote user device. For instance referring to generating the plurality of primary communication channels for a first user involves displaying an icon for each of the primary channels. In particular each provide an illustration of a graphical user interface provided by communication module C on a remote user device after completion of block in accordance with some embodiments of the present disclosure. An icon is provided for each primary communication channel . Such primary communication channels are interchangeably referred to herein as Pypes. Further it is quite likely that a number of other users are already engaged with these primary communication channels when the first user log in.

If there has been communication e.g. messages from the corresponding enterprise data source posted to a sub channel associated with a given primary channel for a given user e.g. posted to the conversation associated with the user in the sub channel since the last time that user has logged in a count icon is displayed that numerically indicates the number of such messages that have been posted to the sub channels of that primary channel since the last time the user has checked the sub channels. For instance referring to two messages have been posted on conversations in the sub channels for the primary channel Pypestream since that last time the user has opened the icon for that primary channel on the remote user device . Further referring to a message has been posted in a conversation on one of the sub channels for the primary channel Target since that last time the user has opened the icon for Target on the remote user device .

In typical embodiments although each primary communication channel enables one to one communication between the corresponding enterprise data source and a respective user and 2 facilitates electronic communication between the single corresponding enterprise data source and the respective user messages are not typically communicated between the enterprise data source and the remote user devices on the primary communication channel . Rather sub channels associated with the primary channel are used for this purpose as discussed in further detail below.

To build the profile of primary channels associated with a user the user can request to establish a primary channel with any enterprise data source e.g. business entity by using the secure mobile security platform . In an embodiment referring to for illustration at a remote user device the client side version of communications module C lists a description of available enterprise data sources obtained from catalog module of the secure mobile security platform . Further a user may enter an alphanumeric query for enterprise data sources of interest using prompt . Referring to as the user enters the alphanumeric query enterprise data sources from the digital catalog that match the partial query are displayed. In this way users can search through the digital catalog and request to establish e.g. join a primary channel with a selected enterprise data source . In some embodiments the secure mobile communications platform generates revenue by charging each enterprise data source e.g. business entity a fee for example a monthly fee for listing them in the digital catalog .

Referring to block in some embodiments an enterprise data source has access rights to each primary communication channel and each sub channel corresponding to the enterprise data source. The enterprise data source designates access permission to the primary communication channel to one or more primary communication channel administrators and each respective sub channel to one or more sub channel administrators . The one or more sub channel administrators are independent of the one or more primary communication channel administrators.

Referring to block of in some embodiments an enterprise data source is a store a chain of stores a government institution or service a corporate entity an organization or a social organization.

As discussed above each primary channel includes one or more sub channels. During the login process the sub channels of the primary channels associated with a user are generated. In other words referring to block of there is generated for each respective primary communication channel in at least a subset of the plurality of primary communication channels of a first user in the plurality of users a corresponding plurality of sub channels based upon the user profile information for the first user automatically without human intervention. In typical embodiments these sub channels already existed with other users connected to them and the generating involves adding a conversation to the sub channel between the user and the enterprise data source that other users may not participate in.

Each of the plurality of sub channels forms a corresponding hierarchical tree in which the corresponding primary communication channel is a root node and the plurality of sub channels are child nodes. illustrates such a hierarchical tree. The primary channel Zagat is the root node and the sub channels Discover Best Places Latest Buzz and New Openings are child nodes. At least one sub channel in each of the corresponding hierarchy of sub channels enables secure bidirectional conversation between i a remote user device associated with the first user and ii the enterprise data source associated with the primary communication channel of the corresponding hierarchical tree thereby facilitating secure exchange of a plurality of messages between the corresponding enterprise data source and the remote user device associated with the first user within the at least one sub channel . Each such conversation includes only a single user associated with a remote user device although a sub channel may host any number of conversations each such conversation between the corresponding enterprise data source and a respective user.

As illustrated in the communications module C operating on remote user device renders a graphical communications interface for example in an electronic mail email layout on the remote user device for enabling bidirectional communication of messages and content between the user and the enterprise data source in real time through a sub channel . The content comprises for example one or more of messages e.g. messages and of image content e.g. image of audio content video content audiovisual content multimedia content animations digital content email content voicemail content document content files etc. and any combination thereof. As illustrated in the graphical communications interface combines a peer to peer chat application with an email layout on the consumer device to create the graphical communication interface. In some embodiments the secure mobile communication platform encodes each of the messages and the content using strong encryption technologies for example public key cryptography with a private key such as a personal identification number PIN and a two factor authentication and facilitates a secure transmission and a secure reception of the messages and the content through the sub channel via the rendered graphical communication interface . As used herein public key cryptography refers to a class of cryptographic algorithms that requires a private key and a public key. Also as used herein two factor authentication refers to an unambiguous identification of a user using a combination of two different components which a user knows or possesses. In an embodiment the secure mobile communications platform securely stores the encoded messages and the encoded content in one or more databases and or in the consumer devices. The secure mobile communications platform uses different types of encoding methods for secure storage and secure transmission of the messages and the content. In an embodiment the secure mobile communications platform offers different levels of security based on a user s security needs. For example the secure mobile communications platform provides a RSA RSA hardware certificate a RSA SECURID of the EMC corporation or a one time key or token to consumers who require a high level of security. In an embodiment the secure mobile communications platform receives and sends requests for establishing primary communication channels between enterprise data sources and users via the communications module C of .

Referring to block in some embodiments a depth of the hierarchical tree associated with a primary communication channel in the plurality of primary communication channels is N where N is a positive integer greater than one e.g. N is 2 3 4 or greater than 4 . illustrates a hierarchical tree with a depth of two where the primary channel is the root node and each of the sub channels are direct child nodes to the primary channel. However the present disclosure is not so limited. For instance some sub channels may be child nodes to other child nodes leading to hierarchical trees with depths of 3 or greater. illustrates a hierarchical tree in which the primary communication channel is a root node and the plurality of sub channels are child nodes in which the hierarchical tree has a depth of four. Sub channels and are respective child nodes to sub channels and which in turn are respective child nodes to sub channel which in turn is a sub node to primary channel . In the hierarchical tree illustrated in secure bidirectional communication occurs between i a remote user device associated with the first user and ii the enterprise data source associated with the primary communication channel of the corresponding hierarchical tree on one or more of the sub channels .

Thus in typical embodiments the secure mobile communications platform generates one or more sub channels from each of the established primary channels associated with each user s unique identifier based on the received characteristic information for communicating with each of the users and for facilitating one or more transactions with each of the consumers within the generated sub channels . The secure mobile communications platform provides complete transaction support inside a sub channel . Using the secure mobile communications platform enterprise data sources e.g. business entities can establish one or more primary communication channels with their users e.g. consumers after which sub channels covering different subjects and topics and offering transaction services can be established once the users have opted in to particular sub channels . Within each sub channel a user participating in a private secure conversation with the enterprise data source can reply to a transaction message for example an electronic commerce e commerce offer message by purchasing the ecommerce offer as disclosed in the examples below. The secure mobile communications platform implements e commerce using one or more payment infrastructures for example STRIPE of Stripe Inc. PAYPAL of PayPal Inc. etc.

Consider an example where an enterprise data source e.g. business entity such as the STARWOOD Hotel of Starwood Capital Group LLC with a promotions team establishes a primary channel with a consumer e.g. user . The secure primary communications platform retrieves characteristic information of the consumer e.g. user profile of the user from one or more databases e.g. user profile database using the consumer s unique identifier for example the consumer s contact number. The consumer indicates e.g. through user preferences interests in their user profile of an inclination to avail themselves of exclusive offers for example exclusive deals and exclusive packages from the STARWOOD Hotel via the established primary channel . The secure mobile communication platform generates a sub channel for exclusive offers named for example Special and the promotions team of STARWOOD Hotel sends the exclusive deals and the exclusive packages with discounts to the consumer via a conversation in the sub channel . The secure mobile communication platform allows the user e.g. consumer to perform a transaction for example buying of an exclusive package based on an exclusive deal within the generated sub channel using one or more payment infrastructures. Because other users cannot participate in the conversation the transaction cannot be repudiated and privacy is ensured.

Using the secure primary communications platform e.g. channel based communication and transaction system any enterprise data source e.g. business entity can offer an electronic commerce channel or an electronic shopping channel. Through this electronic commerce channel or electronic shopping channel the secure primary communications platform allows the enterprise data source to send deals and packages to a user e.g. consumer in real time and allows the consumer to make purchases therewithin. Consider an example where an enterprise data source for example the W Miami Hotel of Starwood Hotels Resorts Worldwide Inc. offers a three night package for 500 to the first consumers who opt in to purchase the package. The W Miami Hotel establishes a primary channel with each of the users e.g. consumers via the secure primary communications platform . If the consumers indicate an inclination to avail offers from the W Miami Hotel via the established primary communication channel the secure primary communications platform generates a sub channel for example an eShop sub channel by adding a conversation to the sub channel for the user and transmits a communication of the three night package for 500 through this conversation hosted on the eShop sub channel. Furthermore the secure primary communications platform facilitates a transaction service within the eShop sub channel when the consumer opts in to buy the three night package thereby facilitating a transaction or trading of the three night package within the eShop sub channel in real time. In an embodiment the secure primary communications platform identifies a new user e.g. consumer based on a location of the remote user device associated with the new user for example via a positioning system and sends a hotel deal to the new user for a night stay using the sub channel . In an embodiment the secure primary communications platform generates revenue from a percentage of a transaction amount associated with each transaction made within the sub channel .

The secure mobile communication platform SMCB provides a spam free communication experience to users e.g. consumers as the SMCB does not allow transactions to be performed in the primary channel in typical embodiments. In an embodiment the SMCB provides a channel permissions mechanism that sets a semaphore flag for the sub channel for example to true or false. By design the SMCB does not allow or display transactions in the primary communication channel. The SMCB provides access control lists ACLs to enterprise data sources for fine grained control of what can occur in the primary channel or the sub channels . For instance in the example described above for the W Miami Hotel the SMCB sends deals and packages through conversations hosted by the eShop sub channel . If a user receives an offer in a non eShop sub channel then that would be considered as spam which is prevented by the SMCB . The SMCB does not send messages or chats in the primary channel . The SMCB sends general information related to the enterprise data source for example updated sub channel news names of new sub channels log or information tracking subscriptions to the sub channels disconnections from the sub channels etc. through the primary channel .

In another example an enterprise data source e.g. business entity for example the EQUINOX organization of Equinox Holdings Inc. offers a discount on a package for spinning classes. The SMCB establishes a primary channel with a user e.g. consumer and transmits general information related to the enterprise data source through the established primary channel . If the user indicates an inclination to avail themselves of offers from the EQUINOX organization via the established primary channel the SMCB generates a sub channel for example an eShop sub channel e.g. by adding a conversation to the eShop sub channel between EQUINOX and the user transmits a communication on the discounted package through the conversation in the eShop sub channel and provides a transaction service where the user can opt in to buy the discounted package via the eShop sub channel . The SMCB therefore generates and uses live real time primary channels and sub channels to deliver product and services to users e.g. consumers on a transaction basis.

In typical embodiments an enterprise data source uses the same sub channel to communicate with multiple users. While the enterprise data source can review messages sent by each of these users each respective user cannot see messages sent by the enterprise data source to other users nor can they see messages originated by other users. Accordingly in some embodiments a first sub channel in the corresponding plurality of sub channels associated with a respective primary communication channel in the plurality of primary communication channels comprises e.g. hosts a first secure bidirectional conversation between i a first remote user device associated with the first user and ii the enterprise data source associated with the primary communication channel of the corresponding hierarchical tree thereby facilitating secure exchange of the first plurality of messages. Moreover the first sub channel comprises e.g. hosts a second secure bidirectional conversation between i a second remote user device associated with a second user and ii the enterprise data source associated with the primary communication channel of the corresponding hierarchical tree thereby facilitating secure exchange of a second plurality of messages. The first user cannot see any of the messages in the second plurality of messages. The second user cannot see any of the messages in the first plurality of messages. The enterprise data source can see all the messages in the first plurality of messages and the second plurality of messages.

In some embodiments this above described one to one aspect of the communication between a given enterprise data source and respective users is imposed using application program interface API keys and tokens where the API key identifies a particular enterprise data source resource such as a particular sub channel belonging to a particular enterprise data source resource and the API token indicates the identity of source message or content. For instance in such embodiments when the enterprise data source wishes to post content on a particular sub channel a content post request is made which includes the message or content to be posted to the sub channel . The post request further includes the API key thereby identifying the correct sub channel of the enterprise data source and the API token thereby identifying the originator of the content or message here the enterprise data source . In some such embodiments the API token not only serves to identify the originator of the content it also serves to designate what access privileges the originator of the content or message have over the sub channel . In some embodiments the post request will further include a chatroom identifier e.g. conversation identifier and or chatroom consumer identifier e.g. conversation user identifier . In typical embodiments only one user will have access to such a chatroom conversation thereby establishing the one to one communication between an enterprise data source and an end user.

In another illustrative embodiment a first message in a first plurality of messages is posted by the enterprise data source where the first message is a associated with an application programming interface key identifying the sub channel of the enterprise data source and b a first application programming interface token identifying the first user. Further a second message in the second plurality of messages is posted by the enterprise data source . The second message is associated with a the application programming interface key identifying the sub channel of the enterprise data source and b a second application programming interface token identifying a second user associated with a second remote user device. In this example the first application programming interface token and the application programming interface key are used to route the first message to the first remote user device within the sub channel . The second application programming interface token and the application programming interface key are used to route the second message to the second remote user device within the sub channel. Thus the first message is in a first conversation hosted by the sub channel and the second message is in a second conversation hosted by the sub channel.

In some embodiments messages posted on sub channels are encrypted at the originating device e.g. remote user device or enterprise data source using private information. For instance if the message is posted by the end user private information associated with the end user or the end user s remote device is used to encrypt the message. If the message is posted by the enterprise data source private information associated with the enterprise data source is used to encrypt the message.

Referring to in some embodiments a sub channel in a hierarchy of sub channels is associated with a sub channel identifier and an application programming interface key and a message in the plurality of messages is sent in the sub channel when the first user or the enterprise data source sending the respective message includes the sub channel identifier the application programming interface key and an API key. The API key serves to specify the access rights of the message originator.

In some embodiments each of the sub channels associated with a given enterprise data source is used to perform a different customer service task. For instance referring to one sub channel may be used to offer a service such as discovering best places another sub channel may be used to offer the latest buzz while still another sub channel may be used to offer new openings. 

Each such sub channel may host a number of conversations each conversation between the enterprise data source and a different end user. The enterprise data source is associated with e.g. participates in each of the conversations. Each conversation is with only a single user of a remote user device .

Referring to block of in some embodiments to ensure that each conversation in a plurality of conversations taking place on a single sub channel is secure that is only the intended user can see messages in a conversation the sub channel is associated with a sub channel identifier and the conversation within the sub channel is associated with an application programming interface key. A message is sent within posted to the conversation in the sub channel when the user associated with the remote user device or the enterprise data source that is associated with the sub channel sending the respective message includes the sub channel identifier the application programming interface key and an access token. The access token serves to identify the access rights of the message originator to the conversation.

Block provides just one example of the use of API keys and tokens. In some embodiments of the present disclosure API keys designate a number of operation available in the secure mobile communication platform including but not limited to defining an enterprise data source within the secure mobile communication platform defining each primary communication channel associated with the enterprise data source defining each sub channel associated with the enterprise data source connecting a user to a primary communication channel and so forth.

Each sub channel can be set up to access data in a manner that is independent of other sub channels. Thus referring to block in an example embodiment a first sub channel in the corresponding plurality of sub channels associated with a respective primary communication channel makes use of a first database or other form of information such as an external system that accesses data associated with the corresponding enterprise data source . For instance this first database may be related to a payment system used by the enterprise data source to obtain payment for goods and or services provided to users. A second sub channel in the corresponding plurality of sub channels associated with the respective primary communication channel makes use of a second database or other form of information such as an external system that accesses data associated with the corresponding enterprise data source. The first database is other than the second database. For instance the second database may be related to a system used for tracking customer complaints or the shipment information for customer orders.

Sub channels support numerous chat rooms with each such chat room consisting of a conversation between an enterprise data source and a single user. That is each such conversation in a sub channel is between i the enterprise data source or a proxy for the enterprise data source and ii a single user associated with a remote user device . Messages placed in such conversations by the enterprise data source are delivered to the remote user device of the associated user who is typically allowed to consume the message only once. Advantageously in some embodiments the messages in a conversation in a sub channel are created by automated human interface modules associated with a sub channel. Such automated human interface modules parse messages and other responses by a user in a conversation and use this input to determine suitable reply messages to send to the user. When the automated human interface module is not able to parse the messages adequately the automated human interface module may refer the conversation to another automated human interface module or to the queue of a live operator of the sub channel.

Block of illustrates how this is accomplished in accordance with one embodiment. A first sub channel in the corresponding plurality of sub channels associated with a respective first primary communication channel in a plurality of primary communication channels hosts a first conversation between the enterprise data source corresponding to the first primary communication and a first user. The first conversation has a first human intervention status. When the first human intervention status is deemed automated messages in the first conversation from the remote user device associated with the first user are processed by a first automated human interface module. When the first human intervention status is deemed non automated messages in the first conversation from the remote user device associated with the first user are placed in a queue for processing by a human associated with the corresponding enterprise data source of the first sub channel .

In some embodiments a user input specifically triggers the change from automated to non automated. For example the user might say I want to talk with an operator and that might result in reclassifying further messages in the conversation such that they are routed to a non automated agent human call center rep e.g. . This routing could in principle change back and forth many times during a conversation between an automated agent the first human intervention status of the conversation is deemed automated and a non automated human agent the first human intervention status of the conversation is deemed non automated .

As noted above several conversations may concurrently be held on a sub channel of which only one is with a particular end user. The status of each of these conversations may be different. For instance consider the case where there are seven conversations concurrently being held on a given sub channel. In this example four of the conversations may be deemed automated and serviced by an automated human interface module whereas the remaining three may be deemed non automated and serviced by a human operator.

In some embodiments a trained classifier is used to monitor conversations on a sub channel for the purpose of changing the status of such conversations from automated to non automated. For instance such a trained classifier may parse the messages posted by users for certain keywords such as operator or other words or events that have been determined to be associated with a need for human intervention. For instance the user may have looped through several different nodes of an automated human interface module and may be getting frustrated. Advantageously in some embodiments classifiers are trained based on the broad aggregate of user interactions from a plurality of users over time.

Referring to block of in some embodiments when the first human intervention status of a first conversation is deemed to be automated the method further comprises applying messages on the first sub channel from the remote user device associated with the first user to a trained classifier associated with the first sub channel thereby obtaining a classifier result. When the classifier result falls into a predetermined category the first human intervention status is changed from automated to non automated until a predetermined event occurs. Referring to block this predetermined event may be for example a break in communications in the first conversation the elapsing of a predetermined amount of time or a manual switch of the first human intervention status from non automated to automated by a human operator associated with the corresponding enterprise data source. Referring to block in some such embodiments the classifier produces a binomial classification and the predetermined category is one of the two outputs of the classifier. Referring to block of in some such embodiments the classifier is a decision tree a random forest a Bayesian network a support vector machine a neural network or logistic regression. Referring to block in some embodiments the classifier is trained across the conversations of a plurality of sub channels using feedback data provided by the plurality of users regarding a plurality of their interactions with the server system using the sub channels. Referring to block examples of such interactions include electronic payment processing customer sign up and customer service by the plurality of users using the sub channels provided by the server system.

A first user may have one conversation in one sub channel with a first enterprise data source that is deemed automated while having another conversation in another sub channel with a second enterprise data source that is deemed non automated or vice versa. That is the status of each conversation is independent. Block of illustrates. A second conversation in a second sub channel in the corresponding plurality of sub channels associated with a second primary communication channel in the plurality of primary communication channels has a second human intervention status that is independent of the first human intervention status of the first conversation. When the second intervention status is deemed automated communication in the second conversation from the remote user device associated with the first user is processed by a second automated human interface module. When the second human intervention status is deemed non automated communication in the second conversation from the remote user device associated with the first user are placed in a second queue for processing by a human associated with the corresponding enterprise data source of the second sub channel.

Referring to block of a first sub channel in the corresponding plurality of sub channels associated with a respective primary communication channel process a communication received from a remote user device associated with the first user in the conversation as a query for data by converting the query into a modified query in accordance with an application program interface function call triggered by the query received from the first user. In some embodiments the modified query is submitted to a database associated with electronically addressable by the corresponding enterprise data source . However the present disclosure is not so limited. In some embodiments the modified query is submitted to any electronic data source or system that retrieves electronic data and that has been designated for such purpose by the enterprise data source . This can be for instance a system that references files or is capable of addressing any kind of non transitory memory storage mechanism. This system may be owned or leased by the enterprise data source or may be in the public domain depending on the application. A query result is received from the data source responsive to submitting the modified query. In some embodiments this query request is reformatted. The reformatted query result is then communicated to the remote user device associated with the first user directly in line within the conversation between the enterprise data source and the remote user device . In one use case the client side communication module C invokes a first API call within a conversation. In response to this API call the communications module enterprise source side E receives the API call and makes another API call to a back end system associated with the corresponding enterprise data source and gets a result. The query result is processed into another format by the communications module enterprise source side E and this result is returned to the client side communication module C for display in the conversation.

Referring to block of in some embodiments the data source associated with the corresponding enterprise data source provides an inventory control mechanism for the enterprise data source and the query seeks information about an item tracked by the inventory control mechanism.

Referring to the disclosed secure mobile communication platform provides a plurality of automated human interface modules automated messaging bots and a system for managing and deploying these automated messaging bots. Each automated messaging bots reflects a defined message and or transaction capability. Automated messaging bots can contain a range of content and functionality from a simple static response to sophisticated knowledge systems that can power automated conversations leading to solutions and integrated transactions with external systems e.g. payments reservations etc. The secure mobile communication platform supports the generation of custom native intelligent automated messaging bots selection of automated messaging bots from third party platforms and defining flexible integrations of these automated messaging bots into automated messaging response networks.

Each automated messaging bots provides a certain scope and capability for automatically engaging end users in a conversational flow. Functional transactions can also be integrated into conversational exchange. The goal is for each automated messaging bot to help end users typically either resolve a question problem or to fulfill a specific transaction all via the disclosed messaging communications framework. An end user s conversation with an automated messaging bots is initiated when the initial message from the end user associated with a remote user device is assigned to the automated messaging bot . The automated messaging bot will initiate a response to the initial message based on its available logic. The end user s selection of available predefined responses or a typed message response are the triggers the bot uses to navigate the end user through it s available content logic node graph . If an automated messaging bot s exit criteria conditions are met the conversation either ends or is moved out of the bot and is either reassessed by the system moved to a live support message queue or reassigned to another automated messaging bot e.g. one that has a different logic flow and thus will provide a complementary orthogonal end user experience .

Some embodiments of the disclosed systems and methods provide the ability to create manage and administer bots to make them available for use in creating editing or deleting bots via a primary communication channel user interface by either using a user interface based automated message flow builder or by uploading VXML or properly formatted JSON files.

Some embodiments of the disclosed systems and methods provide a user interface based bot designer to assist in the creation and editing of the automated message flows within bots . Referring to in some embodiments this automated message flow is manifested as a node graph . The bot designer includes the ability to define the name of the automated message bot create edit and delete individual nodes in the bot the ability to expand collapse node branches the ability to see and edit the message content for a node e.g. stock messages stock widgets stock multimedia objects and the ability to see node traversals e.g. when one or more nodes connect to a different node .

In some embodiments a node of a bot reflects a predetermined decision point within the bot. The bot tries to evaluate an incoming message from a remote user device by parsing the incoming for recognized keywords and phrases. Based on detection of such keywords the automated human interface module will progress the end user in a particular direction within the node graph . Thus the use of nodes within a bot is similar to walking through a decision tree with different nodes in the bot where the bot knows the position of an end user in the decision tree and can progress the end user in the node graph . However the analogy to the decision tree here is merely exemplary. More generally nodes in the node graph embody a logic that can evaluate messages and based on this evaluation take some action such as send a message to the end user and or send the conversation associated with the end user to another node in the node graph of the bot the node graph of another bot or to the queue of a live operator e.g. the sub channel administrator depending on the end user message the choices made by the end user the user conversation history etc.

In some embodiments the automated human interface module designer further includes the ability to add edit and delete the end user s response options e.g. option buttons provided in a widget per node . Such response options include but are not limited to an ability to define a specific destination node for each end user option an ability to define a node option to close a chat session e.g. by user selecting the session closing problem is resolved option and in some embodiments with the system able to send a final response within the conversation such as Happy to help have a great day connecting to a different bot ability to move the end user to a different automated human interface module ability to select a specific destination node within the node graph of the bot ability to have the bot send multiple separate messages to the end user in the conversation in sequence for instance one right after the other near instantaneous ability to add change or delete an embedded third party widget e.g. payment transaction for a node ability to add change or delete a predefined system widget e.g. list picker for a list of service or production options date picker etc. a visual indicator for whether a node has any node tags associated with it. A tag is a single keyword or phrase and can be assigned by the enterprise data source .

Tags reflect a single keyword or phrase and can be assigned to specific nodes within a node graph of an automated human interface module and for the overall scope of the automated human interface module when an end user s conversation has been entered into the automated human interface module s automated message flow node graph .

In some embodiments the automated human interface module administrator interface based bot designer provides the ability to add edit and delete one or more node level tags the ability to add edit and delete one or more human interface module tags and scope tags and the ability to add a multimedia human interface module to one or more nodes in a node graph of an automated human interface module . As illustrated in each node tag is required to point to a specific node in the node graph of an automated human interface module . However as further illustrated in node tags can be grouped that is multiple node tags can all point to the same node in the node graph of an automated human interface module .

Primary communication channel administrators can configure one or more multimedia libraries by uploading objects such as images audio files movie files reference documents e.g. PDF files. Each object can optionally be tagged with one or more keywords or phrases. Each object can be assigned to a bot node as the bot s response to end user input. If the bot includes a reference to a multimedia human interface module discussed below any node response option can be configured to check for automated content from the multimedia content provided by the multimedia human interface module . There is provided the option to filter by media type and ability to specify specific tags or pass through the tag history associated with the end user responses from the current conversation e.g. the user conversation history .

In some embodiments a multimedia library is configured to behave like an automated reference system that is made available as a multimedia human interface module multimedia bot . The multimedia bot can operate at the sub channel level level as illustrated in parallel to various other bots assigned to the sub channel . For example a given sub channel may have five bots each such bot handling a set of conversations and further the given sub channel may have one or more multimedia bots that listen in on the conversations within the sub channel and provide multimedia objects to these conversations when there is a match between the tags to objects accessible to the multimedia bot and content in the conversations e.g. messages from the users associated with end user devices . In still other embodiments a multimedia bot may operate a widget at a particular node within an automated human interface module .

The multimedia human interface module can be configured to be active for only dedicated requests from a bot node e.g. as specific nodes within the bot node and or custom message responses a user provides while interacting within a bot. In some embodiments a maximum response time for the message mot to provide a multimedia object to a query is specified. In some embodiments a default is provided. This is done to ensure that the multimedia object is provided within the right context in a conversation. For instance consider the case where the multimedia bot has detected the tag Los Angeles which is associated within the bot with a picture of Los Angeles. Posting of the image into the conversation in which the tag Los Angeles was detected is only appropriate within a certain period of time after the message containing the tag was posted into the conversation. Thus accordingly in some embodiments if the multimedia human interface module seek request takes longer than allowed the search will be abandoned. In some embodiments there is an option for defining how many tags from a user s current tag history found in the user conversation history for the user to include per search sequence by the multimedia human interface module .

Referring to in some embodiments the multimedia human interface module makes use of tags at two or three levels. Multimedia module scope tags provide one or more keywords or phrases that can be used as triggers when detected in messages from users in conversations for automated retrieval of multimedia content or at least activation of the multimedia module to perform a search. Each object e.g. media file to be made available as part of the multimedia module is tagged with one or more object tags . Further as illustrated in in some embodiments objects are arranged into directories . For instance each directory can represent a different product offered by the enterprise data source . Although illustrates a directory tree with one a single layer of sub directories in principle such directories can be nested to any desired level so that a directory may have sub directories which in turn may have sub directories and so forth which each level of sub directories having their own independent directory tags .

In some embodiments one or more of the following functionalities are included in the multimedia human interface module the ability to define specific content objects to be added to the object directory tree the ability to assign the content to an organizational branch directory in the object directory tree or a section of the branch and or the ability to enable disable parallel content channels by defining the inclusion of the multimedia human interface module into a node of an automated human interface module .

In some embodiments among the stock messages stock widgets and stock objects is content that represents an initial inquiry message that can be added to a conversation by the automated human interface module . For example Would you be interested in upgrading to the product version X Provides X better performance and you may qualify for a special offer Yes No . If the answer in the conversation from the user device associated with the user in the conversation is Yes the automated human interface module takes any of the following predetermined options in accordance with the node logic for the node that imposed this question a target node in the currently active automated human interface module and in the current conversation a target node in another active automated human interface module and in the current conversation or to a new conversation in another automated human interface module .

In some embodiments the enterprise data source can include advertising content among the stock messages stock widgets and stock objects of a node in an automated human interface module . This includes defined messages and or a media file link to a multimedia object a link to an external advertisement platform . Such a configuration can include getting the communications module enterprise source side E to send a list of tags or organized parameter mappings to such an external advertisement platform. In some such embodiments the communications module enterprise source side E would then make an application programming interface call and receive an advertisement image in response and post this ad image into the conversation. Included in such embodiments is the ability to define placement of the advertisements e.g. at what nodes in the node graph such advertisements are possible when they are to be presented what options are provided with such advertisements what advertisement responses are solicited from the user e.g. a menu of options like tell me more or dismiss and the ability to designate a dedicated advertising area in the user interface application provided by communication module client side C of . In some embodiments beyond the simple available organizational structure for media libraries illustrated in it is possible to create a specialized custom multimedia library reference bot containing a blend of conversational node logic as illustrated in with direct links to various multimedia files at specific nodes .

Setting up node graphs to direct user conversations within sub channel can involve some work particularly when more complex decision logic is desired. Advantageously one embodiment of the present disclosure provides for importing call center logic which is typically in VXML format. VXML is a digital document standard for specifying interactive media and voice dialogs between humans and computers. It is used for developing audio and voice response applications such as banking systems and automated customer service portals. In some embodiments an enterprise data source e.g. the enterprise data source super administrator the primary communication channel administrator the sub channel administrator can provide support flow data in VXML format and load that into the communications module enterprise source side E. In such embodiments the enterprise data source defines a name for the new imported automated human interface module . Further the enterprise data source either uploads a VXML file directly or copies and paste the VXML content into an entry field in the user interface provided by some embodiments the communications module enterprise source side E. Then the user clicks on a button e.g. Create to initiate the process that converts the VXML into an automated human interface module . In so doing the VXML file is parsed and VXML data is validated to ensure proper formatting. If the validation fails an error message identifying any validation issues is displayed. In some embodiments the data is converted into an automated human interface module specific JSON file format that represents the internal mapping organization and overall data structure for the automated human interface module including the node graph which embodies message flows hosted by the automated human interface module . The uploaded data can then be reviewed and edited in an automated message bot editor provided in some embodiments of the communications module enterprise source side E.

In some embodiments automated human interface modules are coded in a custom JSON structured data format that stores the bot s node graph message flow network . In some embodiments an enterprise data source is able to directly create native JSON files that can be uploaded into the communications module enterprise source side E. The process includes automatic validation of the format structure and specific parameter nomenclature. Validation issue notification alerts the enterprise data source to the problems the communications module E found.

The development time often required to generated logic that directs a conversation automatically and yet provides a user with a good customer experience can be extensive. Advantageously in some embodiments of the present disclosure the secure mobile communications platform provides an array of predefined default automated human interface module templates. Each template provides a node graph that contains placeholder content for an enterprise data source to customize for their purposes. In some embodiments available templates are presented in a Bot Store and can include automated human interface module and or multimedia human interface modules created by registered entities of the secure mobile communication platform e.g. registered enterprise data sources . Examples of such template automated human interface modules include but are not limited to different payment bots. For instance one sample payment bot could comprise a node graph that encodes a linear flow that leads a user in a conversation through a product service selection process payment transaction and ends with the receipt getting stored in the user s file storage. Another sample bot could comprise a node graph that simply provides basic store information such as location and office hours. The template customer would select a template from the list and then customize the necessary nodes in the node graph of the template with the business and specific content. In some embodiments the enterprise data source administrator has the option of following a step by step wizard to enter in the content for all the nodes in the node graph of the template module that require customized content or preferred widgets e.g. payment widget . In some such embodiments during this process a node graph network view will visually indicate all nodes that still require customization. In this view the enterprise data source administrator clicks on a node to edit it. Further the enterprise data source administrator can save an incompletely customized template. However in some embodiments template automated human interface modules and or multimedia human interface modules can only be activated for a sub channel if all required customization nodes have been updated.

In some embodiments templates for automated human interface modules are created with a template design module. In some embodiments a basic configuration option identifies the module as a template. The templates are defined by creating the underlying content and functional flow logic structure comprising the node graph . Any node in the node graph can be defined as a customization node and it is intended for the enterprise data source administrator to define the content for such nodes for their own use. For instance in some embodiments the enterprise data source administrator specifies a title and description help text for each customization node. This is to help the enterprise data source administrator with defining appropriate content for the node .

In some embodiments templates for automated human interface modules have a configuration option relating to distribution. In such embodiments this configuration option default setting is off can be enabled to make the template available to all enterprise data sources making use of the secure mobile communications platform . In some such embodiments where such bot templates can be distributed the bot template will require input for the following metadata i title name ii description purpose scope solution provided iii category e.g. select up to three from a predefined list and iv price can be defined as free .

In some embodiments the secure mobile communications platform enables third party bots to be used in the platform . In some embodiments two approaches are made available to select third party bots. First the secure mobile communications platform provides a web hook integration infrastructure that enables secure mobile communications platform customers to connect to third party bot platforms via the secure mobile communications platform developer interface . A specific third party bot is made available via such integration. Second generic customizable third party bots can be added as automated human interface modules to a store by a developer defining a third party web hook integration as available for distribution the Bot Store . In such embodiments the following metadata is provided with such third party bots i bot title name ii description purpose scope solution provided iii category e.g. select up to three from a predefined list and iv price can be defined as free .

In some embodiments any automated human interface module that has been created and enabled for a primary communication channel becomes available in the primary communication channel manager interface. Sub channel managers can select from any of the available modules as well as selecting specific widgets e.g. payment widgets multimedia library content etc. and deploy them as a response to a user s incoming message in a conversation . An end user who is entered into an automated human interface module will then be engaged by the automated human interface module s automated messaging conversation e.g. navigated though the node graph of the module until the automated human interface module exits the end user. An end user who is returned to the live person message queue e.g. the sub channel administrator queue will show up at the bottom of this queue.

In some embodiments and as illustrated in secure mobile communications platform administrators can select one or more available automated human interface modules and third party automated flow bots and assign them to one or more sub channels . In some such embodiments if a single automated human interface module is selected any end user messages sent through that sub channel is moved into the automated flow node graph of that module . If multiple automated human interface modules are assigned to a sub channel then an automatic automated human interface module assignment protocol is activated and all incoming messages are processed to send the end user to the most thematically appropriate automated human interface module .

In some embodiments there is provided the ability to enable disable automated human interface module assignments for a primary communication channel across all sub channels .

In some embodiments there is provided the ability to refine override primary communication channel based schedule at the sub channel level. In such embodiments for example sub channel A of a given primary communication channel may have different automated human interface modules activated than sub channel B of the given primary communication channel.

In some embodiments the enterprise data source administrator is given clear user interface indications as to whether automated human interface modules are active or inactive at a sub channel level.

In some embodiments there is provided an ability for secure mobile communications platform administrators e.g. enterprise data source super administrator primary communication channel administrator to define an automated human interface module activity schedule that can be edited at any time. In some embodiments sub channel administrators may review the schedule but cannot edit the schedule. In some embodiments sub channel administrators may review the schedule and edit the schedule.

In some embodiments the secure mobile communications platform provides the flexibility for integrating third party automatic message bots and mixing and matching the third party bots with secure mobile communications platform s native automated human interface modules into a sub channel by 

In some embodiments when two or more automated human interface modules are assigned to the same sub channel then the enterprise data source administrator is prompted to specify unique interface tag expressions e.g. exclusive keywords or phrases for each selected automated human interface module to each automated human interface module as illustrated in . Both native automated human interface modules and third party automated human interface modules are assigned interface tag expressions . Then when a new unassigned conversation is initiated on the sub channel by way of an incoming message from an end user the content of the end user s message is scanned for matches between this content and the interface tag expressions . In some embodiments when a match is found between an interface tag expressions of a particular automated human interface module in the sub channel the conversation is routed to that particular automated human interface module . In some embodiments the enterprise data source administrator has the ability to add edit delete these interface tag expressions . Thus when an end user submits a message to the sub channel the system looks for any tag matches between the message content and the interface tag expressions defined for any of the automated human interface modules assigned to the sub channel. The conversation is moved into the best matching automated human interface module .

In some embodiments a default response mode is enabled for a sub channel . In such instances one of the automated human interface modules is designated as a default bot for the sub channel and represents the default bot to be selected in case no interface tag expression matches are found for any of the primary assigned automated human interface modules .

In some embodiments a sub channel exit module is provided. A primary purpose of this exit module is to reengage the automatic human interface module assignment anytime a user responds to a flow based message with a custom typed response that moves the user out of the automated human interface module they were inserted into and conversing with. In some such embodiments there is an associated configuration option to not allow the user to be reentered into the same automated human interface module they were just moved out of By default this option is enabled e.g. allowing the sub channel to reenter the user into the same automated human interface module they just exited. In some embodiments there is an added option to define an appropriate message for reinserting the user into the same automated human interface module for example Let s try rebooting your modem again. 

Some embodiments of the present disclosure provide a full automatic mode by which the sub channel operates. In such embodiments if the unattended mode is on all conversations that exited an automated human interface module will automatically be reassessed at the sub channel level using for instance the automatic human interface module assignment protocol described above in which the user conversation history is searched from matches to the interface tag expressions of participating automated human interface modules . If the conversation can t be matched to any assigned automated human interface modules in this manner the conversation is routed to the default automated human interface module which is intended to provide a prepared close to the conversation.

In some embodiments in scenarios where a user s incoming message fails all tag matches the system will assign the message either into the live chat support e.g. sub channel administrator queue of or the default automated human interface module in unattended mode by default. When session reassessment mode is enabled the system will instead automatically present the user with a message that asks the user to select from a list of options which are based on a to be selected list of interface tag expressions from any available automated human interface modules attached to the sub channel . For example assume there are two available automated human interface modules in the sub channel 

Tag assessment and matching is a central function leveraged by processes managing automated conversation flows. Tag matching involves matching words or phrases from messages from end users and a defined list of tags associated with nodes node tags or an automated human interface modules interface tag expressions . In some embodiments the following considerations are imposed when defining such tags interface tag expressions are not duplicated across multiple automated human interface modules assigned to the same sub channel . Further within an automated human interface module the scope tag expressions should be unique. Node tags within an automated human interface module can be duplicated across nodes . This is because node tags are assessed when a user replies to an automated set of options from a specific node with a custom message. So for example the tag Apple assigned as a node tag to two different nodes in the same node graph may only get evaluated for a given conversation when the conversation is at that node .

One tag matching process in accordance with the present disclosure is as follows. When there is a singular tag match within an asset e.g. the interface tag expressions of only one human interface module match a message in a conversation automatic selection occurs. When multiple tag matches within an asset e.g. an interface tag expression or node tags tags are evaluated in order of priority they are listed. Assume a message contains the following keywords apples oranges lemons . If the active node has the following tags and destination nodes associated with it 

If at the sub channel level there are multiple equal tag matches across automated human interface modules the following heuristics are imposed in some embodiments. If an incoming message has multiple interface tag expression matches with several different automated human interface modules within the sub channel it may not be suitable to select an automated human interface module on this basis. In some embodiments the system will automatically respond back and challenge the end user to select a conversational topic by reflecting back individual choices reflecting each tag match. For example Assume a message from an end user contains the following keywords apples oranges lemons and three automated human interface modules that each have separate interface tag expressions associated with them they can t have the same tags assigned 

In some embodiments system manages conversations to help track and identify the progress and process of each conversation and to be able to differentiate different conversations originating from a specific end user. In such embodiments the system tracks a conversation by i the active conversation identifier ii the process module identifier e.g. automated human interface module live chat with sub channel administrator etc. iii node identifier and or iv support representative e.g. sub channel administrator identifier live chat .

In some embodiments an initial incoming message from an end user ID does not contain a conversation identifier and is therefore automatically assigned a unique conversation identifier. In some embodiments the conversation identifier is specific to a user and sub channel combination.

In some embodiments the conversation identifier is closed when for instance the system identifies that the conversation has ended. That can be accomplished by a designated conversation closing node such that once conversation reaches this designed node the conversation ends. In some embodiments the designated conversation closing node may send a final message to the end user. In some embodiments the conversation closing node option specific ends a final conversation close question to the user. At least one node option if selected by the user would indicate that the conversation has ended e.g. Issue resolved Not resolved with the resolved option clearing the conversation. In some embodiments the conversation closing node is configured to send a final response to the end user e.g. Thank you Have a nice day before clearing the conversation identifier.

In some embodiments automated human interface module administrators could close a conversation by either i selecting and sending a predefined custom or system conversation close module which includes a defined closing message ii clicking on the close conversation button which ends the conversation e.g. after providing a customized response back to the end user providing a message such as Greg glad to be of assistance have fun at the SF Giants game on Saturday 

If the system sends a final response and the end user answers with a custom message e.g. not selecting either issue is resolved unresolved options in a menu then the conversation identifier is retained.

A conversation may cover multiple topics e.g. with the conversation moving from one module to another module . In such embodiments the conversation will retain the same conversation identifier.

When an automated human interface module can t resolve a conversation and needs to bounce a conversation out e.g. back up to the sub channel level the automated human interface module and node identifiers are cleared from the conversation but the conversation identifier is retained. For instance when the sub channel reassigns the conversation to another automated human interface module or to live chat the appropriate automated human interface module identifier or live chat identifier is added into the conversation.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure provide configuration options enabling enterprise data source administrators to define time based conversation closing rules e.g. if X hours days pass and or user closes application without the user sending a response the conversation is closed if conversation close type response was sent to the end user but the end user does not respond and either closes the application and or X hours pass the conversation is closed .

The default conversational flow in an automated human interface module moves a conversation through the node graph of nodes . Each node can contain multiple options for the end user to select. Each node option can move the conversation to a specific destination node in the automated human interface module s node graph . Multiple nodes can point to the same specific destination node . The node graph can therefore be comprised of complex branches of connected nodes. In some embodiments a node graph is a cyclic or acyclic graph with branches. Resulting conversation flows can jump from a node in one node branch to a different node branch in such graphs. It is also possible to move the conversation from a first node in a first module to a second node in a second module .

Some embodiments of the present disclosure provide dynamic message assessment that can reroute user conversations within the automated human interface module . The native automated human interface modules can be configured to listen for keywords phrases of an entered message. In some embodiments the message is evaluated at up to four levels two which are within an automated human interface module .

Referring to node tags provide one or more keywords phrases that are added to a source node . Each of these tags is also assigned a destination node that the end user is moved to if the node tag is fired. For example assume that node A has three defined node tags e.g. node tag Apples node tag Oranges and node tag Kiwis . Each node tag would further be associated with a destination node e.g. node tag Apples connects to node B . When an end user initiates a custom response within a conversation after having arrived at node A then if his message contains Apples the conversation would continue at node B . The automated human interface module checks for node tag matches at the current node first. If there are no matches with the node tags of the current node the automated human interface module goes to the level 2 assessment described below.

Referring to one or more keywords phrases can be assigned at the automated human interface module scope as scope tag expressions . When the node tags at the current active node fails to match the end user message the end user message is compared to each of the scope tag expressions of the automated human interface module that is currently hosting the conversation. Each scope tag expression at the automated human interface module is assigned to a destination node in the node graph . Thus if a match is found with a particular scope tag expression and the end user message the conversation is progressed to the node referenced by the scope tag expression .

When the level 1 and level 2 tags fail to find a match e.g. the automated human interface module presently hosting the conversation within a sub channel the user is excited out of the current automated human interface module and moved back to the 1.1 automatic assignment protocol which then reassesses the message at the sub channel s assigned bot level. Thus the message is compared to the interface tag expressions level 3 of each of the automated human interface modules in the sub channel . In some embodiments this system behavior is automatically enabled whenever the sub channel primary communication channel s 1.1. Unattended Mode is on . In some embodiments there is a configuration option to disable sub channel level auto flow bot reassignment when the unattended Mode is off . When disabled conversations are automatically moved to the live support conversations e.g. the sub channel administrator queue of the sub channel after they exit an automated human interface module .

While it is possible to define a specific multimedia content lookup as part of the message content for an automated human interface module the inclusion of a multimedia human interface module in an automated human interface modules adds automated media file retrieval. When enabled the multimedia human interface module will attempt to follow the conversation from the automated human interface module . Referring to as the conversation proceeds to drill down into a specific topic the multimedia human interface module will define its scope for evaluating tag matches within the corresponding directory in its own organizational structure as long as there is a directory to drill into. If the conversation moves the user from one node to another the destination node will inherit the branch hierarchy in the form of a tag sequence that is passed to the destination node. This allows the multimedia human interface module to reset itself in its own organizational hierarchy. The inherited branch hierarchy represents a list of tags that in the view of the multimedia human interface module takes precedence over the actual conversation tag history. The multimedia human interface module will only evaluate tag matches for objects if it contains any files in its current conversation following in the new directory location.

The multimedia human interface module process can be invoked in two ways depending on configuration. In one approach it is invoked by defining any node response option to pass through multimedia human interface module . The multimedia human interface module will review the associated keywords from the node option and follow the automated human interface module s automated node response with an appropriate media file that will also be sent to the end user. In another approach by assessing the user s last custom message against the multimedia human interface module tags. The automated human interface module passes to the multimedia human interface module the user response any node tags and the tag history from the current the automated human interface module session in that order. The order of the tags reflects a matching preference with the first listed keywords receiving more weight. In some embodiments the multimedia human interface module looks for media file tag matches in the following order. First it checks user response and node tags against the tags and appropriate tags . If there are no matches to tags from the user node option custom message or node tags the multimedia human interface module will include a fixed number configurable of tag history tags for evaluation. If there is an inherited tag hierarchy it will take priority over the full conversation hierarchy. If there are no hits multimedia human interface module will pause. If multiple objects result in hits the object with the highest hit score total weight score of matching tags and is posted to the conversation or is passed to the automated human interface module for posting into the conversation.

In some embodiments there is layered within the multimedia library organizational hierarchy options to leverage upsell or advertisement content. These options can be enabled disabled on a per automated human interface module basis.

In some embodiments based on a primary communication channel configuration setting a maximum amount of time is allotted for the system to respond from within an automated human interface module . When that time is exceeded the user will be moved out of the automated human interface module . In some embodiments a reference search via the multimedia human interface module has its own time out limit. If a multimedia human interface module search times out the user is retained in the automated human interface module and it s conversation continues.

As a conversation or message interaction unfolds the system will aggregate a tag history e.g. referring to user conversation history for the user s conversations in a sub channel . In some embodiments the tag history structure will include i primary communication channel name and identifiers sub channel name and identifier end user identifier conversational method e.g. live interaction automated human interface module name and identifier sequence of messages the user provided user conversation history matching level 1 2 3 4 tags associated with any end user response and an active Y N flag reflecting whether the user is actively interacting .

Some embodiments of the present disclosure provide reports that provide overview data about user sessions and provide summary data and statistics for various aggregation application scopes such as for the primary communication channel breakdown of data across sub channels and for sub channels breakdown of data across messaging channels e.g. automated human interface modules and live messaging with the sub channel administrator . For sub channels such reports provide a breakdown of data across nodes of each automated human interface module and the type of widget and live sessions also lists automated human interface modules and objects delivered by the multimedia human interface module . These reports provides for the ability to drill into the more detailed scope reports from the highest level e.g. the primary channel scope. For visual clarity in some embodiments these reports will present numbers in beside graphical indicators e.g. circles whose size and color depth reflects the size of the number to be displayed in comparison to all other numbers in the report . This allows the enterprise data source administrator to quickly look at the report and identify where the most end users are.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure provide a real time dashboard indicating distribution of user data across the various scopes listed above such as number of live users with active message interactions number of inactive users with completed conversations in the past selectable date range and default periods total number of incoming messages average response time to messages initiated by end users average conversation interaction time average number of message exchanges before resolution or exit number and percent of positive resolutions by live messaging number and percent of positive resolutions by automated human interface modules and or number and percent of unresolved inquiries by automated human interface modules .

Some embodiments of the present disclosure provide a summary overview of how end users moved through the automated human interface module conversations. For example some embodiments present where and volume of end users entered the automated human interface module . Some embodiments of the present disclosure provide a resolved path and exit report presentation of where with what volume end users exited the automated human interface module with the conversation unresolved . Some embodiments of the present disclosure provide an unresolved hot spot exit report presentation of where with what volume end users exited the automated human interface module with the conversation unresolved . This secure mobile communications platform hot spot report provides a clear indication of the automated human interface module s user exit performance. Some embodiments of the present disclosure feature clear indicators of any hot spots e.g. nodes in the automated human interface module where there is concentration of unresolved conversations that then exited the automated human interface module . Some embodiments of the present disclosure provide a tag summary report for each node through which any end users exited the automated human interface module . The report provides a breakdown of the specific tags that resulted in the user s exit from the automated human interface module . For instance the tag report for a specific node may provide a volume based breakdown of the conversation tags associated with the exit messages this display may include volume word clouds and a table sorted by volume of tags or phrases. Some embodiments of the present disclosure provide an automated report the system can automatically send a daily or weekly email update on sub channel and automated human interface module performance including a summary on automated human interface module exit performance and top hot spot nodes along with top tags. Some embodiments of the present disclosure provided differential reports showing changes in automated human interface module performance based on customizable time periods and also between saved automated human interface module updates.

In some embodiments automated human interface modules can be evolved in a number of ways to expand their capability and the range of topics they can cover via automated message interactions. One of the primary ways that enterprise data source administrators use this to improve the effectiveness of their automated human interface modules is to periodically check the primary channel reports which identify the hot spots in the automated human interface module messaging logic network and that reflect a primary opportunity to evaluate modifying expanding the automated human interface module in those specific nodes areas to expand the automated human interface module s ability to increase the success rate of completing conversations. Further the node tag report will provide very specific data about what end users are focused on with their response selections and custom messages at time of exit. By expanding the automated human interface module s capacity to automatically extend and resolve more conversations the efficiency of the automated messaging platform is increased.

Enterprise Data Source can Customize Appearance of Content in Sub Channels Through an Application Programming Interface.

Advantageously in the disclosed systems and methods an enterprise data source can customize the content that appears in sub channels . At any given time each such sub channel is hosting a number of conversations each such conversation with a different remote user device associated with a respective end user. As such messages are sent to the end user in such conversations and messages are received from the end user. As discussed in greater detail with respect to below the content of messages received from an end user may trigger certain events such as the activation of a stock message stock widget e.g. also interchangeably referred to herein as a control or an applet stock object e.g. image sound file PDF etc. in the conversation. Thus when a triggering event arises a message sent to the remote user device in a conversation may be highly customized. This very same conversation may have normal text messages. Thus it is possible for conversations to have any number of regular text messages and customized messages.

Referring to block of for illustration a first sub channel in the corresponding plurality of sub channels associated with a respective primary communication channel processes at least part of the communication bound for the remote user device associated with the first user e.g. in a conversation by receiving an original message from the corresponding enterprise data source . The message is converted into a set of commands that are interpretable with a command parser e.g. a stock widget within the conversation that is running on the remote user device . The set of commands includes instructions for how to display portions of the message on the remote user device that are not present in the original message. The set of commands is submitted to the remote user device associated with the first user for interpretation by a command parser e.g. the widget running on the remote user device . The command parser may then display on the remote user device within the conversation the one or more affordances in accordance with the original message from the enterprise data source .

Referring to block of in some embodiments the instructions for how to display portions of the message on the remote user device include instructions to display one or more affordances e.g. one or more check boxes one or more radio buttons one or more slide bars one or more input fields one or more radio buttons one or more drop down menus or one or more shopping carts on the remote user device .

Referring to block of in some embodiments the set of commands is for an embedded object and the original message specifies a plurality of parameters for the embedded object. For instance in some embodiments the embedded object is a preformatted menu of options and the plurality of parameters are the menu options. Referring to block of in some such embodiments the plurality of parameters comprises a unique identifier for the embedded object a label to be displayed with the embedded object a unique name for the embedded object and a variable that specifies a type e.g. text box text area a radio button a drop down menu a check box list an image a video HTML an option and a check box of the embedded object. In some embodiments the set of commands is for a plurality of such embedded objects. Referring to block of in one example the plurality of parameters further comprises one or more URL to post data from the embedded object after interaction of the embedded object with the first user within the first sub channel .

In an embodiment the secure mobile communication platform provides an automated electronic file cabinet to each of the users for storing attachments to messages in the respective sub channels based on predetermined criteria. In some embodiments the electronic file cabinet is stored on server as illustrated in . In some embodiments the electronic file cabinet is cloud based system and is accessible from any remote user device for example a personal computer a tablet computing device a mobile phone a smart phone a laptop a personal digital assistant etc.

To support the disclosed electronic file cabinet in some embodiments an enterprise data source organizes its attachments with the following considerations. There is one primary channel per enterprise data source multiple sub channels per primary channel and multiple chatrooms per sub channel . Typically the enterprise data source sets up a root folder for high level content at the primary channel level. In some embodiments this high level content is accessible to all primary channel administrators for distribution to users. In some embodiments this high level content is accessible to some sub channel administrators . Below the root folder the enterprise data source sets up a folder for each sub channel . In some embodiments the content in the folder the enterprise data source maintains for a sub channel can be viewed by all sub channel administrators . In some embodiments the content in the folder the enterprise data source maintains for a sub channel can be edited by some sub channel administrators . For each sub channel folder the enterprise data source maintains a folder for each chatroom in the sub channel . In some embodiments the files in the chatrooms can be viewed by all sub channel administrators that have access to the chatrooms. The files in the chatrooms are the files sent by the end users they are not created by the enterprise data source . The enterprise data source manages content to be sent to end user at the primary channel and sub channel levels. In some embodiments to facilitate such a file system architecture the enterprise data source super administrator and or primary channel administrator connects communications module E with an administrative account on Box Dropbox etc. Communications module E then creates a folder owned by the enterprise data source super administrator and or primary channel administrator . Communication module E then creates subfolders for each sub channel . Within each sub channel communications module E creates subfolders for each chatroom. Then the enterprise data source super administrator and or primary channel administrator has full access to the content of these folders. The sub channel administrators have to the content in the sub channel folders. The end user does not have direct access to this file system set up for the enterprise data source. Rather the end user makes use of the electronic file cabinet described below with reference to .

In some embodiments electronic file cabinet of a user such as that illustrated in contains links to the appropriate files stored by enterprise data sources . For instance for a given sub channel of primary channel supported by the user s electronic file cabinet there are links to the documents for that sub channel to the file system of the enterprise data source described above. For instance when a file is sent in a sub channel from an enterprise data source a link to the file is stored in the electronic file cabinet of the user and this link is to an actual copy of the file stored in the file system of the enterprise data source described above. In other embodiments electronic file cabinet of a user such as that illustrated in contains copies of the appropriate files sent by enterprise data sources . For instance when a file is sent in a sub channel from an enterprise data source a copy of this file is stored in the electronic file cabinet of the user indexed to the appropriate sub channel.

As illustrated in from the end user perspective in some embodiments the electronic file cabinet is indexed by user with each such user having a file cabinet. The user file cabinet is indexed in turn by primary channels of the user and for each such respective primary channel a repository for each of the sub channels of the respective primary channel. In some embodiments respective sub channels are further indexed by chatrooms within the sub channels and the user is only granted access to the files in those chatrooms that the user participates in.

In some embodiments files sent from a single enterprise data source to a user are viewed by the remote user at remote user device collectively together. For instance consider the case in which the enterprise data source has established a primary channel containing two sub channels with a remote user at remote user device . Files have been sent to the user in both sub channels and these files have been stored in the electronic file cabinet in the respective sub channel folders. Subsequently when the remote user requests access to files from the enterprise data source the electronic file cabinet provides a listing of all the files in both sub channel folders collectively. Such embodiments operate with the assumption that a user does not need to see files at the sub channel level. However in some embodiments the user is able to segment their query and view just the files in a sub channel of a given enterprise data source. Users may send files to an enterprise data source within chatrooms. In some embodiments such files only appear in the enterprise data source s folder structure and not in the users file system.

In some embodiments the electronic file cabinet stores the messages to or from the user in a sub channel in the corresponding sub channel repository .

In some embodiments the electronic file cabinet only stores the attachments to messages to or from the user in a sub channel in the corresponding sub channel repository .

In some embodiments the electronic file cabinet only stores the attachments to messages to the user in a sub channel in the corresponding sub channel repository . In such embodiments the electronic file cabinet does not store messages to the user and does not store message from the user or attachments from the user.

The electronic file cabinet is useful for a number of use cases. A sub channel administrator may want to share files with consumers using files relevant to a specific sub channel e.g. images for coupons PDFs for instructions . Thus the sub channel administrator may stream these files to the user and the electronic file cabinet conveniently stores these files. In another example a sub channel administrator may want to accept files from consumers such as signed documents or screenshots. Further an end user may want to share files with an enterprise data source by streaming the sub channel administrator in a chat room in a sub channel for the sub channel administrator to review. In still another user case the end user may want to see content shared with the user by an enterprise data source.

In some embodiments users can use and search the electronic file cabinet of the secure mobile communication platform to search for messages and or attachments. For example a user can search the secure cloud based filing system based on respective enterprise data source e.g. all messages or message attachments sent from the enterprise data source to the user or from the user to the enterprise data source a relevant month e.g. all messages or message attachments associated with the user in the relevant month etc. In some embodiments only message attachments and not messages are stored in the electronic file cabinet .

In some embodiments the automated filing system is a combination of file storage and related metadata storage in a database for example a file system implementation using the MySQL database of MySQL AB Company with the ELASTICSEARCH search engine of Elasticsearch BV. In some embodiments the established primary channels the generated sub channels the stored messages in those optional embodiments where messages are stored in the electronic file cabinet the stored content e.g. file attachments etc. are searchable through the secure mobile communication platform for providing information on demand in real time.

Referring to block of as well as a first sub channel in a plurality of sub channels associated with a respective primary communication channel processes at least part of the communication from the corresponding enterprise data source associated with the sub channel that is bound for the remote user device associated with a first user by first receiving an original message from the corresponding enterprise data source . The original message is associated with an attachment e.g. a document or a video . An electronic copy of the attachment is made and the electronic copy of the attachment in is stored in the electronic file cabinet associated with the user . The stored electronic copy is indexed to the first sub channel . The original message and the associated attachment is then communicated within the first sub channel to the remote user device associated with the first user.

Referring to block of in some embodiments the electronic file cabinet is stored in a remote device e.g. remote server virtual machine independent of the corresponding enterprise data source . In such embodiments the remote device is addressable by the server system across a network .

Referring to in some embodiments the disclosed systems and methods offer the feature of automatically storing attachments to messages communicated in a sub channel in an electronic file cabinet . In some embodiments the attachments are indexed by sub channel primary channel and by user. In some embodiments the messages and the attachments are stored in the electronic file cabinet . In some embodiments only the attachments are stored in the electronic file cabinet . An example of an attachment that is stored in the electronic file cabinet are billing statements. Advantageously the disclosed systems and methods provide considerable control to system designers on how to set up privileges to the documents stored in the electronic file cabinet . For instance in some embodiments user privileges to documents are set up on a user basis a primary channel administrator basis a sub channel administrator basis and or a third party basis .

User privileges are the privileges the user associated with a given sub channel has with respect to a given document . In some embodiments these privileges are read privileges write privileges edit privileges deletion privileges and or copy privileges to the document .

Primary channel administrator privileges are the privileges the primary channel administrator of the primary channel of the sub channel that communicated the document has with respect to a given document . In some embodiments these privileges are read privileges write privileges edit privileges deletion privileges and or copy privileges to the document .

Sub channel administrator privileges are the privileges the sub channel administrator of the sub channel that communicated the document has with respect to a given document . In some embodiments these privileges are read privileges write privileges edit privileges deletion privileges and or copy privileges to the document .

Third party privileges are the privileges that a third party other than the enterprise data source and the user has with respect to a given document . In some embodiments these privileges are read privileges write privileges edit privileges deletion privileges and or copy privileges to the document .

Accordingly referring to block of in some embodiments an entity associated with the enterprise data source e.g. primary channel administrator privileges sub channel administrator privileges has a first access privilege to the electronic copy of the attachment in the electronic file cabinet associated with the first user. The first user has a second access privilege to the electronic copy of the attachment in the electronic file cabinet associated with the user. In some embodiments the first access privilege is different than e.g. independent of the second access privilege. For example the first access privilege may comprise an edit privilege a read privilege and a deletion privilege to the electronic copy of the attachment in the electronic file cabinet associated with the user . The second access privilege consists of a read privilege to the electronic copy of the attachment in the electronic file cabinet associated with the first user . Referring to block of as another non limiting example the first access privilege and the second access privilege are each independently one or more of edit privileges read privileges and deletion privileges to the electronic copy of the attachment in the electronic file cabinet associated with the first user .

In some embodiments a link to an attachment is generated when the attachment is stored in the electronic file cabinet . Then rather than sending the full electronic version of the attachment to a user from the enterprise data source a link to the attachment now stored in the file cabinet of the user is sent. Block of illustrates such an embodiment a first sub channel in the corresponding plurality of sub channels associated with a respective primary communication channel processes at least part of the communication from the corresponding enterprise data source that is bound for a remote user device associated with a first user by receiving an original message from the corresponding enterprise data source . The original message is associated with an attachment. The processing of the message causes the attachment to be stored in an electronic file cabinet associated with the first user . The stored attachment is indexed to the first sub channel and the storing produces a link to the stored attachment in the electronic file cabinet associated with the first user . The original message is then communicated within the first sub channel with the link to the stored attachment to the remote user device associated with the first user. If the user wishes to see the attachment the link to the attachment in the file cabinet of the user is used to retrieve the attachment from the file cabinet of the user . Referring to block of in some such embodiments the electronic file cabinet is stored in a remote file storage device e.g. remote server virtual machine independent of the corresponding enterprise data source . In such embodiments the remote file storage device is addressable by the server system across network . Referring to block of in some such embodiments an entity associated with the enterprise data source e.g. primary channel administrator privileges sub channel administrator privileges has a first access privilege to the attachment in the electronic file cabinet associated with the first user . The first user has a second access privilege to the attachment in the electronic file cabinet associated with the user . In some embodiments the first access privilege is different than e.g. independent of the second access privilege. Referring to block of for example the first access privilege may comprise an edit privilege a read privilege and a deletion privilege to the attachment in the electronic file cabinet associated with the user . The second access privilege may consist of a read privilege to the attachment in the electronic file cabinet associated with the user . Referring to block of in some embodiments the first access privilege and the second access privilege are each independently one or more of edit privileges read privileges and deletion privileges to the attachment in the electronic file cabinet associated with the first user .

In some embodiments the original message from an enterprise data source does not include an electronic copy of an attachment but rather has a link to the attachment where the link is an address of the attachment in a database associated with the enterprise data source. In some such embodiments the platform retrieves the attachment using the link stores a copy of the attachment in the file cabinet of the user produces a second link to the stored attachment in the electronic file cabinet associated with the first and sends the message to the user with the second link. Block of illustrates such an embodiment a first sub channel in the corresponding plurality of sub channels associated with a respective primary communication channel processes at least part of the communication from the corresponding enterprise data source that is bound for the remote user device associated with a first user by receiving an original message from the corresponding enterprise data source . The original message is associated with a first link to an attachment. The attachment is stored in a database associated with the corresponding enterprise data source and the first link provides access to the stored attachment. An electronic copy of the attachment is made using the first link. The electronic copy of the attachment is stored in an electronic file cabinet associated with the first user . The stored electronic copy of the attachment is indexed to the first sub channel and the storing produces a second link to the stored attachment in the electronic file cabinet associated with the first user . The original message and the second link are communicated within the first sub channel to the remote user device associated with the first user. If the user wishes to see the attachment the second link to the attachment in the file cabinet of the user is used to retrieve the attachment from the file cabinet of the user . Referring to block of in some embodiments the electronic file cabinet is stored in a remote file storage device e.g. remote server virtual machine independent of the corresponding enterprise data source . In such embodiments the remote file storage device is addressable by the server system across a network. Referring to block of in some embodiments an entity associated with the enterprise data source e.g. primary channel administrator privileges sub channel administrator privileges has a first access privilege to the electronic copy of the attachment in the electronic file cabinet associated with the first user . The first user has a second access privilege to the electronic copy of the attachment in the electronic file cabinet associated with the user . In some embodiments the first access privilege is different than e.g. independent of the second access privilege. Referring to block of for example the first access privilege may comprise an edit privilege a read privilege and a deletion privilege to the electronic copy of the attachment in the electronic file cabinet associated with the user . The second access privilege may consist of a read privilege to the electronic copy of the attachment in the electronic file cabinet associated with the user . Referring to block of in some embodiments the first access privilege and the second access privilege are each independently one or more of edit privileges read privileges and deletion privileges to the attachment copy in the electronic file cabinet associated with the user .

Advantageously the disclosed systems and methods provide a number of application programming interface components that may be incorporated into conversations in sub channels . These application programming interface components are designed to assist the enterprise data source in rapidly setting up functions such as bill payment menus boxes the display of information and other tasks that may facilitate transactions with users. Referring to in some embodiments the communications module such as the instance of the communications module C running on the secure mobile communication platform provides several different application programming interface functions . Each such function has a number of data elements that serve as input to the function . Moreover each such function is associated with an applet that is invoked when the corresponding function is called. Non limiting examples of such applets are bill payment applets menus box applets and applets designed to display retrieved information. In some embodiments an applet of is a form of control of .

Block of illustrates the use of an application programming interface function in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. A sub channel in a plurality of sub channels associated with a primary communication channel processes at least part of the communication from the corresponding enterprise data source that is bound for a remote user device associated with a first user for instance in a one to one conversation between the enterprise data source and the remote user device by receiving an original message from the corresponding enterprise data source. The original message includes a set of data elements and an application programming interface function call associated with the set of data elements. For example consider the case where the application programming interface function call is a menu box. Here the set of data elements would be the menu options for the menu box. Responsive to receiving the original message the communications module automatically and without human intervention invokes the application programming interface function . This invoking passes the set of data elements in the message to the application programming interface function and generates the corresponding applet that is communicated within the first sub channel to the remote user device associated with the first user. For instance continuing with the menu box example an applet is presented within the conversation in the sub channel to the first user with a set of menu options where each of the menu options is one of the data elements in the original message from the enterprise data source . Thus in this way the enterprise data source is able to take advantage of a mature applet by simply providing the data necessary to customize the applet.

Referring to block in some embodiments the applet is an automated agent that is responsive to user input at the remote user device associated with the first user. For instance in some embodiments the applet is an automated human interface module.

Referring to block in some embodiments an applet is able to receive a query from within a first sub channel e.g. within a conversation in the first sub channel . For instance the applet may provide an inventory search panel within the conversation that accepts user queries. Responsive to such a query a search of a database associated with the corresponding enterprise data source is made outside of the first sub channel. This database is electronically addressable by the enterprise data source . Then matches to the query in the database are communicated to the applet within the first sub channel

Referring to block in some embodiments the applet is a bill payment applet and the method further comprises receiving a payment communication from the applet within a first sub channel e.g. from within a conversation in the first sub channel from the first user e.g. the remote user device associated with the first user for goods or a service provided by the enterprise data source . The payment is verified against a credit source associated with the first user e.g. Paypal etc. . When verified by the credit source a database e.g. an accounting database associated with the enterprise data source is updated to reflect the payment. Further there is a communication to the applet within the first sub channel e.g. a one to one conversation in the first sub channel between the enterprise data source and the first user that the payment has been made. When the credit source is unable to verify payment the method further comprises communicating to the applet within the first sub channel that the payment has not been made.

Referring to block of in some embodiments the applet facilitates a marketing campaign sponsored by the corresponding enterprise data source. IN such marketing campaigns individualized messages offering a product service or incentive are sent to users in one to one conversations between the enterprise data source and users associated with remote user devices . Advantageously applets can display these messages on remote user devices and track in real time the disposition of the messages e.g. whether they were read etc. and communicate such information back to the enterprise data source . The enterprise data source may use such information from a single remote user device or aggregated information from several remote user devices to target new messages to one or more users as well as dynamically determine which variables e.g. demographic variables temporal variable etc. affect the success of the campaign. Consider a scenario in which the target is to maximize the percentage of time the sent messages are viewed by users. Does the age of the users affect this target Does the appearance of the message in the applet affect this target Is there some interdependence between age and the appearance of the message in the applet affects this target The disclosed system advantageously addresses these questions in real time. In fact the information acquired from conversations in real time can be used to dynamically segment the user population and optimize what is sent to each portion of the user population.

Referring to block of in some embodiments the applet interprets markup language commands received within the first sub channel at the remote user device associated with the first user. For example in some embodiments an applet is a sophisticated HTML parser that allows for the implementation of sophisticated HTML graphics and other HTML functions within conversations.

The disclosed systems and methods in which enterprises data sources form conversations with individual end users allows for a unique opportunity to effectuate marketing campaigns. In such marketing campaigns individualized messages offering a product service or incentive are sent to end users in one to one conversations between the enterprise data source and users associated with remote user devices . Advantageously these messages are displayed on remote user devices and the real time disposition of such messages e.g. whether they were read etc. is track and such information is communicated back to the enterprise data source . The enterprise data source may use such information from a single remote user device or aggregated information from several remote user devices to target new messages to one or more users as well as dynamically determine which variables e.g. demographic variables temporal variable etc. affect the success of the campaign. Thus referring to block of J a first sub channel in the plurality of sub channels associated with a respective primary communication channel processes at least part of the communication from the corresponding enterprise data source that is bound for the remote user device associated with the first user in a conversation by receiving an original message from the corresponding enterprise data source in accordance with a message campaign sponsored by the enterprise data source responsive to receiving the original message. Then automatically and without human intervention an application programming interface function is invoked for the message campaign. This passes information in the original message to the application programming interface function and generates an applet e.g. widget control etc. that is communicated within the conversation in the first sub channel to the remote user device associated with the first user. Then monitoring is set up to monitor through communications received from the remotely installed applet within conversation in the first sub channel responses to the messaging campaign. Referring to block in some embodiments the invoked application programming interface function makes use of a value of a demographic characteristic e.g. age a location a level of participation a customer rewards program a length of time enrolled in a customer rewards program a number of purchases the user has made with the enterprise data source a total of amount of purchases the first user has made with the enterprise data source during a predetermined time frame the last time the first user has made with the enterprise data source a type of item the first user has purchased from the enterprise data source or a sex of the first user in the user profile corresponding to the first user to determine which information in the message to pass to the application programming interface function.

Advantageously the unique architecture disclosed herein in which conversations that are traceable to a specific end user of the system provides for a unique opportunity to ensure the security of such conversations and thus the non repudiation of such conversations. For instance due to the traceability of conversations and their security e.g. with all messages in the conversation encrypted in some embodiments when an end user makes a purchase or other form of transaction within a conversation in a sub channel neither the end user nor the enterprise data source can repudiate the purchase claim the transaction did not take place . Accordingly referring to block of a conversation in a first sub channel in the corresponding plurality of sub channels is associated with a respective primary communication channel is associated with the unique identifier corresponding to first user. The unique identifier is used as a basis for non repudiation of the conversation. In some embodiments the conversation in the first sub channel is used to conduct a purchase or other form of transaction by the first user from the corresponding enterprise data source associated with the conversation.

In some embodiments widgets e.g. controls applets within conversations are hosted on one or more virtual machines. In other embodiments such widgets are hosted elsewhere such as downloaded onto end user devices .

Referring to block of in some embodiments a conversation in a first sub channel in the corresponding plurality of sub channels associated with a respective primary communication channel processes at least part of the communication from the corresponding enterprise data source that is bound for a remote user device that is associated with a first user by receiving an original message from the corresponding enterprise data source . The original message includes a set of data elements and an application programming interface function call associated with the set of data elements. Responsive to receiving the original message automatically and without human intervention the application programming interface function is invoked. This invoking passes the set of data elements to the application programming interface function.

In some embodiments this in turn generates an application e.g. widget control applet that is hosted within a virtual machine.

In other embodiments the application is already running or is enabled on the virtual machine and the application programming interface function is passed to the application. In some embodiments the virtual machine is run on a server that is independent from the secure mobile communications platform but is addressable by the platform.

In still other embodiments the application is already running or is enabled on the enterprise data source and the application programming interface function is passed to the application.

Regardless of its location the application communicates within or operates on the first sub channel with the remote user device associated with the first user.

Referring to block in some embodiments the application is an automated agent that is responsive to user input at the remote user device associated with the first user.

Referring to block in some embodiments a query is received at the application within the conversation in the first sub channel from the remote user device associated with the first user. In some embodiments responsive to this there is obtained from a database associated with the corresponding enterprise data source content that is responsive to the query outside of the conversation in the first sub channel . This content is communicated to the application within the conversation in the first sub channel. Referring to block in some embodiments the application is a bill payment application and the method further comprises receiving a payment communication from the application within the conversation in the first sub channel from the first user where the payment communication includes a payment for goods or a service provided by the enterprise data source . This payment is verified against a credit source associated with the first user. When the payment is verified by the credit source the method further comprises updating a database associated with the enterprise data source to reflect that the payment has been made and communicating to the application within the conversation in the first sub channel that the payment has been made. When the credit source is unable to verify payment the method further comprises communicating to the application within the first sub channel that the payment has not been made.

Referring to block in some embodiments the application facilitates a marketing campaign sponsored by the corresponding enterprise data source.

Referring to block in some embodiments the application interprets markup language commands from the corresponding enterprise data source received within the first sub channel associated with the first user.

Referring to block in some optional embodiments as discussed above the application is hosted on a virtual machine and in some instances this virtual machine is hosted at a remote computer associated with the corresponding enterprise data source. Referring to block in some embodiments the virtual machine is hosted at the enterprise data source server system.

Referring to block in some embodiments the application is initialized in a conversation in a first sub channel in the corresponding plurality of sub channels associated with a respective primary communication channel . This installs the application within a first virtual machine. A first communication is sent from the corresponding enterprise data source to the application within the first sub channel. Responsive to the first communication output from the application is communicated to the remote user device associated with the first user within the first sub channel. The first sub channel is then monitored for feedback from the first user. When feedback is detected the feedback is routed to the application.

Referring to block in some embodiments the application is an automated agent that is responsive to the feedback from the remote user device associated with the first user.

Referring to block in some embodiments a query is received at the application within the first sub channel from the remote user device associated with the first user. Responsive to this there is obtained from a database or any other form of computer readable media that is capable of storing information associated with the corresponding enterprise data source content that is responsive to the query. In some embodiments the query is outside of the first sub channel. The retrieve content is then communicated to the application within the first sub channel. Further the content from the application is communicated within the first sub channel to the remote device associated with the first user.

Referring to block in some embodiments the application is a bill payment application and a payment communication is received from the application within the first sub channel from the first user. The communication includes payment for goods or a service provided by the enterprise data source. The payment is verified against a credit source associated with the first user. When verified a database associated with the enterprise data source is updated to reflect the payment and confirmation is communicated to the application within the first sub channel. When payment is not verified this failure is communicated to the application within the first sub channel.

Referring to block in some embodiments the application facilitates a marketing campaign sponsored by the corresponding enterprise data source.

Referring to block in some embodiments the application interprets markup language commands from the corresponding enterprise data source received within the first sub channel associated with the first user.

As discussed above in some embodiments the application is running on a virtual machine. Referring to block in some embodiments the virtual machine is hosted at a remote computer associated with the corresponding enterprise data source. Referring to block in some embodiments the virtual machine is hosted at the server system.

In some embodiments the disclosed systems and methods challenges enterprise data sources in unique way prior to onboarding them into the secure mobile communications platform . In some embodiments this challenge is by way of human approval. For instance in some embodiments prior to onboarding a potential new enterprise data source into system a human representative of the potential new enterprise data source is interviewed by a human representative of the secure mobile communications platform . In some embodiments a characteristic of this interview is the disclosure by the potential new enterprise data source of private information that the human representative of the secure mobile communications platform can verify. This is an improvement over conventional social media platforms that do not provide adequate controls to prevent spoofing of well known enterprises data sources e.g. well known department stores . Such activity is prevented by the disclosed secure mobile communications platform because of the verification process that enterprise data sources must undergo in order to be enrolled by the platform . In some embodiments this onboarding of enterprise data sources is performed on an automated basis using a specialized automated human interface module described below in conjunction with where the module has a specialized node graph that steers a potential enterprise data source through a series of nodes depending on information provided by the potential enterprise data source . In such instances the conversation is between the potential enterprise data source and the secure mobile communications platform . In some embodiments artificial intelligence or machine based learning is imposed in one or more nodes of the node graph to assist in on boarding the potential enterprise data source. In some embodiments nodes in the graph will challenge the potential enterprise data source for information and verify this information e.g. check if the potential enterprise data source s IP address is in a specified geographic domain check a web address associated with the potential enterprise data source ask for a scanned or electronic copy of a business card etc. . In some embodiments a node of the automated human interface module will ask for certain documents and will provide a widget in the conversation to assist the potential enterprise data source in uploading these documents. Thus some embodiments of the secure mobile communications platform provides different ways to verify potential enterprise data sources

Block of illustrates an example embodiment for such verification. An enrollment process for a potential enterprise data source is initiated when the enterprise data source makes an enrollment request. Responsive to the enrollment request the potential enterprise data source is electronically challenged. A response to the electronic challenge is received from the potential enterprise data source. In this way the potential enterprise data source is required to establish a basis to a claim of identity as part of enrollment in the secure mobile communications platform . Referring to block of in some embodiments the response to the electronic challenge is parsed using a trained classifier where the trained classifier e.g. a support vector machine neural network etc. to determine whether the response establishes the identity for the enterprise data source.

Referring to the disclosed user interface of the communications module client side C provides with a single affordance e.g. affordance for TARGET the ability to connect with an enterprise data source and obtain all the functionality that enterprise data source could possibly want to provide in single selection of an affordance e.g. a single tap of the affordance . For instance by tapping on affordance of the user interface of module C on the remote user device is updated to the display illustrated in . In all the functionality that TARGET desires to provide to end users is offered as one or more secure sub channels . If desired any of these sub channels can host a secure bi directional conversation between the exemplary enterprise data source TARGET and the end user associated with the remote user device . Further there is no requirement that each of the sub channels host a bidirectional conversation. In some embodiments some of the sub channels may be used to push data such as advertisements media or other forms of information. Moreover as disclosed herein in instances where sub channels host conversations the enterprise data source can build into the conversations widgets e.g. applets that provide any desired functionality to support transactions and end user experience.

In conventional systems an enterprise data source must publish one or more applications to provide a comparable service to the end user. For instance as of the date of the filing of the present disclosure AMAZON publishes one application Amazon Music with Prime Music for listening to music on remote devices a second application Amazon Video for watching videos on remote devices a third application Amazon Prime Now for shopping on the Amazon network a fourth application Amazon Photos for cloud and drive storage and backup and a fifth application Kindle for reading digital books. Thus it is necessary to download from an application store and install on the remote user device each of these applications in order to obtain all of AMAZON s remote device functionally. Moreover AMAZON updates these applications the end user is forced to download and reinstall each of these updated applications on their remote user device . For end users that are interested in interacting with multiple enterprise data sources this leads to an untenable situation where much of their network bandwidth is devoted to the download of numerous updated applications. Using the disclosed secure mobile communications platform it is possible to encapsulate all of this functionality in a single affordance e.g. in the case of TARGET that expands out into a plurality of sub channels . Thus with reference to AMAZON a first sub channel would replace AMAZON s first application Amazon Music with Prime Music a second sub channel would replace AMAZON s second application Amazon Video for watching videos on remote devices a third sub channel would replace AMAZON s third application Amazon Prime Now for shopping on the Amazon network a fourth sub channel would replace AMAZON s fourth application Amazon Photos for cloud and drive storage and backup and a fifth sub channel would replace AMAZON s fifth application Kindle for reading digital books. Thus rather than downloading and installing five applications the user would click a single button and have all the desired functionality. Moreover as illustrated in with affordances if the user did not wish to have certain of the sub channels they could simply turn such sub channels off. Thus the disclosed systems and methods provide a novel environment in which a user connects to a primary channel associated with an enterprise data source and then switches on and off sub channels rather than downloading over and over again applications from application stores. Thus once again referring to the simple act of hitting the affordance for TARGET or the plus affordance for enterprise data source is equivalent to the conventional act of going to an on line application store find the application download the application providing the application with your user name and password each time. In fact in some embodiments of the present disclosure the user profile stores the credentials of the user so that when the user selects a new enterprise data source the credentials are passed on to the new enterprise data source making the addition of a new primary channel to the user interface of module C a one step process.

Block of illustrates this process in accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure. There is received from a first user a request to view available enterprise data sources in the plurality of enterprise data sources e.g. by selection of affordance in . Responsive to receiving the request a subset of available enterprises data sources in the plurality of enterprise data sources is selected. Information regarding the subset of the plurality of enterprise data sources is sent to the remote user device associated with the first user for instance as illustrated in . A selection of a first enterprise data source in the plurality of enterprise data sources is received from the remote user device associated with the first user. Responsive to receiving the selection of the first enterprise data source the first enterprise data source is added to the user profile corresponding to the first user. The first user is joined to a primary communication channel associated with the enterprise data source . This primary communication channel facilitates electronic communication between the first corresponding enterprise data source and the first user. The user is further joined to a first plurality of sub channels associated with the primary communication channel automatically without human intervention. This first plurality of sub channels form a corresponding first hierarchical tree in which the first primary communication channel is a root node and the first plurality of sub channels are child nodes. At least one sub channel in the first hierarchy of sub channels enables a conversation comprising bidirectional communication between i the remote user device associated with the first user and ii the first enterprise data source. The conversation is limited to only this first user no other first user may participate in the conversation although the enterprise data source may use the sub channel to host similar private conversations with other end users. In this way one or more secure transmissions and one or more secure receptions of messages is facilitated between the first enterprise data source and the remote user device associated with the first user.

Referring to block of the selection of the first enterprise data source from the remote user device associated with the first user is made when the first user selects an affordance on the display of the remote user device that is associated with the first enterprise data source.

Referring to block of in some embodiments the affordance is a plus sign displayed next to a designation of the first enterprise data source on the display of the remote user device.

Referring to block in some embodiments the adding obtains a user credential for the first user from the profile of the first user and passes this user credential e.g. phone number a login a password a street address a credit card number a name a government issued number for the first user or an E mail address to the first enterprise data source to verify the first user to the first enterprise data source.

Referring to block of a catalog or other information is communicated from the enterprise data source to the remote user device associated with a first user within a conversation hosted by a first sub channel in the corresponding plurality of sub channels associated with a respective primary communication channel in the plurality of primary communication channels. A response from the first user regarding the catalog or other information provided by the enterprise data source is received within the conversation in the first sub channel. The catalog selection or other forms of user selection such as menu choice selection etc. is processed using an automated human interface module e.g. automated human interface module employing a trained classifier thereby generating a reply to the catalog selection or other form of end user selection . A determination is made as to whether the reply is deemed to be satisfactory. For instance consider a situation where a user made a request for paint thinner. All responses to this user query are run through a classifier to determine whether the responses to the request are satisfactory. For instance if the replies pertain to paint thinner because the phrase paint thinner appears in the text of the responsive documents the classifier will deem the documents satisfactory. When the reply is deemed to be satisfactory the reply is communicated to the remote device associated with the first user within the conversation in the first sub channel. When the reply is deemed to not be satisfactory communication on the first sub channel e.g. the conversation between the remote user device associated with the first user and the enterprise data source is switched to a human associate with the corresponding enterprise data source of the first sub channel e.g. the conversation is routed to the sub channel administrator queue of . Referring to block in some embodiments the trained classifier makes the determination as to whether the reply is deemed to be satisfactory. Referring to block in some embodiments the automated human interface module employing the trained classifier is not associated with the enterprise data source .

Referring to block in some embodiments a query is received from a remote user device associated with a first user within a conversation hosted in a first sub channel in the corresponding plurality of sub channels associated with a respective primary communication channel in the plurality of primary communication channels. The query is processed using an automated human interface module employing a trained classifier thereby generating a reply to the query. A determination is made as whether the reply is deemed to be satisfactory. When the reply is deemed to be satisfactory the reply is communicated to the remote device associated with the first user within the first sub channel. When the reply is deemed to not be satisfactory the conversation is switched to a human associate with the corresponding enterprise data source of the first sub channel e.g. the conversation is routed to the sub channel administrator queue of . Referring to block in some embodiments the trained classifier makes the determination as to whether the reply is deemed to be satisfactory. Referring to block in some embodiments the automated human interface module employing the trained classifier is not associated with the enterprise data source.

Referring to block in some embodiments a query is received from a remote user device associated with a first user within a conversation hosted by a first sub channel in the corresponding plurality of sub channels associated with a respective primary communication channel in the plurality of primary communication channels. The query is processed using an automated human interface module employing a trained classifier thereby generating a reply to the query. The reply is communicated to the remote device associated with the first user within the first sub channel. A determination is made as to whether the reply is deemed to be satisfactory. When the reply is deemed to not be satisfactory the conversation is switched to a human associate with the corresponding enterprise data source of the first sub channel e.g. the conversation is routed to the sub channel administrator queue of . Referring to block in some embodiments the determination as to whether the reply is deemed to be satisfactory is based at least in part on further communication received from the first user within the conversation. Referring to block in some embodiments the automated human interface module employing the trained classifier is not associated with the enterprise data source.

Advantageously the secure mobile communication platform support permits geographic dependent messages. For instance referring to block of a location of a remote user device associated with a first user within a first sub channel in the corresponding plurality of sub channels associated with a respective primary communication channel in the plurality of primary communication channels is received. A determination is made as to whether the location is within a geographical zone e.g. country region state city town county metro code zip code in a plurality of geographical zones. When the location is within a geographical zone in the geographical plurality of zones information from the enterprise data source is communicated to the remote user device associated with the first user within the first sub channel based at least in part on the location. When the location is not within a geographical zone in the geographical plurality of zones no information from the enterprise data source is communicated to the remote user device associated with the first user within the first sub channel .

To illustrate an enterprise data source e.g. business entity for example MORANDI restaurant of Morandi LLC. offers a special offer for example a temporal offer from Mar. 2 2015 through Mar. 5 2015 to users subscribing to the ZAGATS.NYC.bestItalian. sub channel . In an embodiment the SMCB implements a periodic geolocation mechanism to transmit location sensitive messages to users through the sub channels . As used herein periodic geolocation mechanism refers to a method of determining a geolocation of a user e.g. consumer and delivering different content to the user based on the user s location parameters comprising for example country region state city metro code zip code organization internet protocol IP address an internet service provider ISP etc. The SMCB triggers a push notification if the user due to the periodic geolocation obtained from the remote user device associated with the user heartbeats with a SMCB presence service when proximal to the MORANDI restaurant. For example if the user is within a two mile radius of the MORANDI restaurant then the SMCB sends the user a message about a 25 discount on a billing transaction for a dinner for two provided the billing transaction is greater than 150 through the sub channel . In an embodiment a consumer agent on a server or a cloud computer handles the push notification for example by performing a k cluster nearest neighbor calculation to determine a match with a standard deviation of 1 mile. As used herein k cluster nearest neighbor calculation refers to a pattern recognition calculation performed for statistical classification and regression analysis. The geolocation heartbeat can be expressed on a GOOGLE Map of Google Inc. to show pulse rate and movement of the user in a particular location. In an embodiment the SMCB supports the delivery of a message based on time scheduling with users being deemed active or relevant if they meet demographic criteria and are in a particular geographical location defined for example by a longitudinal and latitudinal address and therefore sends a message and or an offer to those users in real time through their respective sub channels .

All references cited herein are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The present invention can be implemented as a computer program product that comprises a computer program mechanism embedded in a nontransitory computer readable storage medium. For instance the computer program product could contain the program modules shown in any combination of or . These program modules can be stored on a CD ROM DVD magnetic disk storage product or any other non transitory computer readable data or program storage product.

Many modifications and variations of this invention can be made without departing from its spirit and scope as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The specific embodiments described herein are offered by way of example only. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. The invention is to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

