---

title: Integration of high-efficiency, lightweight solar sheets onto unmanned aerial vehicle for increased endurance
abstract: Some embodiments include a kit for supplying solar power in a battery-powered or fuel cell powered unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) by incorporating flexible solar cells into a component of a UAV, affixing flexible solar cells to a surface of a UAV, or affixing flexible solar cells to a surface of a component of a UAV. The kit also includes a power conditioning system configured to operate the solar cells within a desired power range and configured to provide power having a voltage compatible with an electrical system of the UAV. Another embodiments include a solar sheet configured for installation on a surface of a UAV or on a surface of a component of a UAV. The solar sheet includes a plurality of solar cells and a polymer layer to which the plurality of solar cells are attached.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09650148&OS=09650148&RS=09650148
owner: MICROLINK DEVICES, INC.
number: 09650148
owner_city: Niles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160418
---
The present application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 769 223 filed Feb. 15 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 599 390 filed Feb. 15 2012 the entire contents of each of these applications are hereby incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Contract No. FA8650 09 D 5037 awarded by the Air Force Research Laboratory AFRL . The government has certain rights in this invention.

Many of the current generation of unmanned aerial vehicles UAVs are electrically powered. Most electrically powered small UAVs are battery powered such as the RAVEN WASP III and PUMA AE by AeroVironment Inc. of Monrovia Calif. SCANEAGLE by Boeing of Seattle Wash. and the MAVERIC UAS by PRIORIA ROBOTICS of Gainesville Fla. The endurance i.e. total flight time of the vehicle with a full battery charge of the current generation of small electrically powered unmanned aerial vehicles UAVs is limited by power consumed by the UAV and the energy storage capacity of the battery. For example the endurance of the RAVEN UAV is limited to approximately 90 minutes of flight time. The limit on endurance of small UAVs reduces the operational effectiveness of the small UAVs because it limits the time the UAV can spend over a target of interest and limits a distance range for targets.

A High Altitude Long Endurance HALE UAV is an airborne vehicle which functions optimally at high altitude e.g. at least 30 000 feet or 9 000 meters above sea level and is capable of flights which last for considerable periods of time e.g. greater than 24 hours without recourse to landing. Generally recent generations of HALE UAVs are capable of operating at high altitudes and longer flight times than prior generations. Some examples of HALE UAVs are GLOBAL HAWK by Northrop Grumman Corp. of Falls Church Va. ALTUS II by General Atomics Aeronautical Systems Inc. of San Diego Calif. PHANTOM EYE by Boeing of Seattle Wash. and ZEPHYR by Airbus Defense and Space of Farnborough UK. Recently some HALE UAVs such as ZEPHYR have been produced that can fly at a maximum altitude 70 000 feet. For some types of HALE UAVs the need to refuel can set a limit on the maximum flight time or endurance of the UAV. For some types of HALE UAVs that are powered exclusively by solar cells a reduction in the mass of the solar cells could increase the payload capacity of the HALE UAV.

Some embodiments described herein increase an endurance of a battery powered or fuel cell powered unmanned aerial vehicles UAV by adding a secondary power source in the form of a plurality of solar cells attached to or incorporated into a surface of the UAV or of a component of the UAV. Endurance of a battery powered or fuel cell powered UAV may be defined as a total flight time with an initially fully charged battery or as a total flight time with an initial specified battery charge level. Some embodiments include kits for increasing endurance of a battery powered or fuel cell powered UAV.

Some embodiments described herein provide solar sheets including a plurality of flexible solar cells configured to be attached to a component of a UAV. A high specific power ratio of power to mass of the solar cells and the solar sheets may reduce an overall weight required to generate an amount of power for a UAV. In some embodiments this can increase the number of solar cells that can be used on the UAV to generate power for the same amount of weight. In some embodiments this can increase the payload capacity of the UAV for the same number of solar cells.

In one embodiment a kit for supplying solar power in a battery powered or fuel cell powered UAV includes a plurality of solar cells configured to be installed on a surface of a battery powered or fuel cell powered UAV. Each of the plurality of solar cells has a specific power in a range of 1500 4500 W kg under air mass coefficient 1.5 AM1.5 light or a specific power in a range of 1870 5680 W kg under air mass coefficient 0 AM0 light. The kit also includes a power conditioning system configured to operate the plurality of solar cells within a desired power range and configured to provide power in the form of a voltage compatible with an electrical system of the UAV.

In some embodiments each of the plurality of solar cells has a specific power in a range of 2000 4500 W kg under AM1.5 light or a specific power in a range of 2520 5680 W kg under AM0. In some embodiments each of the plurality of solar cells has a specific power in a range of 2500 4500 W kg under AM1.5 light or a specific power in a range of 3150 5680 W kg under AM0. In some embodiments each of the plurality of solar cells has an areal power in a range of 260 360 W munder AM1.5 light or an areal power in a range of 325 450 W munder AM0. In some embodiments each of the plurality of solar cells has an areal mass in a range of 70 280 g m.

The power conditioning system may include a power conditioning circuit. In some embodiments the power conditioning system also include an electrical connection system configured to connect the power conditioning circuit with the plurality of solar cells and to connect the power conditioning circuit with an electrical system of the UAV.

In some embodiments at least a portion of the surface on which a solar cell is to be disposed is on a wing of the UAV.

In some embodiments the plurality of solar cells is incorporated into at least one flexible solar sheet. In some embodiments the at least one flexible solar sheet has a specific power in a range of 800 2350 W kg under AM1.5 light or in a range of 1020 3000 W kg under AM0. In some embodiments the at least one flexible solar sheet has a specific power in a range of 1000 2350 W kg under AM1.5 light or in a range of 1270 3000 W kg under AM0. In some embodiments the at least one flexible solar sheet has an areal mass in a range of 120 570 g m. In some embodiments the at least one flexible solar sheet has an areal mass in a range of 120 300 g m. The plurality of solar cells may include inverted metamorphic solar cells. The plurality of solar cells may also include solar cells produced using an epitaxial lift off process.

In some embodiments the kit is configured to retrofit a previously produced UAV. In some embodiments the kit is configured for upgrading a UAV during production. In some embodiments kit is configured to provide between 40 and 99 of the average power consumed by the UAV during use. In another embodiment the kit is configured to provide between 50 and 99 of the average power consumed by the UAV during use.

Another embodiment of the technology is directed to a kit for supplying power in a battery powered or fuel cell powered UAV that includes a component of an unmanned aerial vehicle. The component may include a plurality of solar cells and the component configured to be installed on a battery powered or fuel cell powered UAV. In some embodiments each of the plurality of solar cells has a specific power in a range of 1500 4500 W kg under air mass coefficient 1.5 AM1.5 light or a specific power in a range of 1870 5680 W kg under AM0. The kit may also include a power conditioning system configured to operate the plurality of solar cells within a desired power range and configured to provide power in the form of a voltage compatible with an electrical system of the UAV.

Another embodiment of the technology is directed to a solar sheet for installation on a component of a UAV. The solar sheet may include a plurality of solar cells each having a top surface and a specific power in a range of 1000 4500 W kg for AM1.5 light or a specific power in a range of 1270 5680 W kg under AM0. The solar sheet may further include a polymer layer to which the plurality of solar cells is attached.

In some embodiments each of the plurality of solar cells in the solar sheet has a specific power in a range of 1500 4500 W kg under AM1.5 light or a specific power in a range of 1870 5680 W kg under AM0. In some embodiments each of the plurality of solar cells in the solar sheet has a specific power in a range of 2000 4500 W kg under AM1.5 light or a specific power in a range of 2520 5680 W kg under AM0. In some embodiments each of the plurality of solar cells has a specific power in a range of 2500 4500 W kg under AM1.5 light or a specific power in a range of 3150 5680 W kg under AM0.

In some embodiments the solar sheet has a specific power in a range of 400 2350 W kg under AM1.5 light or in a range of 510 3000 W kg under AM0. In some embodiments the solar sheet has a specific power in a range of 800 2350 W kg under AM1.5 light or in a range of 1020 3000 W kg under AM0. In some embodiments the solar sheet has a specific power in a range of 1000 2350 W kg under AM1.5 light or in a range of 1270 3000 W kg under AM0.

In some embodiments each of the plurality of solar cells has an areal power in a range of 260 360 W munder AM1.5 light or an areal power in a range of 325 450 W munder AM0. In some embodiments the solar sheet has an areal power in a range of 200 330 W munder AM1.5 light or an areal power in a range of 260 410 W munder AM0. In some embodiments each of the plurality of solar cells has an areal mass in a range of 70 280 g m. In some embodiments the solar sheet has an areal mass in a range of 120 570 g m. In some embodiments the solar sheet has an areal mass in a range of 120 300 g m.

In some embodiments the solar sheet is configured to be attached to a wing. In some embodiments the solar sheet is a flexible solar sheet.

Each of the plurality of solar cells may include a metal backing layer. In some embodiments the metal backing layer has a thickness in a range of 2 to 30 microns. In some embodiments the metal backing layer has a thickness in a range of 2 to 15 microns.

In some embodiments the solar sheet includes a first adhesive layer configured to attach the solar sheet to a component of a UAV. In some embodiments the first adhesive layer is in contact with a bottom surface of each solar cell in the plurality of solar cells. The first adhesive layer may have a thickness in a range of 8 microns and 15 microns. In some embodiments the first adhesive layer includes a plurality of cutouts each of the plurality of cutouts corresponding to a position of a corresponding solar cell in the plurality of solar cells.

In some embodiments the solar sheet includes a first adhesive layer in contact with a bottom surface of each solar cell in the plurality of solar cells.

In some embodiments the solar sheet includes a second adhesive layer that attaches the plurality of solar cells to the polymer layer. The second adhesive layer may have a thickness in a range of 8 microns and 15 microns.

In some embodiments the solar sheet includes a second polymer sheet attached to the plurality of solar cells by the first adhesive layer.

In some embodiments each of the solar cells is an inverted metamorphic IMM triple junction solar cell. In some embodiments the IMM triple junction solar cell includes a top subcell including an AlInGaP layer a middle subcell including a GaAs layer a bottom subcell including an InGaAs layer and a metal backing layer in contact with the bottom cell. In some embodiments the IMM triple junction solar cell includes a top subcell including an InGaP layer a middle subcell including a GaAs layer a bottom subcell including an InGaAs layer and a metal backing layer in direct contact with the bottom subcell. In some embodiments each of the plurality of solar cells is formed by an epitaxial lift off process.

Another embodiment of the technology is directed to a method of increasing an endurance of a battery powered or fuel cell powered UAV. The method includes providing a component of a UAV. The component may include a plurality of solar cells each of the plurality of solar cells having a specific power in a range of 1500 4500 W kg under air mass coefficient 1.5 AM1.5 light or a specific power in a range of 1870 5680 W kg under AM0. The method further includes providing a power conditioning system configured to operate the plurality of solar cells within a desired power range and configured to provide power in the form of a voltage compatible with an electrical system of a UAV. The method also includes installing the component in a UAV and connecting the power conditioning system with the electrical system of the UAV.

In some embodiments the component is at least a portion of a wing. Installing the component in the UAV includes replacing a previously produced component in a previously produced UAV with the provided component. In some embodiments installing the component in the UAV occurs during manufacturing of the UAV.

The plurality of solar cells can be incorporated into at least one flexible solar sheet. In some embodiments the at least one flexible solar sheet has a specific power in a range of 800 2350 W kg under AM1.5 light or in a range of 1020 3000 W kg under AM0. In some embodiments the at least one flexible solar sheet has a specific power in a range of 1000 2350 W kg under AM1.5 light or in a range of 1270 3000 W kg under AM0.

Another embodiment of the technology is directed to a method of increasing an endurance of a battery powered or fuel cell powered UAV. The method includes attaching a plurality of solar cells to a surface of a battery powered or fuel cell powered UAV each of the plurality of solar cells having a specific power in a range of 1500 4500 W kg under air mass coefficient 1.5 AM1.5 light or a specific power in a range of 1870 5680 W kg under AM0. The method further includes providing a power conditioning system configured to operate the plurality of solar cells within a desired power range and configured to provide power in the form of a voltage compatible with an electrical system of the UAV. The method also includes connecting the power conditioning system with the electrical system of the UAV.

In some embodiments attaching a plurality of solar cells to a surface of at least a portion of a battery powered or fuel cell powered UAV includes attaching the plurality of solar cells to a surface of a wing of the UAV. In some embodiments attaching a plurality of solar cells to a surface of at least a portion of a battery powered or fuel cell powered UAV includes attaching the plurality of solar cells to a surface of at least a portion of a previously produced battery powered or fuel cell powered UAV. In some embodiments attaching a plurality of solar cells to a surface of at least a portion of a battery powered or fuel cell powered UAV can occur during initial production of the battery powered or fuel cell powered UAV.

The endurance of the current generation of small UAVs and some HALE UAVs is limited due the operational power requirements for the UAV and the limited energy storage capacity of the battery e.g. the endurance of the RAVEN small UAV is 60 90 minutes . Increasing endurance enhances the operational effectiveness of a small UAVs and HALE UAVs because a UAV with enhanced endurance can spend more time over the target of interest and or can travel to targets further away. Adding additional batteries may increase the endurance of a UAV however the additional batteries would substantially increase the weight of the UAV thereby reducing its payload or degrading its aerodynamic characteristics.

One of the problems addressed by some embodiments described herein is how to substantially increase the endurance of a UAV e.g. a small battery powered or fuel cell powered UAV such as the RAVEN or a HALE UAV without substantially increasing its size or weight. Some embodiments address this problem by providing a kit to equip a UAV with lightweight flexible high efficiency solar cells e.g. one or more solar cell strings or sheets of solar cells that supply additional power to the UAV thereby significantly increasing the endurance of the UAV as compared to a UAV without solar cells. Other embodiments address this problem by providing one or more solar sheets to be installed on a UAV either after the UAV has been produced or during production. Because the solar cells have relatively small mass per unit area they do not add significant weight to the UAV. In some embodiments the solar cells have a high specific power power to mass ratio providing significant power generation for relatively little added weight. For both small UAVs e.g. portable UAVs that may be transported or deployed by a single person in the field and HALE UAVs it is particularly important that the solar cells do not significantly increase the overall weight of the UAV which could degrade the aerodynamic performance of the UAV and decrease its endurance.

For solar powered UAVs a payload capacity of the UAV can be increased by replacing solar cells currently used in the UAV with solar cells or solar sheets capable of generating more power per unit mass of the solar cell or solar sheet. Some solar powered UAVs that incorporate higher specific power solar cells or higher specific power solar sheets can have increased endurance. Higher specific power solar cells and higher specific power solar sheets may enable more solar cells and solar sheets to be incorporated into a UAV without significantly increasing the weight of the UAV.

As used herein the term small UAV includes portable UAVs that may be carried by a single person. The term small UAV includes what may be referred to elsewhere as micro UAVs and mini UAVs and larger portable UAVs. Examples of small UAVs include the RQ 11B RAVEN UAV system with a weight of 1.9 kg and a wingspan of 1.4 m the WASP Micro Air Vehicle MAV with a weight of 0.43 kg and a wingspan of 72 cm and the RQ 20A PUMA with a weight of 5.9 kg and a wingspan of 2.8 m the MAVERIC UAV with a 72 cm in wingspan and a loaded weight of about 1.1 kg and the SCANEAGLE with a 3.1 m wingspan and an 18 kg.

As used herein the term HALE UAV refers to an aircraft that functions at high altitude i.e. greater than 30 000 feet or 9 000 meters and is capable of flights which last for considerable periods of time e.g. longer than 18 hours without recourse to landing which includes but is not limited to the GLOBAL HAWK ALTUS II PHANTOM EYE and ZEPHYR UAVs.

As used herein the term areal mass refers to mass per unit area. For example the areal mass of a solar cell is the mass of solar cell per unit area of the solar cell. As another example the areal mass of a solar sheet is the mass of solar sheet per unit area of the solar sheet.

As used herein the term areal power refers to power produced per unit area. For example the areal power of a solar cell is the power produced by the solar cell under a specified illumination divided by the area of the solar cell. As another example the areal power of a solar sheet is the power produced by the solar sheet under a specified illumination divided by the area of the solar sheet.

As used herein the term specific power refers to the power produced per unit mass. For example the specific power of a solar cell is the power produced by the solar cell under a specified illumination divided by the mass of the solar cell. As another example the specific power of a solar sheet is the power produced by the solar sheet under a specified illumination divided by the mass of the solar sheet. The specific power can also be defined as the areal power divided by areal mass.

As used herein the term solar sheet refers to a plurality of solar cells and one or more polymer layers to which the solar cells are affixed or attached. The solar sheet can also include interconnects that electrically connect at least some of the plurality of solar cells. The solar sheet can also include an adhesive that adheres the solar cells to the one or more polymer layers. The solar sheet can also include an adhesive to adhere the solar sheet to an underlying surface e.g. a surface of a component of an UAV to which the solar sheet is to be attached . The solar sheet can be flexible to conform to an underlying rounded surface e.g. the surface of a wing or the surface of a fuselage of a UAV .

Some embodiments described herein are broadly applicable to different sizes and different types of electrically powered UAVs. Some embodiments described herein are directed to small battery powered or fuel cell powered UAVs. Some embodiments described herein are applicable to HALE UAVs.

In some embodiments a kit including a plurality of solar cells e.g. one or more strings of solar cells solar cell strings or one or more sheets of solar cells solar sheets and a power conditioning system is used to increase endurance of a UAV. For example schematically depicts solar sheets of a kit mounted on a UAV 10 that includes a battery power system. As shown high efficiency flexible solar sheets have been mounted on a surface of the UAV e.g. the wing of the UAV . The kit also includes a power conditioning system configured to operate the solar cells within a desired power range or at a maximum power point and configured to provide a specified voltage to an electrical system of the UAV see below . The power conditioning system may also be configured to charge an energy storage device e.g. battery of the UAV system see below .

In some embodiments the plurality of solar cells e.g. one or more solar cell strings or solar sheets may be installed on a surface of a previously produced UAV e.g. as a post manufacturing modification . For example solar sheets of a kit may be applied to the wings of a previously produced UAV. The power conditioning system and associated electrical wiring may be installed in the wings and fuselage of the previously produced UAV and interfaced with the existing electrical system of the previously produced UAV. In some embodiments the kit may be an upgrade a retrofit or an aftermarket kit for installation on a previously produced UAV.

In some embodiments the plurality of solar cells e.g. solar sheet s may be mounted on or incorporated into a surface of a component of a UAV. The power conditioning system and associated electrical wiring e.g. electrical harness and connectors of the kit may be installed in the component. For example illustrates solar sheets each including multiple solar cells incorporated into a wing component forming a wing assembly .

In some embodiments the component with the solar sheet s e.g. wing assembly is used to replace a similar component in a previously produced UAV as a post manufacturing modification e.g. as a retrofit or as an aftermarket modification . For example a wing assembly including an installed kit may be used to replace a wing component in a previously produced UAV.

In some embodiments the component with the solar sheets e.g. the wing assembly is used during an initial manufacturing process of a UAV e.g. as an upgrade . For example a wing assembly with an installed kit may be incorporated into a UAV during initial manufacturing or assembly of the UAV as opposed to adding the solar cells and or the power conditioning system to a previously produced UAV.

Some embodiments may include an upgrade kit a retrofit kit or an aftermarket kit for existing UAVs such as the RAVEN UAV the Wasp III UAV the PUMA AE UAV the MAVERIC UAS GLOBAL HAWK ALTUS II PHANTOM EYE and ZEPHYR. Different embodiments of kits can be used with different types or different models of UAVs.

In some embodiments solar sheets are provided that are configured to adhere to a surface of a portion of a UAV. In some embodiments the solar sheets are configured to connect to a power conditioning system included in the UAV instead of being provided in a kit with a power conditioning.

In some embodiments the UAV may be designed with parts and connections configured for the incorporation of flexible light weight high efficiency solar cells or flexible light weight high specific power solar sheets. Incorporation of the solar cells or solar sheets into the UAV design may result in better aerodynamics more robust electrical connections and reduced additional weight to due to the solar cells packaging and wiring harness. Some embodiments include UAVs specifically designed for hybrid battery solar operation such as UAVs that are primarily battery powered with a secondary solar power system including flexible lightweight high efficiency solar cells. Some embodiments include electric UAVs whose primary power source is solar and that include one or more rechargeable batteries or fuel cells.

In some embodiments solar sheets are provided that are configured to adhere to a surface of a portion of a UAV. In some embodiments the solar sheets are configured to connect to a power conditioning system included in the UAV instead of being provided in a kit with a power conditioning. In some embodiments the solar cells or solar sheets are used with a UAV that was designed to have solar power as its primary power source or run exclusively on solar power e.g. the ZEPHYR HALE UAV .

In the embodiments depicted in the plurality of solar cells is incorporated into four solar sheets. In other embodiments the plurality of solar cells may be incorporated into less than four solar sheets e.g. one two or three solar sheets or may be incorporated into more than four solar sheets. In some embodiments the kit includes one or more solar sheets and one or more strings of solar cells or individual solar cells not incorporated into solar sheets. In some embodiments all of the plurality of solar cells are in the form of strings of solar cells or individual solar cells and not incorporated into solar sheets. Generally the number of solar sheets to be installed on a UAV or included in a kit for a UAV depends on various factors e.g. size of the UAV size of each solar sheets how many solar cells are incorporated into each solar sheet . In some embodiments the number of solar cells used on a UAV can be 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 or about 1000. In some embodiments the number of solar cells used on a UAV can be 1 000 2 000 3 000 4 000 5 000 6 000 7 000 8 000 or about 9 000. In some embodiments the number of solar sheets used on a UAV can be more than 10 000. In some embodiments the number of solar sheets used on a HALE UAV falls in a range of 100 to 1 000 solar sheets 100 to 1 500 solar sheets or 1 000 to 10 000 solar sheets.

In the embodiment depicted in the solar cells are positioned close to a leading edge of the wing with areas near the trailing edge of the wing not covered by solar cells. In this particular embodiment the center space near the trailing edge of the wing was left uncovered to avoid blocking reception of an internal antenna of the UAV. In other embodiments additional solar cells could be mounted in the areas near the trailing edge of the wing e.g. by incorporating more solar cells into sheets and or by adding additional solar sheets to increase the amount of solar power generated and thereby further enhance UAV endurance.

In the embodiments of the solar sheets are mounted on an upper surface of the wing . In some embodiments solar cells e.g. one or more solar sheets are applied to other surfaces of the UAV or to other components of the UAV including but not limited to one or more of the horizontal stabilizer the vertical stabilizer the fuselage and the underside of the wings. Solar cells on the sides and underside of the UAV collect light scattered from the ground as well as from the sun and sky.

The plurality of solar cells may be single junction solar cells multi junction solar cells e.g. double junction solar cells triple junction solar cells or any combination of single junction solar cells and multi junction solar cells. Although triple junction solar cells generally have a higher efficiency than that of single junction or double junction solar cells triple junction solar cells are generally more complicated to produce and may have a narrower wavelength range for high efficiency performance. The efficiency of the dual junction and single junction cells is less sensitive to the spectrum of the incident light than that of a triple junction cell so more energy may be obtained from dual junction or single junction cells when the cells are exposed to scattered light rather than to direct sunlight. Accordingly in some embodiments it may be desirable to use dual junction or single junction cells on the underside of the wings or the fuselage where the ratio of scattered light to direct sunlight is greater than for a top side of the wings.

The solar cells and any solar sheets into which the solar cells are incorporated must be flexible to conform to an underlying curved aerodynamic shape of a surface of UAV or of a UAV component onto which they will be mounted or into which they will be incorporated. Solar cells for a small UAV may need to be more flexible than solar cells for a large UAV due to the higher curvatures present in surfaces of small UAVs. Further flexible solar cells are more durable than similar non flexible or less flexible i.e. more brittle solar cells during installation and during use.

As noted above the solar cells and the solar sheets that include the solar cells should have a total mass that is relatively small compared to the mass of the UAV and should have a relatively low mass per unit area. This criterion is more difficult to meet for small UAVs than for large UAVs because the total mass of the small UAVs is relatively small.

Because additional mass tends to increase the power required to operate a UAV the power supplied by the solar cells must more than compensate for the increase in the UAV mass due to the presence of the solar cells or solar sheets into which the solar cells are incorporated to increase endurance of a UAV. Thus only solar cells having sufficient specific power power per unit mass would increase the endurance of a UAV.

For UAVs that is designed to incorporated solar cells and solar sheets using higher specific power solar cells or higher specific power solar sheets can increase the payload capacity of the UAV by increasing the available power for a given mass of solar cells or solar sheets incorporated into the UAV. Using higher specific power solar cells or higher specific power sheet may reduce the mass of solar cells or solar sheets incorporated into the UAV to generate a given power.

For a given solar cell the efficiency for one spectrum of light is generally different than the efficiency for another spectrum of light. Parameters which depend on the efficiency of the solar cell can be specified for different types of illumination. For example the specific power of solar cells or solar sheets can be specified under air mass coefficient 1.5 AM1.5 light which is typically used to characterize low altitude or terrestrial based solar cells. The specific power of solar cells or solar sheets can alternatively or additionally be specified under air mass coefficient 0 AM0 light which corresponds to high altitude conditions or light condition outside the atmosphere.

The commercially available solar cells include single junction polycrystalline silicon solar cells single junction single crystal silicon solar cells triple junction gallium arsenide solar cells on germanium triple junction solar cells on germanium and single junction copper indium gallium selenide CIGS solar cells. Both polycrystalline silicon solar cells and single crystal silicon solar cells are rigid solar cells i.e. not flexible solar cells . CIGS solar cells are grown on glass polymers and metal sheets. CIGS solar cells are flexible but they typically have a lower efficiency compared to silicon or GaAs based solar cells. The GaAs solar cells which are grown on the Ge substrate are both rigid and fragile however due to their high efficiency they are often used for space solar arrays. As shown in the inventors ELO IMM triple junction solar cells have higher specific power than the comparison commercially available solar cells. Further details regarding the ELO IMM solar cells are provided below in Examples 2 4 with respect to the discussion of the solar cells used in example solar sheet A and example solar sheet B.

In some embodiments a specific power of the plurality of solar cells is at least a threshold value e.g. at least 1000 W kg at least 1500 W kg at least 2000 W kg at least 2500 W kg for AM1.5 . The threshold value may alternatively or additionally be specified with respect to AM0 e.g. at least 1220 W kg at least 1870 W kg at least 2520 W kg or at least 3150 W kg under AM0 . In some embodiments the specific power of the solar cells falls within a specified range e.g. 1000 4500 W kg 1500 4500 W kg 2000 4500 W kg 2500 4500 W kg or 1500 6000 W kg under AM1.5 . The range may alternatively or additionally be specified with respect to AM0 light e.g. 1220 5680 W kg 1870 5680 W kg 2520 5680 W kg 3150 5680 W kg or at least 1870 7000 W kg under AM0 .

The specific power of a solar cell depends on the efficiency of the solar cell electrical energy produced divided by solar energy absorbed for a unit area of the solar cell and the mass per unit area of the solar cell i.e. the areal mass . Thus a solar cell with a relatively high specific power has a relatively high efficiency and or a relatively low areal mass. Solar cells free of a substrate e.g. solar cells produced using epitaxial lift off ELO may be particularly well suited for use on a UAV because they have a reduced mass per unit area and greater flexibility as compared to solar cells attached to an underlying substrate.

In general if the materials of a solar cell remain the same decreasing the thickness of the solar cell increases the flexibility of the solar cell. As noted above increased flexibility allows the solar cell to conform to an aerodynamic shape of a UAV surface or of the surface of a UAV component and increases the durability of the solar cell. In some embodiments each solar cell may have a thickness of less than a specified thickness e.g. less than 40 m less than 25 m less than 13 m or less than 5 m . In some embodiments each solar cell may have a thickness that falls in a specified range e.g. 2 40 m 2 30 m 2 15 m .

The areal mass of a solar cell is independent of the light spectrum used for power generation i.e. AM1.5 or AM0 . In some embodiments the areal mass of a solar cell may have a value that falls in a specified range e.g. 70 280 g m 165 250 g m 95 165 g m 70 95 g m . The areal mass of the solar cell can be reduced by reducing the mass of one or more components of the of solar cell without reducing the area of the solar cell. For example for solar cells that include a backing layer such as ELO IMM solar cells including a backing layer reducing the thickness of the backing layer of the solar cell can reduce the areal mass of the solar cell. In some embodiments the solar cell includes a metal backing layer. In some embodiments the metal backing layer may have a thickness of less than a specified thickness e.g. less than 30 m less than 15 m or less than 5 m .

Areal power of a solar cell is dependent on the efficiency of the solar cell. The areal power of a solar cell is greater under AM0 than under AM1.5. This is due to the fact that AM0 light inherently has more power to begin with because unlike the AM1.5 light the AM0 light has not been filtered by atmospheric conditions. In some embodiments the efficiency of the solar cells under AM0 varies by 2.5 from efficiency of the solar cells under AM1.5. For example if the solar cell has 25 efficiency under AM0 it has about 27.5 efficiency under AM1.5. In some embodiments the solar cell has 29 efficiency under AM1.5 which results in an areal power of 290 W munder AM1.5 and the solar has 26.5 efficiency under AM0 which results in an areal power of 360 W munder AM0. In another embodiment the efficiency of the solar cell can increase to 30 under AM0 resulting in an areal power of 410 W munder AM0 and as a result the efficiency of the solar cell can increase to 32.5 under AM1.5 resulting in an areal power of 325 W munder AM1.5.

In some embodiments the areal power of the solar cell may be in the range of 260 360 W munder AM1.5. In some embodiments the areal power of the solar cell may be in the range of 325 450 W munder AM0.

As noted above at least some of a plurality of solar cells may be incorporated into a flexible solar sheet. For example in some embodiments lightweight solar cells or strings of solar cells are disposed under a polymer film or between polymer films to form flexible solar sheets to aid in easier handling and installation and to provide greater protection of the solar cells. The flexible solar sheets conform to curved aerodynamic surfaces. In some embodiments the flexible solar sheets provide robust waterproof packaging. The flexible solar sheets may be applied to or incorporated into a surface of a UAV or of a component of a UAV.

Due to added mass of polymer materials in solar sheets a solar sheet of a plurality of solar cells has a lower specific power than the specific power of the solar cells themselves. Also if the solar sheet has a top layer the top layer may reduce the efficiency of the solar sheet e.g. by absorbing some of the incident light before it reaches the solar cell . In some embodiments a solar sheet has a specific power of at least a specified value e.g. at least 800 W kg or at least 1000 W kg under AM1. Additionally or alternatively the threshold for specific power may be described in terms of AM0 light e.g. at least 1020 W kg at least 1270 W kg under AM0 . In some embodiments a solar sheet has a specific power falling within a specified range e.g. 800 2350 W kg 1000 2350 W kg 1000 3500 W kg under AM1.5 . Additionally or alternatively the range for specific power may be described in terms of AM0 light e.g. 1020 3000 W kg 1270 3000 W kg 1020 4000 W kg under AM0 .

The areal mass of a solar sheet includes the encapsulating materials that form the solar sheet ready to be installed on a UAV. As noted above decreasing the mass of solar sheet increases the specific power of the solar sheet. The main factor for reducing the areal mass of the solar sheet is the reduction in thickness of the encapsulating materials by substituting lighter materials and eliminating redundant materials. In some embodiments the areal mass of the solar sheet may have a value that falls in a specified range e.g. 120 570 g m 120 300 g m or 120 160 g m .

The areal power of a solar sheet is dependent on the efficiency of the solar cells in the solar sheet as well as how tightly the solar cells are packed together in an array in a solar sheet. One way to increase the areal power of the solar sheet is by reducing or minimizing the spacing or the lateral gaps between adjacent solar cells in the solar sheet. In one embodiment the solar cells were spaced 2 mm or more from each other resulting in a sizable amount of area on the solar sheet that is was not active and did not contribute power to the whole solar sheet. The areal power of the solar sheet was measured to be 230 W munder AM1.5. In another embodiment the solar cells were packed with less than 1 mm spacing between adjacent cells. The areal power of the solar sheet was measured to be 260 W munder AM1.5 and 330 W munder AM0.

The overall increase in mass of the UAV due to installation of a kit or due to installation of solar sheets should be small relative to the total weight of the UAV. For example in some embodiments the installed kit or the installed solar sheets increase the weight of the UAV by less than 2 by less than 5 by less than 10 by less than 15 or by less than 20 . As noted above this requirement may be more challenging for small UAVs than for large UAVs.

Solar cells for the kit or solar cells used with embodiments employing solar sheets may be based on any number of suitable semiconductor materials like III V semiconductor materials e.g. GaAs based materials InP based materials etc. and Si based materials. The solar cells may be single junction solar cells multi junction solar cells e.g. double junction triple junction or a combination of single junction and multi junction solar cells. In general higher efficiencies can be obtained with multi junction solar cells than with single junction solar cells however multi junction solar cells are more complicated to make and can be more expensive. Examples of solar cells having relatively high efficiencies include triple junction inverted metamorphic IMM solar cells which may be produced using ELO or using methods that do not employ ELO. As a specific example triple junction IMM solar cells with an Al InGaP GaAs InGaAs grown inverted on GaAs by the inventors demonstrated efficiencies of greater than 29 under AM0.

Further information regarding III V semiconductor solar cells produced by ELO e.g. single junction multi junction and IMM solar cells and how to manufacture III V semiconductor ELO solar cells may be found in U.S. Pat. No. 7 994 419 to Pan et al. issued Aug. 9 2011 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Further information regarding InP based solar cells produced by ELO single junction multi junction and IMM and how to manufacture InP based ELO solar cells may be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 631 533 filed Sep. 28 2012 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

For embodiments that include a kit the kit includes a power conditioning system configured to operate the plurality of solar cells within a desired power range and configured to provide a specified voltage to an electrical system of the UAV. is a block diagram of a power conditioning circuit included in the power conditioning system in accordance with some embodiments. The power conditioning circuit includes a maximum power point tracker MPPT connected with the solar cells. The MPPT is configured to operate the solar cells within a desired power range. Any type of suitable MPPT component or circuit may be employed. The power conditioning circuit also includes a voltage converter that converts voltage from the MPPT into a voltage compatible with the electrical system of the UAV. Any suitable voltage conversion component or circuit may be employed e.g. a buck voltage converter DC to DC voltage reduction a boost voltage converter DC to DC voltage increase . In this embodiment the voltage converter is connected to an electrical system of the UAV through a switch switch A .

In some embodiments the power conditioning system may also be configured to charge an energy storage device e.g. a battery fuel cell of the UAV. are block diagrams representing a power conditioning system configured to charge an energy storage device of the UAV in accordance with some embodiments. Power conditioning system includes the power conditioning circuit and switch module A which connects with the UAV electrical system . As shown power conditioning system may also include a charging module and a switch module B that connect with an energy storage element e.g. a battery fuel cell of the UAV.

In the system is operating in a first mode in which the solar cells supply just a portion of the power being used by the UAV electrical system . In this mode through switch module B the energy storage device e.g. battery fuel cell supplements the power supplied by the solar cells for the UAV s electrical system . As indicated by arrows the charging module is bypassed in this mode. In the system is operating in a second mode in which the power supplied by the solar cells exceeds the power being used by the UAV electrical system and the excess generated power is directed through the charging module and switch module B to charge the energy storage e.g. battery fuel cell . A third mode of operation in which the power supplied by the solar cells exactly matches the power used by the electrical system is not depicted because generally speaking the third mode only occurs when shifting from the first mode to the second mode and vice versa . In some embodiments a UAV incorporating a secondary solar power system could be charged with exposure to sunlight before flight as well as during flight.

Electrical connections e.g. power bus lines wiring harness connecting the solar cells the power conditioning system the electrical system of the UAV and the energy storage device e.g. battery fuel cell of the UAV may be integrated into one or more components of the UAV e.g. the wings or the fuselage .

Some embodiments increase an endurance of a UAV by at least 50 by at least 80 by at least 100 by at least 150 or by at least 200 as compared to a similar UAV that is only battery powered or fuel cell powered. In some embodiments the kit is configured to supply when installed 40 99 of the total average power during use.

Some embodiments include methods of increasing an endurance of a battery powered or fuel cell powered UAV. For example in method of a component that includes a plurality of solar cells is provided for a UAV step . In some embodiments the component is at least a portion of a wing for a UAV. A power conditioning system configured to operate the plurality of solar cells within a desired power range and configured to provide power in the form of a voltage compatible with an electrical system of a UAV is provided step . The component is installed in a UAV step . In some embodiments the provided component replaces a previously produced component of a previously produced UAV. In some embodiments the component is installed in the UAV during manufacturing of the UAV. The power conditioning system is connected with an electrical system of the UAV step .

Method of depicts another method of increasing an endurance of a battery powered or fuel cell powered UAV. A plurality of solar cells is attached to a surface of a battery powered or fuel cell powered UAV step . The plurality of solar cells may be attached to a surface of a wing of the UAV. In some embodiments the solar cells are attached to a surface of a previously produced UAV. In some embodiments the solar cells are attached during initial production of the UAV. A power conditioning system configured to operate the plurality of solar cells within a desired power range and configured to provide power in the form of a voltage compatible with an electrical system of the UAV is provided step . The power conditioning system is connected with the electrical system of the UAV step .

Some embodiments include a solar sheet configured for installation on a component of a UAV. The solar cell may be included in a kit with a power conditioning system or may be provided without a power conditioning system. schematically depicts a side cross sectional view of a solar sheet for installation on a component of a UAV in accordance with an embodiment. is a detail of . The solar sheet includes a plurality of solar cells each having a top surface and a bottom surface . Solely for illustrative purposes the cross section of solar sheet is depicted with three solar cells. In some embodiments the solar sheet may have more than three columns or more than three rows of solar cells. In some embodiments the solar sheet may have less than three columns or less than three rows of solar cells. In interconnects between the solar cells are not shown for clarity. In some embodiments each of the solar cells has a specific power in a range of 1500 4500 W kg under AM1.5 or a specific power in a range of 1870 5680 W kg under AM0. In some embodiments each of the solar cells has a specific power in a range of 2000 4500 W kg under AM1.5 or a specific power in a range of 2520 5680 W kg under AM0. In some embodiments each of the solar cells has a specific power in a range of 2500 4500 W kg under AM1.5 or a specific power in a range of 3150 5680 W kg under AM0.

The solar sheet also includes a polymer layer to which the plurality of solar cells are attached. As depicted the polymer layer is attached to the top surface of the solar cells and may be described as a polymer top sheet. In some embodiments the polymer layer includes polytetrafluoroethylene e.g. TEFLON from DuPont. In some embodiments the thickness of the polymer layer is in a range of 15 microns to 30 microns.

In some embodiments the solar sheet includes a first adhesive layer . In some embodiments the first adhesive layer is configured to attach the solar sheet to a component of a UAV. In some embodiments the first adhesive layer is in contact with a bottom surface of each solar cell. The adhesive can be any suitable adhesive e.g. NT 1001 pressure sensitive adhesive PSA from Forza Power Technologies . In some embodiments the thickness of the first adhesive layer is in a range of 8 microns to 15 microns. In some embodiments the thickness of the first adhesive layer is in a range of 8 microns to 25 microns. In some embodiments the bottom surface of each of the solar cells is in contact with the first adhesive layer .

In some embodiments the solar sheet includes a second adhesive layer that attaches the plurality of solar cells to the polymer top sheet . In some embodiments the second adhesive layer is in contact with the top surface of each of the plurality of solar cells . The second adhesive layer can be any suitable adhesive e.g. a PSA such as NT 1001 . In some embodiments the thickness of the second adhesive layer is in a range of 8 microns to 15 microns. In some embodiments the thickness of the second adhesive layer is in a range of 8 microns to 25 microns.

Although solar sheet depicted in and does not include a bottom polymer layer in some other embodiments the solar sheet includes a bottom polymer layer which may be described at a polymer bottom sheet underlying the first adhesive layer see e.g. described below . In such embodiments the first adhesive layer does attaches the bottom polymer layer to the other elements of the solar sheet but is not configured attach the solar sheet to an underlying surface of a UAV. In some embodiments a bottom polymer layer includes polyvinyl fluoride PVF e.g. a TEDLAR PVF film from DuPont.

In some embodiments each of the plurality of solar cells in solar sheet has a specific power of at least a specified value e.g. at least 1000 W kg at least 1500 W kg at least 2000 W kg at least 2500 W kg under AM1.5 . The specific power of the solar cells in the solar sheet may additionally or alternatively be described in terms of AM0 light e.g. at least 1270 W kg at least 1870 W kg at least 2520 W kg at least 3150 W kg under AM0 . In some embodiments each of the plurality of solar cells has a specific power falling within a specified range e.g. 1000 4500 W kg 1500 4500 W kg 2000 4500 W kg 2500 4500 W kg 1500 6000 W kg under AM1.5 . The specific power of the solar cells in the solar sheet may additionally or alternatively be described in terms of AM0 e.g. 1270 5680 W kg 1870 5680 W kg 2520 5680 W kg 3150 5680 W kg 1870 7000 W kg under AM0 .

In some embodiments the solar sheet has a specific power of at least a specified value e.g. at least 400 W kg at least 800 W kg at least 1000 W kg under AM1.5 . In some embodiments the solar sheet has a specific power falling with within a specified range e.g. 400 2350 W kg 800 2350 W kg 1000 2350 W kg 1020 3000 W kg under AM1.5 . The specific power of the solar sheets may additionally or alternatively be described in terms of AM0 e.g. at least 510 W kg at least 1020 W kg at least 1270 W kg or in a range of 10 3000 W kg 1020 3000 W kg 1270 3000 W kg 1020 4000 W kg under AM0 .

As noted above the areal mass of the solar sheet includes the encapsulating materials that form the solar sheet ready to be installed on a UAV. Decreasing the mass of solar sheet increases the specific power of solar sheet. In some embodiments the areal mass of the solar sheet may have a value that falls in a specified range e.g. 70 280 g m 120 570 g m 120 300 g m . The areal power of a solar sheet is dependent on the efficiency of the solar cells as well as how tightly the solar cells are packed together in an array. In some embodiments the areal power of the solar sheet may have a value that falls in a specific range e.g. 260 330 W m 200 330 W munder AM1.5 or 325 450 W m 260 410 W munder AM0 .

In some embodiments the solar sheet is configured to be attached to a wing of a UAV. In some embodiments the solar sheet is a flexible solar sheet. In some embodiments the plurality of solar cells includes solar cells produced using an epitaxial lift off process.

In some embodiments each of the plurality of solar cells includes a metal backing layer. In some embodiments the thickness of the metal backing layer is less than 30 m less than 15 m or less than 5 m. In some embodiments the metal backing layer has a thickness in a range of 2 to 30 microns. In some embodiments the metal backing layer has a thickness in a range of 2 to 15 microns.

As noted above in order to increase the specific power of the a solar sheet the areal mass of the solar sheet can be decreased. For example in some embodiments portions of first adhesive layer of the solar sheet include cutouts to reduce the mass of the solar sheet. schematically illustrates a top view of a first adhesive layer that includes cutouts with each cutout corresponding to a position of a solar cell . Although only the first adhesive layer is shown for illustrative purposes the positions and areas of the corresponding solar cells in the solar sheet are indicated with dotted lines 94. In some embodiments the area of each cutout in the adhesive layer is smaller than the area of the corresponding solar cell as illustrated in . In some embodiments the area of each cutout in an adhesive layer is larger than the area of the corresponding solar cell as illustrated in . In some embodiments the area of each cutout in an adhesive layer is about the same as the area of the corresponding solar cell. In such embodiments a frame or window structure for the first adhesive layer provides sufficient adhesion to secure the solar sheet to an underlying component of the UAV while achieving a significant mass reduction.

In some embodiments the second adhesive layer includes a plurality of cutouts each corresponding to a position of a solar cell in the solar sheet. In some embodiment both the first adhesive layer and the second adhesive layer include a plurality of cutouts each corresponding to a position of a solar cell in the solar sheet.

The inventors installed an example kit including solar cells and a power conditioning circuit in a small battery powered or fuel cell powered UAV specifically a RAVEN UAV. The modified UAV with the installed kit demonstrated a significant increase in endurance as compared with an identical UAV without the kit. A plurality of solar cells in the form of four solar sheets was integrated into a wing component of a battery powered or fuel cell powered RAVEN UAV in the configuration shown in . The wing modified to include a wiring harness that would supply solar power to the UAV battery and vehicle. The wing assembly including the solar sheets and associated electronics was installed on a previously produced RAVEN UAV as shown in . Further details regarding the solar cells and the solar sheets employed are described below with respect to .

The solar cells used in the solar sheets installed on the UAVs were triple junction AlInGaP GaAs InGaAs inverted metamorphic IMM solar cell made using an ELO process. Specifically the cell included an AlInGaP top cell a GaAs middle cell and an InGaAs bottom cell overlaying a metal backing layer. As noted above additional details regarding manufacturing of the triple junction IMM solar cell may be found in U.S. Pat. No. 7 994 419 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. The solar cell thickness was less than 40 microns. The solar cells flexibly conformed to curved surfaces of the RAVEN model UAV. The triple junction IMM solar cell had a mass density of less than 250 g m.

The power per unit area of the solar cell was greater than 250 W mwith AM 1.5 illumination. The specific power of the solar cell was greater than 1 000 W kg.

The solar cells were interconnected to form an array. The triple junction IMM solar cells produced by ELO were laminated between polymer films to form flexible solar sheets. Specifically the solar array was packaged between two sheets of a polymer material such as TEFLON using sheets of transparent pressure sensitive adhesive PSA to attach the array to the polymer sheets. The top and bottom polymer sheets were transparent however in other embodiments the bottom polymer sheet need not be transparent. The antireflection coating of the cells was designed to give optimum performance with the polymer sheet and PSA. Electrical leads protruded from the solar sheets. The solar sheets were mounted on the top surface of the wing of the UAV using a sheet of PSA. The power conditioning circuitry PCC was installed in the UAV specifically in the wing. In other embodiments the PCC could be disposed at least partially in the fuselage. The PCC was connected to the solar sheets using the leads. Another set of leads routed the output of the PCC to the battery. The output of the PCC was connected in parallel with the output of the battery.

The flexible solar sheets had a demonstrated efficiency of at least 30 . The flexible solar sheets had an areal mass density of less than 250 g m and a power per unit area of greater than 250 W min AM 1.5 illumination. The flexible solar sheets had a specific power of greater than 430 W kg. The solar sheets were about 215 m thick.

In some embodiments the plurality of solar cells are integrated into a component of a UAV. For example solar sheets may be produced as described above and then the solar sheets incorporated into a wing as the wing is produced using a molding process.

Although some embodiments are described herein with respect to battery powered UAVs one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that this disclosure also applies UAVs incorporating other types of devices for storing electrical energy e.g. fuel cells . Thus kits and methods for increasing the endurance of electrically powered UAVs e.g. fuel cell powered UAVs battery powered UAVs fall within the scope of this disclosure.

While the present invention has been described with reference to illustrative embodiments thereof those skilled in the art will appreciate that various changes in form in detail may be made without parting from the intended scope of the present invention as defined in the appended claims.

The inventors made and tested an example solar sheet which is referred to as example solar sheet A. The solar cells used in example solar sheet A were flexible and triple junction AlInGaP GaAs InGaAs inverted metamorphic IMM solar cells made using an ELO process. Specifically the cell included an AlInGaP top cell a GaAs middle cell and a InGaAs bottom cell overlaying a metal backing layer. As noted above additional details regarding manufacturing of a triple junction IMM solar cell may be found in U.S. Pat. No. 7 994 419 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. The metal backing layer of each solar cell was about 25 microns thick. Example solar sheet A had an areal mass of 543 g m. The areal power of example solar sheet A was measured to be 230 W munder AM1.5 and 290 W munder AM0. The specific power of example solar sheet A was 440 W kg under AM1.5 and 540 W kg under AM0.

The layers of example solar sheet A generally corresponded to the layers of solar sheet described above with respect to except with the addition of a polymer bottom sheet underlying the first adhesive layer. shows the layers of example solar sheet A . Specifically example solar sheet A included a plurality of solar cells each having a top surface and a bottom surface. Example solar sheet A included a first adhesive layer in contact with the bottom surface of each solar cell . Example solar sheet A also included a second adhesive layer in contact with the top surface of each of the plurality of solar cells . Example solar sheet A included a first polymer layer which may be described as a polymer top sheet attached to the second adhesive layer and a second polymer layer which may be described as a polymer bottom sheet attached to the first adhesive layer . The solar sheet also included interconnects between the solar calls and the second adhesive layer .

Table 3 below lists the different layers of example solar sheet A and the materials used for each layer. In addition Table 3 shows the areal mass of each layer and contribution of the mass of each layer to the total mass. graphically illustrates how the mass of each layer contributes to the total mass of the solar sheet A.

Inventors made and tested an improved solar sheet identified as example solar sheet B herein. The layer structure of example solar sheet B corresponds to that shown in and described above. The solar cells used in example solar sheet B were flexible and triple junction AlInGaP GaAs InGaAs inverted metamorphic IMM solar cells made using an ELO process. Specifically the cell included an AlInGaP top cell a GaAs middle cell and an InGaAs bottom cell overlaying a metal backing layer.

The specific power of example solar sheet B was significantly increased as compared to that of example solar sheet A. In order to decrease the areal mass of the solar sheet the inventors reduced the thickness of the polymer layer top sheet omitted the polymer bottom sheet and reduced the thickness of metal backing layer in the solar cells. More specifically the inventors reduced the thickness of the top polymer layer i.e. the TEFLON sheet from about 50 microns in Example 2 to about 25 microns. The thicknesses of the first and second adhesive layers were reduced from 25 micron to 12 microns. In addition the thickness of the metal backing layer in the solar cells was reduced from 25 to 13 microns. The areal mass was about 240 g m. The areal power of solar sheet was measured to be about 260 W munder AM1.5 and 330 W munder AM0. The specific power of example solar sheet B was 1080 W kg under AM1.5 and 1380 W kg under AM0 was a significant increase over the specific power of example solar sheet A. As the thickness of the solar cells and solar sheets was reduced it became more challenging to handle the solar cells and components of solar sheets during the assembly of the solar sheets. For example due to the reduction in thickness various components of the solar sheet tended to curl easily increasing the difficulties in making the solar sheets.

Table 4 shows the different layers of example solar sheet B and the materials used for each layer. In addition Table 4 shows the areal mass of each layer and the contribution of the mass of each layer to the total mass. graphically illustrates how the mass of each layer contributes to the total mass of example solar sheet B.

Example solar sheet C includes a first adhesive layer including cutouts as shown in and described above. The structure of the layers of the solar sheet is shown in and described above. The solar cells in example solar sheet C are flexible and triple junction AlInGaP GaAs InGaAs inverted metamorphic IMM solar cells made using an ELO process.

Specifically the cell includes an AlInGaP top cell a GaAs middle cell and an InGaAs bottom cell overlaying a metal backing layer. Rather than a continuous layer of adhesive between the bottom surface of plurality of solar cells and the surface to which the solar sheet is to be adhered Example solar sheet C employs cutouts corresponding to the position of each solar cell to greatly decrease the amount of adhesive used and the total mass of the adhesive used for the second adhesive layer. In this example 90 of the adhesive material is removed. Further the thickness of metal backing layer is reduced to 5 microns for each solar cell. The areal power of the solar sheet is 290 W munder AM1.5 and 3700 W munder AM0. Example solar sheet C has increased specific power as compared to example solar sheet A and example solar sheet B. The specific power of the solar sheet is 1810 W kg under AM1.5 and 2310 W kg under AM0.

As may be recognized by those of ordinary skill in the pertinent art based on the teachings herein numerous changes and modifications may be made to the above described and other embodiments of the present disclosure without departing from the spirit of the invention as defined in the appended claims. Accordingly this detailed description of embodiments is to be taken in an illustrative as opposed to a limiting sense. Those skilled in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the described herein. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

