---

title: Ion-conducting membranes
abstract: An ion conducting polymeric composition mixture comprises a copolymer of styrene and vinylbenzyl-R. Ris selected from the group consisting of imidazoliums, pyridiniums, pyrazoliums, pyrrolidiniums, pyrroliums, pyrimidiums, piperidiniums, indoliums, and triaziniums. The composition contains 10%-90% by weight of vinylbenzyl-R. The composition can further comprise a polyolefin comprising substituted polyolefins, a polymer comprising cyclic amine groups, a polymer comprising at least one of a phenylene group and a phenyl group, a polyamide, and/or the reaction product of a constituent having two carbon-carbon double bonds. The composition can be in the form of a membrane. In a preferred embodiment, the membrane is a Helper Membrane that increases the faradaic efficiency of an electrochemical cell into which the membrane is incorporated, and also allows product formation at lower voltages than in cells without the Helper Membrane.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09580824&OS=09580824&RS=09580824
owner: Dioxide Materials, Inc.
number: 09580824
owner_city: Boca Raton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160404
---
The present application is continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 704 935 filed on May 5 2015 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 370 773. The 935 application was in turn a continuation in part of International Application No. PCT US2015 14328 filed on Feb. 3 2015 entitled Electrolyzer and Membranes . The 328 international application claimed priority benefits in turn from U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 62 066 823 filed on Oct. 21 2014.

The 935 application was also a continuation in part of International Application No. PCT US2015 26507 filed on Apr. 17 2015 entitled Electrolyzer and Membranes . The 507 international application also claimed priority benefits in turn from U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 62 066 823 filed Oct. 21 2014.

The 935 parent application the 823 provisional application and the 328 and 507 international applications are each hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 035 935 filed Sep. 24 2013 entitled Devices and Processes for Carbon Dioxide Conversion into Useful Fuels and Chemicals U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 830 338 filed Jul. 4 2010 entitled Novel Catalyst Mixtures International Application No. PCT 2011 030098 filed Mar. 25 2011 entitled Novel Catalyst Mixtures U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 174 365 filed Jun. 30 2011 entitled Novel Catalyst Mixtures International Patent Application No. PCT US2011 042809 filed Jul. 1 2011 entitled Novel Catalyst Mixtures U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 530 058 filed Jun. 21 2012 entitled Sensors for Carbon Dioxide and Other End Uses International Patent Application No. PCT US2012 043651 filed Jun. 22 2012 entitled Low Cost Carbon Dioxide Sensors and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 445 887 filed Apr. 12 2012 entitled Electrocatalysts for Carbon Dioxide Conversion .

This invention was made at least in part with U.S. government support under ARPA E Contract No. DE AR 0000345 and the Department of Energy under Contract No. DE SC0004453. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The field of the invention is electrochemistry. The devices systems and compositions described involve the electrochemical conversion of carbon dioxide into useful products the electrolysis of water electric power generation using fuel cells and electrochemical water purification.

There is a desire to decrease carbon dioxide CO emissions from industrial facilities and power plants as a way of reducing global warming and protecting the environment. One solution known as carbon sequestration involves the capture and storage of CO. Often the COis simply buried. It would be beneficial if instead of simply burying or storing the CO it could be converted into another product and put to a beneficial use.

Over the years a number of electrochemical processes have been suggested for the conversion of COinto useful products. Some of these processes and their related catalysts are discussed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 959 094 4 240 882 4 349 464 4 523 981 4 545 872 4 595 465 4 608 132 4 608 133 4 609 440 4 609 441 4 609 451 4 620 906 4 668 349 4 673 473 4 711 708 4 756 807 4 818 353 5 064 733 5 284 563 5 382 332 5 457 079 5 709 789 5 928 806 5 952 540 6 024 855 6 660 680 6 664 207 6 987 134 7 157 404 7 378 561 7 479 570 U.S. Patent App. Pub. No. 2008 0223727 Hori Y. Electrochemical CO2 reduction on metal electrodes 42 2008 pages 89 189 Gattrell M. et al. A review of the aqueous electrochemical reduction of CO2 to hydrocarbons at copper 594 2006 pages 1 19 and DuBois D. 7a Springer 2006 pages 202 225.

Processes utilizing electrochemical cells for chemical conversions have been known for years. Generally an electrochemical cell contains an anode a cathode and an electrolyte. Catalysts can be placed on the anode the cathode and or in the electrolyte to promote the desired chemical reactions. During operation reactants or a solution containing reactants are fed into the cell. Voltage is then applied between the anode and the cathode to promote the desired electrochemical reaction.

When an electrochemical cell is used as a COconversion system a reactant comprising CO carbonate or bicarbonate is fed into the cell. A voltage is applied to the cell and the COreacts to form new chemical compounds.

Several different cell designs have been used for COconversion. Most of the early work used liquid electrolytes between the anode and cathode while later scientific papers discussed using solid electrolytes.

U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 523 981 4 545 872 and 4 620 906 disclose the use of a solid polymer electrolyte membrane typically a cation exchange membrane wherein the anode and cathode are separated by the cation exchange membrane. More recent examples of this technique include U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 704 369 8 277 631 8 313 634 8 313 800 8 357 270 8 414 758 8 500 987 8 524 066 8 562 811 8 568 581 8 592 633 8 658 016 8 663 447 8 721 866 and 8 696 883. In these patents a liquid electrolyte is used in contact with a cathode.

Prakash G. et al. Electrochemical reduction of COover Sn Nafion coated electrode for a fuel cell like device 223 2013 pages 68 73 Prakash discusses the advantages of using a liquid free cathode in a cation exchange membrane style COelectrolyzer although it fails to teach a liquid free cathode. Instead a liquid solution is fed into the cathode in the experiments discussed in Prakash.

In a liquid free cathode electrolyzer no bulk liquids are in direct contact with the cathode during electrolysis however there can be a thin liquid film on or in the cathode. In addition the occasional wash or rehydration of the cathode with liquids may occur. Advantages of using a liquid free cathode included better COmass transfer and reduced parasitic resistance.

Dewolf D. et al. The electrochemical reduction of COto CHand CHat Cu Nafion electrodes solid polymer electrolyte structures 1 1988 pages 73 80 Dewolf discloses the use of a liquid free cathode in a cation exchange membrane electrolyzer an electrolyzer with a cation conducting polymer electrolyte membrane separating the anode from the cathode. Dewolf reports an observed maximum faradaic efficiency the fraction of the electrons applied to the cell that participate in reactions producing carbon containing products of 19 for COconversion into useful products and a small steady state current of 1 mA cm.

When the term mA cm2 is used in this disclosure the cmis measured as the area of the cathode gas diffusion layer that is covered by catalyst particles.

Various attempts have been made to develop a dry cell to be used in a COconversion system as indicated in Table 1 below. However a system in which the faradaic efficiency in a constant voltage experiment is greater than 32 has not been achieved. Furthermore the reported rates of COconversion current calculated as the product of the faradaic efficiency for COconversion and the current in the cell after 30 minutes of operation have been less than 5 mA cm which is too small for practical uses.

There are a few reports that claim higher conversion efficiencies. In particular Shironita S. et al. Feasibility investigation of methanol generation by CO2 reduction using Pt C based membrane electrode assembly for a reversible fuel cell 228 2013 pages 68 74 Shironita I and Shironita S. et al. Methanol generation by CO2 reduction at a Pt Ru C electrocatalyst using a membrane electrode assembly 240 2013 pages 404 410 Shironita II reported coulombic efficiencies up to 70 . However columbic efficiency is different from faradaic efficiency. A system can have a high coulombic efficiency for the production of species adsorbed on the electrocatalyst but may only observe a small faradaic efficiency 0.03 in Shironita I and Shironita II for products that leave the catalyst layer. This phenomenon is adequately explained in Rosen B. A. et al. In Situ Spectroscopic Examination of a Low Overpotential Pathway for Carbon Dioxide Conversion to Carbon Monoxide 116 2012 pages 15307 15312 which found that when COis reduced to adsorbed CO during COconversion by cyclic voltammetry most of the CO does not leave the electrolyzer.

Recently U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US2012 0171583 the 583 publication disclosed a cation exchange membrane design that could be run with a liquid free cathode. The application states that a system may provide selectivity of methanol as part of the organic product mixture with a 30 to 95 faradaic yield for carbon dioxide to methanol with the remainder evolving hydrogen. However the application does not provide data demonstrating a 30 to 95 faradaic yield. Furthermore in trying to repeat the experiment a steady state faradaic efficiency near zero during room temperature electrolysis was observed. These results are further laid out in Comparison Example 1 below.

In conclusion faradaic efficiencies of less than 30 are not practical. What is needed is a process that has a faradaic efficiency of at least 50 preferably over 80 . Furthermore a device with a low COconversion current is impractical. What is needed is a device with a COconversion current of at least 25 mA cm.

An ion conducting polymeric composition mixture comprises styrene and vinylbenzyl R. Ris selected from the group consisting of imidazoliums pyridiniums pyrazoliums pyrrolidiniums pyrroliums pyrimidiums piperidiniums indoliums triaziniums preferably imidazoliums and pyridiniums. The polymeric composition contains 35 90 by weight of vinylbenzyl R preferably 40 90 by weight of vinylbenzyl R and more preferably 50 80 by weight of vinylbenzyl R.

In a preferred embodiment of the polymeric composition R is an imidazolium. The imidazolium is preferably an alkylimidazolium more preferably methylimidazolium.

In a preferred embodiment of the polymeric composition R is a pyridinium. The pyridinium is preferably an alkylpyridinium more preferably pyridene.

In a preferred embodiment the polymer will have a molecular weight between 1000 and 10 000 000 atomic units A.U. preferably between 10 000 and 1 000 000 A.U. most preferably between 25 000 and 250 000 A.U.

In a preferred embodiment the polymeric composition further comprises at least one constituent selected from the group consisting of 

In a preferred embodiment the polyolefin is polyethylene the polymer comprising cyclic amine groups is polybenzimidazole the polymer comprising at least one of a phenylene group and a phenyl groups is polyphenylene oxide and the constituent having two carbon carbon double bonds is divinyl benzene or butadiene. The preferred polyamide constituent is polybenzimidazole.

In a preferred embodiment the polymeric composition is in the form of a membrane. The membrane has a preferred thickness of 10 300 micrometers.

If Selectivity is greater than 50 and the CO2 conversion current at 3.0 V is 20 mA cm2 or more the membrane containing the material is a Helper Membrane for which COconversion current Total cell current Selectivity 

It is understood that the process is not limited to the particular methodology protocols and reagents described herein as these can vary as persons familiar with the technology involved here will recognize. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is used for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the process. It also is to be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include the plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example a reference to a linker is a reference to one or more linkers and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art. Similarly the phrase and or is used to indicate one or both stated cases can occur for example A and or B includes A and B and A or B .

Unless defined otherwise technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which the process pertains. The embodiments of the process and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments and or illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. It should be noted that the features illustrated in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale and features of one embodiment can be employed with other embodiments as the skilled artisan would recognize even if not explicitly stated herein.

Any numerical value ranges recited herein include all values from the lower value to the upper value in increments of one unit provided that there is a separation of at least two units between any lower value and any higher value. As an example if it is stated that the concentration of a component or value of a process variable such as for example size angle size pressure time and the like is for example from 1 to 98 specifically from 20 to 80 more specifically from 30 to 70 it is intended that values such as 15 to 85 22 to 68 43 to 51 30 to 32 and the like are expressly enumerated in this specification. For values which are less than one one unit is considered to be 0.0001 0.001 0.01 or 0.1 as appropriate. These are only examples of what is specifically intended and all possible combinations of numerical values between the lowest value and the highest value are to be treated in a similar manner.

Moreover provided immediately below is a Definitions section where certain terms related to the process are defined specifically. Particular methods devices and materials are described although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the process.

The term electrochemical conversion of CO as used here refers to any electrochemical process where carbon dioxide carbonate or bicarbonate is converted into another chemical substance in any step of the process.

The term polymer electrolyte membrane refers to both cation exchange membranes which generally comprise polymers having multiple covalently attached negatively charged groups and anion exchange membranes which generally comprise polymers having multiple covalently attached positively charged groups. Typical cation exchange membranes include proton conducting membranes such as the perfluorosulfonic acid polymer available under the trade designation NAFION from E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company DuPont of Wilmington Del.

The term anion exchange membrane electrolyzer as used here refers to an electrolyzer with an anion conducting polymer electrolyte membrane separating the anode from the cathode.

The term liquid free cathode refers to an electrolyzer where there are no bulk liquids in direct contact with the cathode during electrolysis. There can be a thin liquid film on or in the cathode however and occasional wash or rehydration of the cathode with liquids could occur.

The term faradaic efficiency as used here refers to the fraction of the electrons applied to the cell that participate in reactions producing carbon containing products.

The term Hydrogen Evolution Reaction also called HER as used here refers to the electrochemical reaction 2H 2e H.

The term Millipore water is water that is produced by a Millipore filtration system with a resistivity of at least 18.2 megaohm cm.

The term imidazolium as used here refers to a positively charged ligand containing an imidazole group. This includes a bare imidazole or a substituted imidazole. Ligands of the form 

The term pyridinium as used here refers to a positively charged ligand containing a pyridine group. This includes a bare pyridine or a substituted pyridine. Ligands of the form

The term phosphonium as used here refers to a positively charged ligand containing phosphorous. This includes substituted phosphorous. Ligands of the form P RRRR where R Rare each independently selected from hydrogen halides linear alkyls branched alkyls cyclic alkyls heteroalkyls aryls heteroaryls alkylaryls heteroalkylaryls and polymers thereof such as the vinyl benzyl copolymers described herein are specifically included.

The term positively charged cyclic amine as used here refers to a positively charged ligand containing a cyclic amine. This specifically includes imidazoliums pyridiniums pyrazoliums pyrrolidiniums pyrroliums pyrimidiums piperidiniums indoliums triaziniums and polymers thereof such as the vinyl benzyl copolymers described herein are specifically included.

As shown in anode flow field plate has at least one open faced channel engraved milled or molded in its major surface facing membrane . Similarly cathode flow field plate has at least one open faced channel engraved milled or molded in its major surface facing membrane . When assembled against the cooperating surfaces of electrodes and channels and form the reactant flow field passages for the anode reactant fuel stream and cathode reactant oxidant stream respectively.

Turning to a fuel cell hardware assembly employs a membrane electrode assembly having integral reactant fluid flow channels. Fuel cell hardware assembly includes membrane electrode assembly interposed between lightweight separator layers and which are substantially impermeable to the flow of reactant fluid therethrough. Membrane electrode assembly consists of a polymer electrolyte ion exchange membrane interposed between two electrodes namely anode and cathode . Anode and cathode are formed of porous electrically conductive sheet material preferably carbon fiber paper. Electrodes and have a thin layer of catalyst material disposed on their major surfaces at the interface with membrane to render them electrochemically active.

As shown in anode has at least one open faced channel formed in its surface facing away from membrane . Similarly cathode has at least one open faced channel formed in its surface facing away from membrane . When assembled against the cooperating surfaces of separator layers and channels and form the reactant flow field passages for the fuel and oxidant streams respectively.

During operation reactants or a solution containing reactants is fed into the cell. Then a voltage is applied between the anode and the cathode to promote an electrochemical reaction.

Alternately when the device is used as a fuel cell reactants or a solution containing reactants is fed into the fuel cell hardware assembly and a voltage spontaneously develops between the anode and cathode. This voltage can produce a current through an external circuit connecting the anode and cathode.

When an electrochemical cell is used as a COconversion system a reactant comprising CO carbonate or bicarbonate is fed into the cell. A voltage is applied to the cell and the COreacts to form new chemical compounds.

The present electrochemical device for electrochemical conversion of CO water carbonate and or bicarbonate into another chemical substance has an anode a cathode and a Helper Membrane.

In some embodiments there are no or substantially no bulk liquids in contact with the cathode during cell operation and the faradaic efficiency for COconversion is at least 33 more preferably at least 50 or most preferably at least 80 .

The device can also include at least one Catalytically Active Element. Catalytically Active Element as used here refers to a chemical element that can serve as a catalyst for the electrochemical conversion of COor another species of interest in a desired reaction. In particular the device can include one or more of the following Catalytically Active Elements V Cr Mn Fe Co Ni Cu Sn Zr Nb Mo Ru Rh Pd Ag Cd Hf Ta W Re Ir Pt Au Hg Al Si In Tl Pb Bi Sb Te U Sm Tb La Ce and Nd. Research has established that Pt Pd Au Ag Cu Ni Fe Sn Bi Co In Ru and Rh work well with Au Ag Cu Sn Sb Bi and In working especially well. The products of the reaction can include among other things CO HCO HCO HCO HCO CHOH CH CH CHCHOH CHCOO CHCOOH CH COOH COO HC CHCOOH CFCOOH other organic acids carbonates di phenyl carbonate and polycarbonates.

Without further elaboration it is believed that persons familiar with the technology involved here using the preceding description can utilize the invention to the fullest extent. The following examples are illustrative only and are not meant to be an exhaustive list of all possible embodiments applications or modifications of the invention.

Specific Example 1 illustrates a procedure to create an electrolyzer with a Helper Membrane. The embodiment of Specific Example 1 demonstrates improved performance over earlier electrochemical cells used for COconversion.

Measurements were conducted in an electrolysis cell with an anode cathode and anion conducting polymer electrolyte membrane held in Fuel Cell Technologies 5 cmfuel cell hardware assembly with serpentine flow fields.

The cathode in Specific Example 1 was prepared as follows. Silver ink was made by mixing 30 mg of silver nanoparticles 20 40 nm 45509 Alfa Aesar Ward Hill Mass. with 0.1 ml deionized water 18.2 Mohm EMD Millipore Billerica Mass. and 0.2 ml isopropanol 3032 16 Macron Fine Chemicals Avantor Performance Materials Center Valley Pa. . The mixture was then sonicated for 1 minute. The silver ink was then hand painted onto a gas diffusion layer Sigracet 35 BC CDL Ion Power Inc. New Castle Del. covering an area of 2.5 cm 2.5 cm.

The anode in Specific Example 1 was prepared as follows. RuOink was made by mixing 15 mg of RuO 11804 Alfa Aesar with 0.2 ml deionized water 18.2 Mohm Millipore 0.2 ml isopropanol 3032 16 Macron and 0.1 ml of 5 Nafion solution 1100EW DuPont Wilmington Del. . The RuOink was then hand painted onto a gas diffusion layer Sigracet 35 BC GDL Ion Power Inc. covering an area of 2.5 cm 2.5 cm.

The PSMMIM membrane was prepared following the synthetic route in . PSMMIM refers to a co polymer of polystyrene and poly 1 p vinylbenzyl 3 methyl imidazolium 

The first inhibitor free styrene was prepared by washing styrene Sigma Aldrich Saint Louis Mo. with two equal volumes of 7.5 aqueous sodium hydroxide. The inhibitor free styrene was then washed with four equal volumes of water to make sure it was neutralized and was then dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. Inhibitor TBC in 4 vinylbenzyl chloride 4 VBC was removed by extraction with 0.5 potassium hydroxide solution until a colorless extract was obtained. This extract was washed with water until neutral and then was dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate.

Poly 4 vinylbenzyl chloride co styrene was then synthesized by heating a solution of inhibitor free styrene Sigma Aldrich 10.0581 g 96.57 mmol and 4 vinylbenzyl chloride Sigma Aldrich 6.2323 g 40.84 mmol in chlorobenzene Sigma Aldrich 15 ml at 60 65 C. in an oil bath for 12 18 hours under argon gas with AIBN Azoisobutyronitrile Sigma Aldrich 0.1613 g 0.99 wt based on the total monomers weight as initiator. The copolymer was precipitated in CHOH THF methanol tetrahydrofuran and dried under vacuum.

Polystyrene methyl methylimidazolium chloride PSMMIM was synthesized by adding 1 methylimidazole Sigma Aldrich 2.8650 g 0.0349 mol which is an alkylimidazolium to the solution of the poly 4 VBC co St 5.0034 g in anhydrous N N Dimethylformamide DMF Sigma Aldrich 30 mL . The mixture was then stirred at room temperature for 0.5 1 hour and then heated at 110 120 C. for 50.3 hours to form a PSMMIM solution.

The molecular weight of the sample was measured. Different runs gave molecular weights between 47 000 and 51 000 atomic units A.U. . In one case a polymer with a molecular weight of 230 000 A.U. was produced. It is anticipated that membranes with a molecular weight below 1000 A.U. will be too soft to form useful membranes. Membranes with molecular weights above 10 000 000 will be too difficult to cast via solution membranes. Preferred polymers have a molecular weight between 10 000 and 1 000 000 A.U. most preferred between 40 000 and 250 000 A.U.

 4 VBC co St or poly 4 vinylbenzyl chloride co styrene as used here refers to a co polymer of styrene and 4 vinylbenzyl chloride 

The membranes were prepared by casting the PSMMIM solution prepared above directly onto a flat glass surface. The thickness of the solution on the glass was controlled by a film applicator MTI Corporation Richmond Calif. with an adjustable doctor blade. The membranes were then dried in a vacuum oven at 80 C. for 300 minutes and then 120 C. for 200 minutes. Chloride ion in the membranes was removed by soaking the membranes in 1 M KOH solution for 24 hours.

The resultant membrane was tested and determined to meet the classification as a Helper Membrane according to the test set forth in the Summary of the Invention section of the present application. The membrane was sandwiched between the anode and the cathode with the metal layers on the anode and cathode facing the membrane and the whole assembly was mounted in a Fuel Cell Technologies 5 cmfuel cell hardware assembly with serpentine flow fields.

COhumidified at 50 C. was fed into the cathode at a rate of 5 sccm the cell was operated at atmospheric pressure with the anode inlet and outlet left open to the atmosphere 3.0 V were applied to the cell and the cathode output composition was analyzed with an Agilent 6890 gas chromatograph GC TCD Agilent Technologies Santa Clara Calif. equipped with a Carboxen 1010 PLOT GC column 30 m 320 um Sigma Aldrich . No heating was applied to the cell.

Initially the cell produced 100 mA cm but the current dropped and held steady at 80 mA cmafter a few minutes of operation. GC analysis after 30 minutes of operation showed that the output of the cell contained CO CO and a small amount of hydrogen. Selectivity was calculated at 94 where 

In a second trial water was fed into the anode of the cell to keep the PSMMIM hydrated. In that case the membrane was able to maintain over 90 selectivity for 200 hours.

During both runs the leakage current was checked and was negligible. Furthermore there were no other products on the cathode. As such the faradaic efficiency was equal to the Selectivity.

Comparative Example 1 measured the steady state current and faradaic efficiency of an electrolyzer constructed following the teachings of the 583 publication which claimed to disclose a system that may provide selectivity of methanol as part of the organic product mixture with a 30 to 95 faradaic yield for carbon dioxide to methanol with the remainder evolving hydrogen. However the 583 publication fails to provide data demonstrating a 30 to 95 faradaic yield when the cathode is liquid free. In Comparative Example 1 a cell was built following the teachings in the 583 publication and the faradaic efficiency was measured at room temperature with a liquid free cathode.

Following the teachings in the 583 publication the cathode was prepared as follows. First a platinum nanoparticle ink was made by mixing 10 mg of platinum black 12755 Alfa Aesar with 0.2 ml deionized water 18.2 Mohm Millipore and 0.2 ml isopropanol 3032 16 Macron . The mixture was then sonicated for 1 minute. The platinum nanoparticle ink was then hand painted onto a gas diffusion layer Sigracet 35 BC GDL Ion Power covering an area of 2.5 cm 2.5 cm.

The platinum catalyst layer was then coated with a thin layer of poly 4 vinylpyridine P4VP average MW 60 000 Sigma Aldrich by brushing 0.2 ml of 1 P4VP ethanol solution. Then the platinum catalyst layer was immersed in 1 M HSOsolution A300C 212 Fisher Chemical Pittsburgh Pa. to protonate pyridine.

The anode was prepared as in Specific Example 1. Specifically RuOink was made by mixing 15 mg of RuO 11804 Alfa Aesar with 0.2 ml deionized water 18.2 Mohm Millipore 0.2 ml isopropanol 3032 16 Macron and 0.1 ml of 5 Nafion solution 1100EW DuPont . The RuOink was then hand painted onto a gas diffusion layer Sigracet 35 BC GDL Ion Power covering an area of 2.5 cm 2.5 cm.

Next a proton exchange membrane Nafion 117 DuPont was sandwiched between the anode and cathode with the metal coatings facing the membrane and the whole assembly was mounted in Fuel Cell Technologies 5 cmfuel cell hardware assembly with serpentine flow fields.

The cell was tested using the procedures in Specific Example 1. Specifically COhumidified at 50 C. was fed into the cathode at a rate of 5 sccm the cell was at room temperature and atmospheric pressure the anode inlet and outlet were left open to the atmosphere 3.0 V were applied to the cell and the cathode output composition was analyzed with an Agilent 6890 gas chromatograph GC TCD equipped with a Carboxen 1010 PLOT GC column 30 m 320 um . No heating was applied to the cell.

The total cell current was found to be 80 mA cm but no methanol or other COreduction products could be detected. Instead hydrogen was the only product detected by GC. There was no evidence for methanol condensation in the tubing. Based on the measurements the selectivity and faradaic efficiency of a cell constructed following the teachings of the 583 publication with a liquid free cathode is near zero. The COcurrent is also near zero at room temperature.

Note that the GC results show that the methanol concentration in the gas phase is negligible and methanol cannot condense at room temperature until the partial pressure of methanol in the gas phase reaches about 13 kPa where 13 kPa is the vapor pressure of methanol at room temperature.

SHIRONITA I also was unable to detect COreduction products in a similar experiment but was able to detect products when heating the cell to 90 C. However in any case the faradaic efficiency was still low.

Table 1 lists the observed faradaic efficiencies and COconversion currents at room temperature for various membranes and catalyst s combinations for various cells disclosed in prior research as well as the results from Specific Example 1 and Comparative Example 1. The faradaic efficiencies were calculated after 1 hour in a steady state constant voltage experiment. In some cases higher efficiencies are reported by cycling the potential. As can be seen the use of the Helper Membrane raised the faradaic efficiency by roughly a factor of 3 and the product current by a factor of 16.

Comparative Example 2 was conducted to determine whether Nafion sulfonated Poly Ether Ether Ketone SPEEK polyvinyl alcohol PVA polyethylenimine PEI CMI 7000 AMI 7001 phosphoric acid doped PBI or Neosepta membranes act as Helper Membranes when pretreated as described in the earlier literature as described in Table 1.

Nafion 117 was purchased from Ion Power Technologies Inc. of Wilmington Del. It was boiled in 5 HOfor 1 hour and it was then boiled in Millipore water for 1 hour. The Nafion 117 was then boiled in 0.5 M sulfuric acid for an hour and then boiled again in Millipore water for 1 hour.

Neosepta BP 1E was purchased from Ameridia Division of Eurodia Industrie S.A. in Somerset N.J. It was pretreated by dipping it in water as recommended by the manufacturer. It was then tested to determine whether it met the classification as a Helper Membrane according to the test set forth in the Summary of the Invention section of the present application. The selectivity was 34 below the 50 require to be classified as a Helper Membrane.

CMI 7000 and AMI 7001 were purchased from Membranes International Inc. of Ringwood N.J. An alkali doped AMI 7001 was prepared following the procedure outlined in Aeshala L. et al. Effect of cationic and anionic solid polymer electrolyte on direct electrochemical reduction of gaseous COto fuel 3 2013 pages 49 55 AESHALA I . First the AMI 7001 was soaked in a 0.5 molar potassium hydroxide KOH solution overnight to create basic sites in the membrane. Excess KOH was then washed off by soaking the membrane in water for 6 hours. The membrane was then tested to determine whether it met the classification as a Helper Membrane according to the test set forth in the Summary of the Invention section of the present application. Both the selectivity 25 and product current 2.5 mA cm were low as reported in Table 2 below indicating that an alkali doped AMI 7001 membrane as pretreated according to AESHALA I is not a Helper Membrane.

Similarly the acid doped CMI 7000 was pretreated following the procedure outlined in AESHALA I. First the membrane was soaked in 0.5 M HSOovernight then it was soaked in water for 6 hours. The membrane was then tested to determine whether it met the classification as a Helper Membrane according to the test set forth in the Summary of the Invention section of the present application. GC analysis showed only traces of CO formation indicating that this membrane is not a Helper Membrane.

Alkali doped PVA was synthesized following the procedure outlined in Aeshala L. et al. Effect of solid polymer electrolyte on electrochemical reduction of CO94 2012 pages 131 137 AESHALA II . PVA stock 363081 was purchased from Sigma Aldrich Corporation. 9 grams of PVA were dissolved in 90 ml of water at 90 C. The solution was cast onto a petri dish. After the cast films had dried they were immersed in glutaraldehyde 10 in acetone solutions mixed with small quantities of catalytic HCl for one hour to encourage cross linking. The films were then rinsed several times with Millipore water activated by immersion in 0.5 M NaOH for 24 hours and then rinsed before use. The membrane was then tested to determine whether it met the classification as a Helper Membrane according to the test set forth in the Summary of the Invention section of the present application. While the selectivity 52 was relatively high the product current 7.5 mA cm was low as reported in Table 2 below indicating that an alkali doped PVA membrane as pretreated according to AESHALA II is not a Helper Membrane.

An alkali doped PVA PEI composite was synthesized following the procedure outlined in Aeshala L. et al. Electrochemical conversion of COto fuels tuning of the reaction zone using suitable functional groups in a solid polymer electrolyte 16 2014 pages 17588 17594 AESHALA III . A PEI item number 408727 was purchased from Sigma Aldrich Corporation. 6 grams of PVA and 3 grams of PEI were dissolved in 90 ml of water at 90 C. The solution was cast onto a petri dish. After the cast films had dried they were immersed in glutaraldehyde 10 in acetone solutions mixed with small quantities of catalytic HCl for one hour to encourage cross linking. The films were then rinsed several times with Millipore water. They were then activated by immersion in 0.5 M NaOH for 24 hours and then rinsed before use.

The membrane was then tested to determine whether it met the classification as a Helper Membrane according to the test set forth in the Summary of the Invention section of the present application. Both the selectivity 16 and the product current 1.6 mA cm were low as reported in Table 2 below indicating that an alkali doped PEI PVA membrane as pretreated according to AESHALA III is not a Helper Membrane.

SPEEK was prepared following the procedure in the procedure outlined in AESHALA II. A PEEK film was purchased from CS Hyde Company Lake Villa Ill. . 1 g of the PEEK was exposed to 50 ml of concentrated sulfuric acid for 50 hours under constant agitation. All of the PEEK had dissolved at the end of the 50 hours and had converted to SPEEK. 200 ml of Millipore water was placed in an ice bath and allowed to cool to near 0 C. The SPEEK solution was then slowly poured into the Millipore water under constant agitation. The SPEEK precipitated out of the water solution was filtered and was then washed multiple times to remove excess sulfuric acid. The SPEEK was then dried at 100 C. for 8 hours in a vacuum oven. Next the SPEEK was dissolved in dimethylacetamide. The resultant solution was cast on a glass slide. The membrane was then tested to determine whether it met the classification as a Helper Membrane according to the test set forth in the Summary of the Invention section of the present application. Both the selectivity 2.5 and the product current 0.13 mA cm were low as reported in Table 2 below indicating that a SPEEK membrane as pretreated according to AESHALA II is not a Helper Membrane.

Phosphoric Acid doped PBI was prepared as follows. PBI was purchased from PBI Performance Products Inc. Rock Hill S.C. and acid doped by immersing it in 0.5 M HPOfor 24 hours. It was then soaked in water for 1 hour to remove excess acid. The membrane was then tested to determine whether it met the classification as a Helper Membrane according to the test set forth in the Summary of the Invention section of the present application. Again the current and selectivity were low.

Notice that Nafion SPEEK alkali doped PVA alkali doped PVA PEI Acid doped CMI 7000 Alkali doped AMI 7001 Neosepta and P PBI are not Helper Membranes.

The object of this example was to determine whether changes in the membrane doping could activate a membrane for COconversion. AMI 7001 and CMI 7000 were chosen as test examples since they have the same polystyrene backbone as in PSMMIM and PSDMIM but different amine groups so they might be able to be activated.

The AMI 7001 was pretreated by soaking the membrane in a 1 M NaCl solution for one hour followed by soaking in water for about 3 hours.

The selectivity rose to 70 . The current density was still low 3.5 mA cm . So this membrane is still not a Helper Membrane but its performance is much better.

The CMI 7000 was pretreated using the same procedure. Again the selectivity rose to 72 . The current density was still low 15 mA cm .

Still it is likely that the current could be raised if thinner membranes were made with the same bulk composition as AMI 7001 and CMI 7000 and then the membranes were doped with NaCl. Such a membrane could be a Helper Membrane.

Preparation of PSDMIM Poly 4 vinylbenzyl chloride co styrene was prepared as in Specific Example 2. 1 2 dimethylimiazole Sigma Aldrich 2.8455 g 0.0296 mol is added to the solution of the poly 4 VBC co St 5.0907 g in anhydrous N N Dimethylformamide DMF Sigma Aldrich 30 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 0.5 1 hour and then heated at 110 120 C. for 66.92 hours. PSDMIM was obtained as a yellowish solid after purification by precipitation into diethyl ether.

A PSDMIM membrane was formed as in Specific Example 2. Then the membrane was tested as in Specific Example 1. The results are given in Table 2 below. PSDMIM refers to a co polymer of styrene and 1 p vinylbenzyl 2 3 dimethyl imidazolium 

The objective of Specific Example 4 is to provide an example of a Helper Membrane with a pyridinium group.

Preparation of PSMP poly 4 vinylbenzyl chloride co styrene was prepared as in Specific Example 2. Pyridine Sigma Aldrich is added to the solution of the poly 4 VBC co St 5.0907 g in anhydrous N N Dimethylformamide DMF Sigma Aldrich 30 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 0.5 1 hour and then heated at 110 120 C. for 66.92 hours. PSMP was obtained as a brownish solid after purification by precipitation into diethyl ether. PSMP refers to a material that contains a co polymer of styrene and 1 p vinylbenzyl pyridinium.

A PSMP membrane was formed as in Specific Example 2. The resultant membrane did not have a uniform thickness but the membrane was still suitable to test. The film was tested as in Specific Example 1 and qualified as a Helper Membrane.

Table 2 shows the faradaic efficacies and currents observed for the Helper Membranes disclosed in this application along with those of the membranes discussed in earlier studies. In all cases the membranes were tested and determined to meet the classification as a Helper Membrane according to the test set forth in the Summary of the Invention section of the present application.

The objective of this example was to examine the effects of the fraction of the amine in the polymer on the performance. The Helper Membrane was made from methylimidazolium poly 4 vinylbenzylchloride co styrene chloride PSMIM Cl polymer solution of various compositions.

PSMIM Cl solution in anhydrous dimethylformamide was prepared by a two step reaction process 1 Poly 4 VBC co St synthesis from the reaction of styrene St with 4 vinylbenzyl chloride 4 VBC in chlorobenzene under argon gas S. J. Smith Urbana Ill. protection with 2 2 Azobis 2 methylpropionitrile AIBN as initiator. 2 Poly 4 VBC co St was reacted with 1 methylimidazole at 50 120 C. for more than 48 hours to obtained PSMIM Cl polymer solution.

Synthesis of poly 4 vinylbenzyl chloride co styrene A solution of inhibitor free styrene Sigma Aldrich 10.0581 g 96.57 mmol and 4 vinylbenzyl chloride Sigma Aldrich 6.2323 g 40.84 mmol in chlorobenzene Sigma Aldrich 15 ml was heated at 60 65 C. in an oil bath for 12 18 hours under argon gas with AIBN Sigma Aldrich 0.1613 g 0.99 wt based on the total monomers weight as initiator. The copolymer was precipitated in CHOH THF and dried under vacuum. VBC content in the copolymer was 38.26 wt .

Synthesis of methylimidazolium poly 4 VBC co St chloride MIM poly 4 VBC co St Cl 1 methylimiazole Sigma Aldrich 2.8650 g 0.0349 mol was added to the solution of the poly 4 VBC co St 5.0034 g in anhydrous N N Dimethylformamide DMF Sigma Aldrich 30 ml . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 0.5 1 hour and then heated at 110 120 C. for 50.3 hours.

Membranes preparation The membrane preparation steps were 1 Cast PSMIM Cl polymer solution prepared above onto a flat glass 8 cm 10 cm with a 0.1 to 1 ml pipette. 2 Put the glass plate with membranes in an oven MTI Corporation the membranes were then dried at 80 C. for 4 hours and then 120 C. for another 2 hours under the protection of nitrogen. 3 After the oven temperature cooled down to room temperature the membranes were taken out and soaked in a 1 M KOH Fisher Scientific Fair Lawn N.J. bath. Membranes were peeled off from the substrates and soaked in 1 M KOH solution for at least 24 hours for complete anion exchange Cl OH before testing.

The synthesis procedure for the PSMIM Cl polymer solution with VBC content of 38.26 wt and the membrane fabrication procedure were used for the synthesis of PSMIM Cl with VBC compositions of 46 wt and 59 wt respectively. The testing results of these membranes are summarized in Table 3 below. Membrane current density increases with increasing functional group VBC content in the copolymer while mechanical strength of membranes get worse. The membrane with 59 wt VBC is very soft and its mechanical strength is very weak.

Fitting the data to an exponential curve and extrapolating to lower VBC content shows that the current will be above 20 mA cmwhenever there is at least 15 VBC in the polymer. This corresponds to a styrene to p vinylbenzyl 3 methyl imidazolium ratio of no more than 7.

The objective of this example is to provide examples of reinforced helper membranes. In particular Helper Membranes will be provided made from blends of methylimidazolium poly 4 vinylbenzylchloride co styrene chloride PSMIM Cl and polymer matrix such as polybenzimidazole PBI poly 2 6 dimethyl 1 2 phenylene oxide PPO Nylon 6 6 or polyethylene PE .

PSMIM Cl solution in anhydrous dimethylformamide was prepared by a two step reaction process 1 poly 4 VBC co St was synthesized from the reaction of styrene St with 4 vinylbenzyl chloride 4 VBC in chlorobenzene under argon gas S. J. Smith protection with 2 2 Azobis 2 methylpropionitrile AIBN as initiator 2 poly 4 VBC co St was reacted with imidazole at 50 120 C. for more than 48 hours to obtained PSMIM Cl solution.

PBI polymer solution was prepared by diluting 27.5264 g of about 26.6 wt PBI solution PBI Performance Products. Inc. Charlotte N.C. with anhydrous dimethylacetamide DMAc Sigma Aldrich to 78.3578 g. The concentration of the resulting PBI solution was 9.34 wt .

Nylon 6 6 solution was prepared by adding 4.6065 g of Nylon 6 6 Sigma Aldrich into 24.3218 g of about 97 formic acid Acros Organics Geel Belgium and 2.5625 g anhydrous methanol Avantor Performance Materials Inc. mixture. Nylon pellets were allowed to dissolve for several hours at room temperature then in a Branson 2510 sonication bath Sonics Online Richmond Va. until a homogeneous white emulsion was obtained. The concentration of the resulting Nylon solution is 14.83 wt .

10.2 wt PPO solution was prepared by dissolving 0.5099 g of PPO Sigma Aldrich in 5 mL chlorobenzene Fisher Scientific .

15 wt PE solution was prepared by dissolving 4.5 g of PE Sigma Aldrich in 30 ml xylenes Fisher Scientific . PE completely dissolved in xylenes at 70 80 C.

Preparation procedure of Helper Membrane 4 from blends of PSMIM Cl and PBI 1 Add 0.1 ml PBI polymer solution into 4 ml PSMIM Cl solution VBC content in the copolymer was 46 wt and light brown precipitate was immediately formed. The solid in the polymer solution was dispersed by ultra sonication with an ultrasonic probe tip diameter 3 mm Sonic Materials. Inc. Newtown Conn. until a homogeneous brown emulsion was obtained. 2 Cast the resulting polymer solution on a glass plate 8 cm 10 cm with a 0.1 to 1 ml pipette. 3 Put the glass plate with membranes in an oven MTI Corporation the membranes were then dried at 80 C. for 4 hours and then 120 C. for another 3 hours under the protection of nitrogen. 4 After oven temperature cooled down to room temperature take the membranes out and soaked in a 1 M KOH Fisher Scientific bath membranes were peeled off from the substrates and soaked in 1 M KOH solution for at least 24 hours for complete anion exchange Cl OH before testing.

The obtained light brown PSMIM Cl and PBI blend membranes were transparent and homogeneous with very good mechanical strength.

The PSMIM Cl and PBI blend membrane 4 preparation procedure was used for the preparation of PSMIM Cl and PBI blend membranes 5 6 and 7. The ratio of PSMIM Cl solution to PBI solution was varied as shown in Table 4 below.

The membranes were tested and determined to meet the classification as a Helper Membrane according to the test set forth in the Summary of the Invention section of the present application. The testing results are summarized in Table 4 below.

Preparation procedure of Helper Membrane from blends of PSMIM Cl and PPO 1 Add 0.5 ml of 10.2 wt PPO polymer solution into 4 ml of PSMIM Cl solution VBC content in copolymer was 46 wt and white precipitate was immediately formed. The solid in the polymer solution was dispersed by ultra sonication with an ultrasonic probe tip diameter 3 mm Sonic Materials. Inc. until no obvious large particles were observed. 2 The resulting polymer solution was cast on a glass plate 8 cm 10 cm with a 0.1 to 1 ml pipette. Polymer phase separation was observed. 3 The glass plate with membranes was put in an oven MTI Corporation the membranes were then dried at 80 C. for 4 hours and then 120 C. for another 3 hours under the protection of nitrogen. 4 After the oven temperature cooled down to room temperature the membranes were taken out and soaked in a 1 M KOH Fisher Scientific bath membranes were peeled off from the substrates and soaked in 1 M KOH solution for at least 24 hours for complete anion exchange Cl OH before testing.

The dried PSMIM Cl and PPO blend membrane was transparent and it turned white in KOH solution. The membrane mechanical strength was good.

The membranes were tested and determined to meet the classification as a Helper Membrane according to the test set forth in the Summary of the Invention section of the present application. The testing results are summarized in Table 5 below.

Preparation procedure for Helper Membrane 9 from blends of PSMIM Cl and Nylon 1 Added 1 ml 14.83 wt nylon polymer solution into 4 ml PSMIM Cl solution VBC content in copolymer was 38 wt and white precipitate was immediately formed. The solid in the polymer solution was dispersed by ultra sonication with an ultrasonic probe tip diameter 3 mm Sonic Materials. Inc. until a homogeneous polymer solution was obtained. 2 The resulting polymer solution was cast on a glass plate 8 cm 10 cm with a 0.1 to 1 ml pipette. 3 The membrane was air dried in the hood at room temperature overnight. 4 The glass plate with membranes was put in an oven MTI Corporation the membranes were then dried at 80 C. for 4 hours and then 120 C. for another 3 hours under nitrogen protection. 5 After the oven temperature cooled down to room temperature the membranes were taken out and soaked in a 1 M KOH Fisher Scientific bath then the membranes were peeled off from the substrates and soaked in 1 M KOH solution for at least 24 hours for complete anion exchange Cl OH before testing.

The obtained PSMIM Cl and Nylon membrane was off white and homogenous with decent mechanical strength.

The PSMIM Cl and Nylon blend membrane 9 preparation procedure was used for the preparation of PSMIM Cl and Nylon blend membranes 10. The ratio of PSMIM Cl solution to Nylon solution.

The membranes were tested and determined to meet the classification as a Helper Membrane according to the test set forth in the Summary of the Invention section of the present application. The testing results are summarized in Table 6 below.

Preparation procedure for Helper Membrane 11 from blends of PSMIM Cl and PE 1 1 ml 15 wt PE hot polymer solution was added into 4 ml of PSMIM Cl solution VBC content in copolymer was 46 wt and a white precipitate was immediately formed. The solid in the polymer solution was dispersed by ultra sonication with an ultrasonic probe tip diameter 3 mm Sonic Materials. Inc. until a homogeneous polymer solution was obtained. 2 The resulting polymer solution was cast on a glass plate 8 cm 10 cm with a 0.1 to 1 ml pipette. Polymer phase separation was observed. 3 The glass plate with membranes was put in an oven MTI Corporation the membranes were then dried at 80 C. for 4 hours and then 120 C. for another 3 hours under nitrogen protection. 4 After the oven temperature cooled down to room temperature the membranes were taken out and soaked in a 1 M KOH Fisher Scientific bath then the membranes were peeled off from the substrates and soaked in 1 M KOH solution for at least 24 hours for complete anion exchange Cl OH before testing.

The PSMIM Cl and PE blend membrane 11 preparation procedure was used for the preparation of PSMIM Cl and PE blend membrane 12. The ratio of PSMIM Cl solution to PE solution is shown in Table 7 below.

The membranes were tested and determined to meet the classification as a Helper Membrane according to the test set forth in the Summary of the Invention section of the present application. The test results are summarized in Table 7 below.

Many polymers related to PBI PPO Nylon and PE could also be added to the membrane to improve its strength. PE is a polyolefin. Other polyolefins and chlorinated or fluorinated polyolefins could also be blended with PSMMIM to produce a helper catalyst. PBI contains cyclic amines in its repeat unit. Other polymers containing cyclic amines could also be blended with PSMMIM to produce a Helper Membrane. PPO contains phenylene groups. Other polymers containing phenylene or phenyl groups could also be blended with PSMMIM to produce a Helper Membrane. Nylon contains amine and carboxylate linkages. Other polymers containing amine or carboxylate linkages could also be blended with PSMMIM to produce a Helper Membrane.

The objective of this example is to identify a Helper Membrane that does not contain styrene. In particular it will be shown that a terpolymer of methyl methacrylate MMA butyl acrylate BA and the 1 methyl imidazole adduct of VBC which will be referred to as methylimidazolium poly vinylbenzylchloride co methyl methacrylate co butylacrylate chloride PVMBMIM Cl is a Helper Membrane.

PVMBMIM Cl solution was prepared by a two step reaction process 1 poly VBC co MMA co BA synthesis from the reaction of 4 vinylbenzyl chloride VBC methyl methacrylate MMA and butylacrylate BA in toluene under nitrogen gas S. J. Smith protection with 2 2 Azobis 2 methylpropionitrile AIBN as initiator then 2 reacting poly VBC co MMA co BA with 1 methylimidazole at room temperature for more than 24 hours to obtained PVMBMIM Cl polymer solution.

Synthesis of poly 4 vinylbenzyl chloride co methyl methacrylate co butylacrylate monomers Sigma Aldrich MMA 4.511 g BA 4.702 g VBC 4.701 g were polymerized in toluene Sigma Aldrich 25 ml with AIBN 0.0811 g as initiator. The reaction was kept at 50 55 C. for 41.62 hours under nitrogen protection with vigorous stirring. Terpolymer was precipitated out in methanol Avantor Performance Materials Inc. and washed with methanol for several times. The obtained polymer powder was dried in an oven at 80 C. for 2 hours and then 120 C. for another 2 hours. 6.4319 g polymer powder was collected yield 46.23 . VBC content in the copolymer was 33.79 wt .

Synthesis of methylimidazolium poly VBC co MMA co BA chloride PVMBMIM Cl 1 methylimidazole Sigma Aldrich 0.55 ml 0.5616 g was added to the solution of the poly VBC co MMA co BA 2.06 g in anhydrous N N Dimethylformamide DMF Sigma Aldrich 15 ml . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for more than 26 hours.

Membrane preparation 1 PVMBMIM Cl polymer solution prepared above was cast onto a flat glass 8 cm 10 cm with a 0.1 to 1 ml pipette. 2 The membrane was air dried at room temperature for overnight. 3 The glass plate with membranes was put in an oven MTI Corporation the membranes were then dried at 80 C. for 2 hours and then 120 C. for another 2 hours under the protection of nitrogen. 4 After the oven temperature cooled down to room temperature the membranes were taken out and soaked in a 1 M KOH Fisher Scientific bath. Membranes were peeled off from the substrates and soaked in 1 M KOH solution for at least 24 hours for completely anion exchange Cl OH before testing.

The PVMBMIM Cl membrane was transparent with very good mechanical strength. The membranes were tested according to the test set forth in the Summary of the Invention section of the present application with results set forth in Table 8 below.

The membranes were tested and determined to meet the classification as a Helper Membrane according to the test set forth in the Summary of the Invention section of the present application. The membrane supported 55 mA cmof COconversion current at an applied potential of 2.8 V. The selectivity was about 90 . Therefore PVMBMIM is a Helper Membrane.

The objective of this example is to demonstrate that hydrophilic materials can be added to the membrane to improve water retention. In this example hygroscopic oxide materials were introduced during the membrane preparation to improve water uptake and water retention in the membrane. Hygroscopic oxide materials include silica SiO zirconia ZrO and titania TiO . In this example zirconia was tested.

Zirconium IV propoxide 70 wt. in propanol 333972 Sigma Aldrich was mixed with the polymer solution prepared as set forth in Specific Example 1 for the synthetic route depicted in to 15 wt in DMF. The mixture was sonicated in an ultrasonic bath for 30 minutes to obtain a homogeneous solution. The solution containing zirconia was cast to form a membrane on a glass slide following the procedure set forth in Specific Example 1 for casting the PSMMIM solution. The membrane was dried at 80 C. for 1 hour and 120 C. for 30 minutes in a vacuum oven. Then the membrane was detached from the glass slide in 1 M KOH solution and allowed to exchange to the hydroxide form. The membrane was rinsed with deionized water to remove free KOH and was sandwiched between an Ag cathode and a RuOanode following the procedure set forth in the Summary of the Invention section of the present application to classify as a Helper Membrane. The whole assembly was mounted in a Fuel Cell Technologies 5 cmfuel cell hardware assembly. The membrane showed 60 mA cmat 2.8 V with 84 selectivity so the membrane is a Helper Membrane.

The objective of this example is to demonstrate that a deliquescent material ZnBr can be added to the membrane to improve water retention.

The cathode was prepared as follows. First a silver nanoparticle ink was prepared via the addition of 50 mg of silver nanoparticles 20 40 nm 45509 Alfa Aesar to 0.8 mL of deionized water 18.2 Mohm Millipore and 0.4 mL of isopropanol 3032 16 Macron . The mixture was then sonicated for one minute. The resulting silver ink was air brushed onto carbon fiber paper Toray Paper 120 40 wet proofing Toray Industries Inc. Tokyo Japan covering an area of 5 cm 5 cm. This square was then cut into four equally sized squares of 2.5 cm 2.5 cm each.

The anode was prepared the same way in each cell as follows. First a ruthenium oxide nanoparticle ink was prepared via the addition of 50 mg of RuOnanoparticles 11804 Alfa Aesar to 0.8 mL of deionized water 18.2 Mohm Millipore and 0.4 mL of isopropanol 3032 16 Macron . The mixture was then sonicated for one minute. The resulting RuOink was air brushed onto carbon fiber paper Toray Paper 120 40 wet proofing covering an area of 5 cm 5 cm. This square was then cut into four equally sized squares of 2.5 cm 2.5 cm each.

For the cell with ZnBr added to the membrane surface 25 mg of ZnBr Sigma Aldrich 02128 were spread across the surface of a PSMMIM membrane prepared as set forth in Specific Example 5 for the synthesis of poly 4 vinylbenzyl chloride co styrene . For the cell with ZnBr incorporated into the membrane solution 7.5 mg of ZnBr were added to 3 ml of membrane solution prior to casting. The PSMMIM membrane was then cast and prepared in the typical fashion as described previously.

For each cell the cathode PSMIM membrane and anode were sandwiched together such that the metal catalysts of each electrode faced the membrane. The assembly was mounted in a Fuel Cell Technologies 5 cmfuel cell hardware assembly with serpentine graphite flow fields.

Each cell was tested by holding the cell at 2.8 V for at least one hour. Air was permitted to flow over the anode flow field while humidified COwas passed through the cathode flow field at a flow rate of 15 sccm.

In the case of the membrane with a ZnBr coating the initial current was only 22 mA cmbut it was very stable. No membrane dry out was detected.

The membrane that had been soaked in ZnBr initially showed 60 mA cmcurrent but fell to 22 mA cmafter about 1 hour.

The objective of this experiment is to demonstrate that Helper Membranes are useful for water electrolyzers.

A 50 300 micron thick PSMMIM membrane was synthesized as in Specific Example 1. The membrane was sandwiched between the anode and the cathode with the catalysts facing the membrane. A cathode is prepared as follows a cathode ink was made by mixing 30 mg of IrOnanoparticles A17849 Alfa Aesar with 0.2 ml deionized water 18.2 Mohm Millipore and 0.4 ml isopropanol 3032 16 Macron . The mixture was then sonicated for 1 minute. The cathode ink was sprayed onto a gas diffusion layer Sigracet 35 BC GDL Ion Power covering an area of 2.5 cm 2.5 cm. An anode was prepared as follows a catalyst ink was made by mixing 15 mg of Pt black 43838 Alfa Aesar with 0.2 ml deionized water 18.2 Mohm Millipore 0.2 ml isopropanol 3032 16 Macron . The anode catalyst ink was hand painted onto a gas diffusion layer Sigracet 35 BC GDL Ion Power covering an area of 2.5 cm 2.5 cm. The whole assembly was mounted in Fuel Cell Technologies 5 cmfuel cell hardware assembly with serpentine flow fields. A 1 M KOH solution of water is fed to both cathode and anode chambers at a flow rate of 5 sccm. The cell was run at room temperature either potential dynamically or at constant current. For instance the current output was 300 and 400 mA cmat a cell potential of 1.8 V and 1.9 V respectively.

The use of an anion exchange membrane also enables the use of non precious metal as catalysts. Nickel foam EQ bcnf 16m MTI was used as both cathode and anode. A current density of 80 mA cmwas achieved at a cell potential of 2 V and room temperature.

This example shows that Helper Membranes are also useful for alkaline membrane fuel cell power generator.

Pt black 43838 Alfa Aesar was used as the catalysts for both cathode and anode. The catalysts ink was made by mixing 15 mg of Pt black with 0.4 ml of anion exchange polymer solution 1 wt in DMF and was hand painted onto a gas diffusion layer Sigracet 35 BC GDL Ion Power covering an area of 2.5 cm 2.5 cm. The electrodes were dried under vacuum at 120 C. for 30 minutes. A 50 300 micrometer thick membrane prepared as set forth in Specific Example 1 for the preparation of the first inhibitor free styrene was sandwiched between cathode and anode with the respective catalysts facing the membrane. The entire assembly was mounted in Fuel Cell Technologies 5 cmfuel cell hardware assembly with serpentine flow fields. Hand Owere humidified via 350 cc water bottles at room temperature and were fed to anode and cathode chambers at 20 ccm respectively. The cell was run at room temperature and atmosphere pressure. The cell was conditioned by repeatedly applying a cell potential of 0.3 V and 0.6 V for 1 hour until the cell performance was stable. Currents of 60 mA and 150 mA were achieved at 0.6 V and 0.2 V respectively. A power of 36 mW was attained at ambient conditions.

The objective of this example is to provide a Helper Membrane made from methylimidazolium poly 2 6 dimethyl 1 4 phenylene oxide bromide PPOMIM Br polymer solution.

PPOMIM Br solution was prepared by a two step reaction process 1 Methyl brominated poly 2 6 dimethyl 1 4 phenylene oxide PPO Br synthesis from the reaction of poly 2 6 dimethyl 1 4 phenylene oxide PPO with N bromosuccinimide NBS in chlorobenzene under argon gas S. J. Smith protection with 2 2 Azobis 2 methylpropionitrile AIBN as initiator. 2 PPO Br was reacted with 1 methylimidazole at room temperature to 60 C. for more than 15 hours to obtained PPOMIM Br polymer solution.

Synthesis of methyl brominated poly 2 6 dimethyl 1 4 phenylene oxide PPO Br . PPO Br 14 with low bromination ratio was synthesized according to the literature Reactive Functional Polymers 70 2010 944 950 a detail procedure can be summarized as follows NBS 2.84 g 15.96 mmol Sigma Aldrich and AIBN 0.12 g 0.73 mmol were added to a solution of PPO 2.839 24.08 mmol Sigma Aldrich in chlorobenzene 200 ml . The mixture was stirred at 125 135 C. for 4 6 hours under nitrogen protection the reaction mixture was then added to excess methanol to precipitate the product. After filtration and washing with methanol for several times the polymer was dried at room temperature under vacuum for more than 2 days. 2.45 g of light yellow powder was collected yield 51.14 . The bromination ratio of PPO Br was calculated from the integration of the NMR methyl peak and methylene peak 18.3 

PPO Br membrane 14a with high bromination ratio was synthesized according to the literature Journal of Membrane Science 425 426 2013 131 140 a detail procedure can be summarized as follows NBS 6.27 g 35.2 mmol Sigma Aldrich and AIBN 0.4 g 2.4 mmol were added to a solution of PPO 2.89 24.1 mmol Sigma Aldrich in chlorobenzene 160 ml . The mixture was stirred at 125 135 C. for 18 hours under nitrogen protection the reaction mixture was then added to excess Methanol to precipitate the product. After filtration and washing with methanol for several times the polymer was dried at room temperature under vacuum for more than 2 days. 3.04 g of light yellow powder was collected yield 63.4 . Bromination ratio 56.6 

Synthesis of methylimidazolium poly 2 6 dimethyl 1 4 phenylene oxide bromide PPOMIM Br membrane 14 1 methylimiazole Sigma Aldrich 0.37 ml 4.6 mmol was added to the solution of the PPO Br membrane 14 1.0 g in 15 ml tetrahydrofuran THF Sigma Aldrich and 5 ml methanol Avantor Performance Materials Inc. . The mixture was refluxed at 55 65 C. for 18 hours.

Synthesis of methylimidazolium poly 2 6 dimethyl 1 4 phenylene oxide bromide PPOMIM Br membrane 14a 1 methylimiazole Sigma Aldrich 0.67 ml 8.5 mmol was added to the solution of the PPO Br membrane 14a 1.5 g in 24 ml tetrahydrofuran THF and 8 ml methanol. The mixture was stirred at room temperature to 65 C. for 18 hours. Brown polymer separated from the solution at the end of the reaction.

Membrane preparation 1 Cast PPOMIM Br 14 polymer solution prepared above onto a flat glass 8 cm 10 cm with a 0.1 to 1 ml pipette. 2 The membrane was air dried at room temperature for overnight for solvent evaporation. 3 The membrane was soaked in a 1 M KOH Fisher Scientific bath for at least 24 hours for complete anion exchange Cl OH before testing.

PPOMIM Br membrane 14a polymer solution was taken after 4 hours reaction of PPO Br with 1 methylimidazole at room temperature for membrane casting. PPOMIM Br membrane 14a membrane was very soft and mechanical strength was very weak. The text results are set forth in Table 9 below.

The objective of this example is to determine whether a methylimidazolium poly 4 vinylbenzylchloride membrane with no styrene is also a Helper Membrane.

The objective of this example is to provide a Helper Membrane made from methylimidazolium poly vinylbenzylchloride chloride PVMIM Cl polymer solution.

PVMIM Cl solution was prepared from commercial available poly vinylbenzyl chloride PVBC and 1 methylimidazole as shown in the structural diagram below.

Synthesis of methylimidazolium PVBC PVMIM Cl 1 methylimiazole Sigma Aldrich 2.33 ml 29.23 mmol was added to the solution of the PVBC Sigma Aldrich 4.9466 g in anhydrous N N Dimethylformamide DMF Sigma Aldrich 40 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 46.9 hours. PVMIM Cl polymer solution was not stable and not suitable for long time storage.

Membranes preparation 1 Cast PVMIM Cl polymer solution prepared above onto a flat glass 8 cm 10 cm with a 0.1 to 1 ml pipette. 2 Put the glass plate with membranes in an oven MTI Corporation the membranes were then dried at 80 C. for 4 hours and then 120 C. for another 2 hours under the protection of nitrogen. 3 After the oven temperature cooled down to room temperature the membranes were taken out and soaked in a 1 M KOH Fisher Scientific bath. Membranes were peeled off from the substrates and soaked in 1 M KOH solution for at least 24 hours for complete anion exchange Cl OH before testing.

In this case when the membrane was exposed to water it swelled to form a gel like structure which was too soft to test. So it is uncertain as to whether the membrane is a Helper Membrane. This example indicates that methylimidazolium poly 4 vinylbenzylchloride membrane with no styrene PBI or other copolymers is not a suitable membrane. Instead at least 10 of one of another polymer such as styrene or PBI is needed to make a suitable membrane.

The objective of this example is to provide a Helper Membrane made from blends of poly vinylbenzyl chloride PVBC and polybenzimidazole PBI .

Two methods were tired for the preparation of Helper Membrane from PVBC and PBI. 1 A PBI and PVBC crosslinked membrane was prepared which was then reacted with 1 methylimidazole. 2 PBI and PVBC were crosslinked in the solution and 1 methylimidazole was added during the crosslinking process.

Membrane preparation procedure from the first method 1 Prepared 2 wt in DMAc PBI and 2 wt PVBC in DMAc solution polymer solution. 2 Added 3.2 ml PBI 2 wt solution into 2 wt PVBC solution 2 ml . 3 The mixtures were kept at room temperature and ultrasonicated for 1 hour. 4 The resulting polymer solution was cast on a glass plate 8 cm 10 cm with a 0.1 to 1 ml pipette. 5 The glass plate with membranes was put in an oven MTI Corporation the membranes were then dried at 70 C. overnight and then 120 C. for another 3 hours under vacuum. 6 After the oven temperature cooled down to room temperature the membranes were taken out and soaked in DI water. 7 The membrane was dried at 200 C. for 1 hour. 8 The PVBC PBI membrane was soaked in 1 methylimidazole solution for 2 days. 9 The membrane was rinsed with DI water and the membrane was then soaked in a 1 M KOH Fisher Scientific bath for at least 24 hours for complete anion exchange Cl OH before testing.

The membranes were tested according to the test protocol set forth in the Summary of the Invention section of the present application with results set forth in Table 10 below.

Membrane 17 preparation procedure 1 16.83 mmol PVBC was dissolved in 20 ml dimethylacetamide DMAc . 2 1.01 mmol PBI in 15 ml DMAc solution was added into the PVBC DMAc solution. 3 A heater was turned on to increase temperature gradually to 90 C. for crosslinking of PBI with PVBC part of polymer solution turned into gel after 2 3 hours reaction. 4 The heater was turned off and to let the solution cool to room temperature then 15.1 mmol 1 methylimidazole was added to the polymer solution and the reaction was kept at room temperature for 4 6 hours. 5 The polymer solution was cast onto a flat glass plate 8 cm 10 cm with a 0.1 to 1 ml pipette. 6 The glass plate with membranes was put in an oven MTI Corporation the membranes were then dried at 70 C. overnight and then 120 C. for another 3 hours under vacuum. 7 After the oven temperature cooled down to room temperature the membranes were taken out and soaked in 1 M KOH bath for at least 24 hours for complete anion exchange Cl OH before testing.

The membranes were tested according to the test protocol set forth in the Summary of the Invention section of the present application with results set forth in Table 11 below.

This result shows that unlike the membrane that was 100 methylimidazolium poly vinylbenzylchloride a membrane with 81.75 methylimidazolium poly vinylbenzylchloride is still a Helper Membrane. Extrapolation of the data indicates that up to 90 methylimidazolium poly vinylbenzylchloride can be present in the membrane and still have suitable performance.

The objective of this example is to illustrate a procedure to convert COto formic acid in an electrochemical device by using a tin cathode catalyst and the PBI PSMIM Cl anion exchange membrane 6 in Table 4 above.

The electrolysis was conducted in an electrolysis cell with an anode a cathode and an anion exchange membrane assembled in a modified 5 cmfuel cell hardware assembly Fuel Cell Technologies with gas and liquid channels and serpentine flow fields.

The anode in this example was prepared as follows. A RuOink solution was prepared by mixing 18 mg of RuO 11804 Alfa Aesar and 2 mg of graphene nanoplatelets A 12 Graphene Laboratories Calverton N.Y. with 0.4 ml deionized water 18.2 Mohm Millipore water 0.4 ml isopropanol 3032 16 Macron and 0.14 ml of 5 Nafion solution 1100EW DuPont . The RuOink was sonicated for 1 min and then hand painted onto a gas diffusion layer TGP H 120 40 wet proofing Toray Paper Fuel Cell Earth Woburn Mass. with an area of 3.0 cm 3.0 cm.

The cathode in this example was prepared as follows. A Sn ink solution was prepared by mixing 18 mg of Sn nanoparticles 60 80 nm SN M 04 NP American Elements Los Angeles Calif. and 2 mg of graphene nanopowders A 12 Graphene Laboratories with 0.4 ml deionized water 18.2 Mohm Millipore water 0.4 ml isopropanol 3032 16 Macron and 0.14 ml of 5 Nafion solution 1100EW DuPont . The Sn ink solution was sonicated for 1 min and then hand painted onto a gas diffusion layer TGP H 120 40 wet proofing Toray Paper Fuel Cell Earth with an area of 3.0 cm 3.0 cm.

The anion exchange membrane used for this test was PBI PSMIM Cl membrane 6 as described above in Table 4. Before use the membrane was soaked in 1 M KOH solution for at least 12 hours.

In this example 10 mL of catholyte was subjected to recirculation run for 5 hours while 20 mL anolyte was replaced with fresh anolyte solution after every 1 hour of electrolysis.

The formate produced was detected and analyzed as follows. The formate produced was first subjected to derivitization at 60 C. for 1 hour in the presence of 2 sulfuric acid solution in ethanol. The product was then analyzed by an Agilent Technologies 6890N GC 5973 MS equipped with a Phenomenex Zebron ZB WAX Plus capillary GC column L 30 m I.D. 0.25 mm df 0.25 m .

The objective of this example is to show that a membrane made from 2 hydroxyethyl imidazolium poly 4 vinylbenzylchloride co styrene chloride PSIMOH Cl polymer solution is a helper membrane.

PSIMOH Cl solution in anhydrous dimethylformamide was prepared by a two step reaction process as shown in the following figure. 1 poly 4 VBC co St synthesis from the reaction of styrene St with 4 vinylbenzyl chloride 4 VBC in chlorobenzene under nitrogen gas S. J. Smith Urbana Ill. protection with 2 2 Azobis 2 methylpropionitrile AIBN as initiator 2 poly 4 VBC co St reacts with 1 2 hydroxyethyl imidazole at 50 C. for more than 20 hours to obtained PSMIMOH Cl polymer solution.

Synthesis of poly 4 vinylbenzyl chloride co styrene A solution of inhibitor free styrene Sigma Aldrich Milwaukee Wis. 19.53 g 0.19 mol and 4 vinylbenzyl chloride Sigma Aldrich Milwaukee Wis. 16.16 g 0.11 mol in chlorobenzene Sigma Aldrich Milwaukee Wis. 45 ml was heated at 60 68 C. in an oil bath for 17.83 h under nitrogen gas with AIBN Sigma Aldrich Milwaukee Wis. 0.36 g 1.02 wt based on the total monomers weight as initiator. The copolymer was precipitated in CHOH THF and dried under vacuum. VBC content in the copolymer was 45.28 wt .

Synthesis of 2 hydroxyethyl imidazolium poly 4 VBC co St chloride PSIMOH Cl 1 2 hydroxyethyl imidazole Sigma Aldrich Milwaukee Wis. 0.7667 g 6.84 mmol was added to the solution of the poly 4 VBC co St 1.9657 g in anhydrous N N Dimethylformamide DMF Sigma Aldrich Milwaukee Wis. 15 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 0.5 1 hour and then heated at 50 54 C. for 22.25 hours.

Membrane preparation 1 The PSIMOH Cl polymer solution prepared above was cast onto a flat glass 13.5 cm 13.5 cm with a 0.1 to 1 ml pipette. 2 The glass plate with membranes was put in an oven MTI Corporation Richmond Calif. the membranes were then dried at 80 C. for 7 hours and then 120 C. for another 2 hours under the protection of nitrogen. 3 After oven temperature cooled down to room temperature the membranes were taken out and soaked in a 1 M KOH Fisher Scientific Fair Lawn N.J. bath. Membranes were peeled off from the substrates and soaked in 1 M KOH solution for at least 24 hours for complete anion exchange Cl OH before testing.

The resultant membrane was tested and determined to meet the classification as a Helper Membrane according to the test set forth in the Summary of the Invention section of the present application. The testing results are listed in Table 13 below.

It is useful to compare the results here to results from the prior literature. Membranes containing vinylbenzyl imidazolium but no styrene have been previously reported by Lin et al. Chem. Mater. 2013 25 1858 1867 Tang et al. Journal of Polymer Science Part A Polymer Chemistry Vol. 43 5477 5489 2005 as also reviewed by Varcoe et al. Energy Environ. Sci. 2014 7 3135 and in U.S. Pat. Nos. 8 449 652 and 8 552 130 as well as U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. US2009 0266230. However when the polymers with no styrene in specific example 16 were tested it was found that the polymers dissolved in water so no suitable membrane could be obtained.

Mikaye U.S. Pat. No. 4 430 445 describes the use of vinylbenzyl imidazolium as a cross linking agent for styrene but does not disclose styrene formulations with 10 90 by weight of vinylbenzyl imidazolium.

Bara et al. Pat. App. Pub. No. US2012 0186446 describes other formulations that are permeable to CO. The formulations are unsuitable for use in a COelectrolyzer.

Zhang et al. J. Mater. Chem. Vol. 21 2011 p. 12744 and Said et al. Chemistry and Materials Research Vol. 6 No. 2 2014 p. 19 report other polymers containing imidazolium groups but no vinylbenzyl chloride or styrene. Those polymers have much lower ion conductivities and are not suitable for use in converting COto useful reaction products.

Vinylbenzyl imidazolium polymers are reported in a 2012 Ph.D. thesis entitled Synthesis and Applications of Imidazolium Ionic Liquid and Their Polymer Derivatives by Woon Su Oh of Missouri University of Science and Technology available from University Microfilms International UMI Publication No. 3530383 . Oh s polymers have lower imidazonium content than in the polymers disclosed here.

While particular elements embodiments and applications of the present invention have been shown and described it will be understood that the invention is not limited thereto since modifications can be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the present disclosure particularly in light of the foregoing teachings.

The examples given above are merely illustrative and are not meant to be an exhaustive list of all possible embodiments applications or modifications of the present electrochemical device. Thus various modifications and variations of the described methods and systems of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Although the invention has been described in connection with specific embodiments it should be understood that the invention as claimed should not be unduly limited to such specific embodiments. Indeed various modifications of the described modes for carrying out the invention which are obvious to those skilled in the chemical arts or in the relevant fields are intended to be within the scope of the appended claims.

