---

title: Systems and methods for enhancing user data derived from digital communications
abstract: A computer-implemented method for enhancing and utilizing user data derived from digital interactions includes receiving a submission generated by input into a client side application interface by a first user on a first computing device, and determining, based on the attributes of the submission, that the submission is in response to an issue-specific communication advertising information concerning a first issue. The method includes generating a first dataset associated with the first user, searching one or more additional datasets for additional data to be associated with data elements of the first dataset, associating the additional data from the one or more additional datasets with the first user, generating a data model, and requesting records associated with additional users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09471932&OS=09471932&RS=09471932
owner: CAY BAXIS HOLDINGS, LLC
number: 09471932
owner_city: New Haven
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160420
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 879 063 titled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ENHANCING USER DATA DERIVED FROM DIGITAL COMMUNICATIONS and filed 8 Oct. 2015 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 079 521 titled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ENHANCING USER DATA DERIVED FROM DIGITAL COMMUNICATIONS and filed 13 Nov. 2013 which is a continuation of PCT Application No. PCT US13 68354 titled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ENHANCING USER DATA DERIVED FROM DIGITAL COMMUNICATIONS and filed 4 Nov. 2013 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 722 231 titled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR AUTOMATED ENHANCEMENT AND APPENDING OF DATA DERIVED FROM DIGITAL COMMUNICATIONS and filed 4 Nov. 2012 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated in their entirety by these references.

Organizations providing information concerning certain issues often wish to cater their outreach efforts to focus on individuals who are most likely to share an interest in those particular issues. Time and resources for contacting and educating people concerning various issues is often limited while the number of people to sort through can daunting. During political campaigns for example a great deal of money is frequently spent on advertising that is inefficiently directed to broad segments of the population. Similarly companies marketing to consumers typically desire to present their products to individuals they foresee being interested in the products without spending excessive amounts advertising to others who are likely to show little or no interest in the advertised products. However while organizations in the digital age frequently collect information related to individuals such information is often not useful in effectively targeting individuals who might be most likely to respond well to various advertising and outreach efforts.

As will be described in greater detail below the instant disclosure generally relates to systems and methods for enhancing user data derived from digital communications.

According to at least one embodiment a computer implemented method for enhancing user data derived from digital communications may include detecting a transaction request from a first computing device in response to an issue specific invitation and generating a first dataset based on the transaction request the first dataset including an issue specific data element corresponding to the issue specific invitation. The method may additionally include associating the first dataset with a user of the first computing device identifying a second dataset associated with the user and appending the second dataset to the first dataset to generate an appended dataset.

According to some embodiments a computer implemented method for enhancing user data derived from digital communications may include detecting a plurality of transaction requests in response to an issue specific invitation generating a first plurality of datasets based on the plurality of transaction requests each of the first plurality of datasets including an issue specific data element corresponding to the issue specific invitation associating the first plurality of datasets with a plurality of computing device users identifying a second plurality of datasets associated with the plurality of computing device users and determining at least one correlation between the issue specific data element and at least a portion of the second plurality of datasets.

According to various embodiments a system for enhancing user data derived from digital communications may include a detecting module that detects a transaction request from a first computing device in response to an issue specific invitation a generating module that generates a first dataset based on the transaction request the first dataset including an issue specific data element corresponding to the issue specific invitation an associating module that associates the first dataset with a user of the first computing device. The system may further include an identifying module that identifies a second dataset associated with the user an appending module that appends the second dataset to the first dataset to generate an appended dataset and at least one processor configured to execute the receiving module the generating module the associating module the identifying module and the appending module.

According to at least one embodiment a non transitory computer readable storage medium may cause a first computing device to detect a transaction request from a second computing device in response to an issue specific invitation generate a first dataset based on the transaction request the first dataset including an issue specific data element corresponding to the issue specific invitation and associate the first dataset with a user of the second computing device. The non transitory computer readable storage medium may cause a first computing device to identify a second dataset associated with the user append the second dataset to the first dataset to generate an appended dataset.

These and other embodiments features and advantages will be more fully understood upon reading the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

Throughout the drawings identical reference characters and descriptions indicate similar but not necessarily identical elements. While the exemplary embodiments described herein are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail herein. However the exemplary embodiments described herein are not intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed. Rather the instant disclosure covers all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the appended claims.

The present disclosure is generally directed to systems and methods for enhancing user data derived from digital communications. Embodiments of this disclosure may enable user data derived from digital communications such as communications that include digital transaction requests and or message based communications to be appended with additional user data to generate an appended dataset associated with the user. Such appended datasets may be utilized for identifying researching and or contacting prospective or current customers of commercial goods and or services prospective or current donors to not for profit organizations social organizations and or political organization and or prospective or current consumers of issue based information. An appended dataset may be further modified through analysis comparison and or appendation with additional data associated with the user to identify additional information and attributes associated with the user.

The following will provide with reference to detailed descriptions of exemplary systems for enhancing user data derived from digital communications. Detailed descriptions of corresponding computer implemented systems and methods will also be provided in connection with . In addition detailed descriptions of an exemplary computing system and network architecture capable of implementing one or more of the embodiments described herein will be provided in connection with respectively.

For example and as will be explained in greater detail below exemplary system may include a detecting module that may detect a transaction and or a communication request. Exemplary system may additionally include a generating module that may generate a first dataset based on the transaction request the first dataset including an issue specific data element corresponding to the issue specific invitation. Exemplary system may also include an associating module that may associate the first dataset with a user of the first computing device. Exemplary system may additionally include an identifying module that may identify at least one dataset such as a second dataset a third dataset and or any number of datasets associated with the user. Exemplary system may further include an appending module that may append the second dataset and or any additional datasets to the first dataset to generate an appended dataset.

According to various embodiments exemplary system may also include a routing module that may route the transaction through a messaging service. Exemplary system may additionally include a determining module that may determine at least one correlation between the issue specific data element and at least a portion of the second dataset. Exemplary system may further include a receiving module for communications from one or more devices such as user computing device . Exemplary system may further include analyzing module for analyzing and or modeling data. Although illustrated as separate elements one or more of modules in may represent portions of a single module or application.

In certain embodiments one or more modules in may represent one or more software applications or programs that when executed by a computing device may cause the computing device to perform one or more tasks. For example and as will be described in greater detail below one or more of modules may represent software modules stored and configured to run on one or more computing devices such as the devices illustrated in e.g. first computing subsystem user computing device and or second computing subsystem computing system in and or portions of exemplary network architecture in . One or more of modules in may also represent all or portions of one or more special purpose computers configured to perform one or more tasks.

Exemplary system may also include at least one database for storing various data elements. Database may represent portions of a single database or computing device or a plurality of databases or computing devices. For example database may represent a portion of a server computing system in and or portions of exemplary network architecture in . Alternatively database may represent one or more physically separate devices capable of being accessed by a computing device such as an external computing device or server computing system in and or portions of exemplary network architecture in .

Exemplary system illustrated in may be implemented in a variety of ways. For example all or a portion of exemplary system may represent portions of exemplary system in . As shown in system may include a first computing subsystem connected to a user computing device via a network . A second computing subsystem may also be connected to first computing subsystem and or user computing device via network . Computing subsystem may be programmed with one or more of modules and or may store all or a portion of the data in database . Additionally or alternatively second computing subsystem may be programmed with one or more of modules and or may store all or a portion of the data in database .

In at least one embodiment one or more of modules from may when executed by at least one processor of first computing subsystem facilitate first computing subsystem in enhancing user data derived from digital communications. In one example first computing subsystem may represent at least one computing device that detects a digital communication from user computing device and enhances user data derived from the digital communication. For example and as will be described in greater detail below one or more of modules may cause first computing subsystem to enhance user data derived from the digital communication with user computing device . In at least one embodiment first computing subsystem may detect a digital communication between user computing device and second computing subsystem .

By way of example and as will be described in greater detail below detecting module may be programmed to detect a transaction and or a communication request from user computing device in response to an issue specific invitation. For example detecting module may be programmed to detect a transaction and or communication request sent from user computing device to second computing subsystem . Generating module may be programmed to generate a first dataset based on the transaction request the first dataset including an issue specific data element corresponding to the issue specific invitation. Associating module may be programmed to associate the first dataset with a user of user computing device . Identifying module may be programmed to identify a second dataset associated with the user. Appending module may be programmed to append the second dataset to the first dataset to generate an appended dataset. Routing module may be programmed to route the transaction through a messaging service. Determining module may be programmed to determine at least one correlation between the issue specific data element and at least a portion of the second dataset.

First computing subsystem generally represents any type or form of at least one computing device capable of reading computer executable instructions. Examples of first computing subsystem include without limitation laptops tablets desktops servers cellular phones PDAs multimedia players embedded systems combinations of one or more of the same exemplary computing system in or any other suitable computing device. In some embodiments first computing subsystem may comprise at least a portion of a server. For example first computing subsystem may comprise a server that generally represents any type or form of computing device that is capable of enhancing user data derived from digital communications. Examples of such a server include without limitation application servers and database servers configured to provide various database services and or run certain software applications.

User computing device generally represents any type or form of computing device capable of reading computer executable instructions. Examples of user computing device include without limitation laptops tablets desktops servers cellular phones PDAs multimedia players embedded systems combinations of one or more of the same exemplary computing system in or any other suitable computing device.

Second computing subsystem generally represents any type or form of at least one computing device capable of reading computer executable instructions. Examples of first computing subsystem include without limitation laptops tablets desktops servers cellular phones PDAs multimedia players embedded systems combinations of one or more of the same exemplary computing system in or any other suitable computing device. In some embodiments first computing subsystem may comprise at least a portion of a server. For example first computing subsystem may comprise a server that generally represents any type or form of computing device that is capable of enhancing user data derived from digital communications. Examples of such a server include without limitation application servers and database servers configured to provide various database services and or run certain software applications.

Network generally represents any medium or architecture capable of facilitating communication or data transfer. Examples of network include without limitation an intranet a WAN a LAN a PAN the Internet PLC a cellular network e.g. a GSM network exemplary network architecture in or the like. Network may facilitate communication or data transfer using wireless or wired connections. In one embodiment network may facilitate communication between first computing subsystem user computing device and or second computing subsystem .

As illustrated in at step one or more of the systems described herein may detect a transaction and or communication request from a computing device in response to an issue specific invitation. For example at step detecting module may as part of computing device in detect a transaction request transmitted from user computing device . According to some embodiments a plurality of transaction requests may be detected in response to the issue specific invitation.

According to at least one embodiment a transaction and or a communication request may be initiated at computing device by an end user. For example a user of user computing device may initiate a transaction and or a communication via network . According to various embodiments the user may utilize an interface presented by user computing device to request a transfer of monetary funds via network . Such transaction and or communication may be directed to first computing subsystem and or to another computing subsystem e.g. second computing subsystem .

The transaction and or communication may be initiated in response to an invitation. For example a user of user computing device may initiate the transaction and or communication in response to an issue specific invitation. An issue specific invitation may include an issue specific communication received by a user that provides the user with connection information for responding to the communication. The issue specific communication may comprise for example any suitable communication such as an advertisement notice and or other suitable direct or indirect contact related to a particular issue cause topic individual entity and or event without limitation. According to at least one embodiment a user may for example receive a communication e.g. television radio web page email text etc. inviting the user to respond by donating money for an issue specific cause e.g. to support the candidacy of a political candidate . For example the user may be invited to transfer funds to a specified telephone number via a text to donate transaction. The user may further be instructed to include text in a transaction and or communication related to an issue specific invitation that the user is responding to. For example in responding to an issue specific invitation a user may include a keyword highlighted in the issue specific invitation in the body of a text message sent by user computing device thereby alerting a recipient of the text message that the user is initiating a transaction related to the issue specific invitation.

A user may initiate any suitable type of transaction and or communication in response to an issue specific invitation without limitation. Examples of transactions that may be transmitted from user computing device include without limitation transactions in which a user 1 transacts commits to transact or pledges to transact a monetary contribution to or purchase from a political candidate campaign committee or political party committee or other duly registered political entity their vendors assignees or other authorized parties 2 transacts or commits to transact a purchase of a commercial product or service and or 3 transacts or commits to transact a pledge of support to a group cause or political candidate.

According to some embodiments a transaction initiated at user computing device by the user may include for example a billing transaction including without limitation a direct carrier transaction a text to give transaction a text to donate transaction a text to purchase transaction a text to contribute transaction a text to sign up transaction a text to purchase transaction a text to vote transaction a text to be billed transaction a text to join transaction a text to opt in transaction a text to respond transaction a share to donate transaction a post to donate transaction a tweet to donate transaction a respond to donate transaction and or any other suitable transaction. According to various embodiments user computing device may include an interface such as an application programming interface and or other means of computer executed communication for facilitating communication between various applications installed on user computing device first computing subsystem and or second computing subsystem .

Examples of communications that may be transmitted from user computing device include without limitation any type of text based and or multimedia messages such as SMS messages MMS messages smart messages or extended messages email messages social media messages browser based messages streaming messages website postings and or any other suitable types of messages.

The transaction and or communication initiated at user computing device may be transmitted over a network via any suitable type of transmission service provider or other means without limitation. For example the transaction and or communication may be transmitted from user computing device as data over network via for example a short message service a multimedia messaging service a smart messaging service an extended message service an instant messaging service an email service a message transmittal application a message response capture application a social media and or personal networking communication application programming interface a share to donate application programming interface a post to donate application programming interface a tweet to donate application programming interface a social media stream capture application a user post application a user response application a user sharing application telephony and or any other suitable means of data transmission.

According to some embodiments a transaction and or communication initiated at user computing device may be directed to and or otherwise routed through first computing subsystem . For example user computing device may request that monetary funds be sent to first computing subsystem . When the transaction and or communication request is received at first computing subsystem detecting module may detect receipt of the transaction and or communication request.

In additional embodiments a transaction and or communication initiated at user computing device may be directed to and or otherwise routed through second computing subsystem . Detecting module may be configured to detect that the transaction and or communication request has been received at first computing subsystem . For example detecting module located in first computing subsystem may monitor second computing subsystem for receipt of transaction and or communication requests from computing devices such as user computing device . In some embodiments a notification of a transaction and or communication request may be sent to first computing subsystem by user computing device and or a transmission service provider utilized to transfer data associated with the transaction and or communication request to second computing subsystem .

At step one or more of the systems described herein may generate a first dataset based on the transaction request. The first dataset may include an issue specific data element corresponding to the issue specific invitation. For example at step generating module may as part of first computing subsystem in generate a first dataset associated with a user of user computing device based on data received from user computing device in conjunction with the transaction and or communication request. For example a service provider involved in transmission of the transaction and or communication request may also transmit data that includes user identifiers and or user profile characteristics associated with the user. According to at least one embodiment a first plurality of datasets may be generated based on the plurality of transaction requests each of the first plurality of datasets including an issue specific data element corresponding to the issue specific invitation.

In some examples the transaction and or communication request may additionally include an indication that the transaction and or communication request was initiated by a user of user computing device in response to an issue specific invitation. According to at least one embodiment a user may for example receive a communication e.g. television radio web page email text etc. inviting the user to respond by donating money for an issue specific cause e.g. to support the candidacy of a political candidate . For example the user may be invited to transfer funds to a specified telephone number via a text to donate transaction. The user may further be instructed to include text in a transaction and or communication related to an issue specific invitation that the user is responding to. For example in responding to an issue specific invitation a user may include a keyword highlighted in the issue specific invitation in the body of a text message sent by user computing device thereby providing notification to a recipient of the text message that the user is initiating a transaction related to the issue specific invitation.

According to at least one embodiment generating module may generate the first dataset by receiving aggregating organizing and or formatting data associated with the user of user computing device . The user data in the first dataset generated by generating module may include data generated based on the user s response to the issue specific invitation. For example the first dataset may include an issue specific data element directly corresponding to the issue specific invitation. By way of example a user of user computing device may receive a communication e.g. television radio web page email text print mail advertisement etc. inviting the user to respond by donating money for an issue specific cause e.g. to support the candidacy of a political candidate . For example the user may be invited to transfer funds to a recipient via a specified telephone number by means of a text to donate transaction. The user may further be instructed to include specific text in a transaction and or communication related to the issue specific invitation that the user is responding to. For example in responding to an issue specific invitation a user may include a specified keyword within the body of a text message sent by user computing device thereby alerting a recipient of the text message that the user is initiating a transaction related to the issue specific invitation.

At step one or more of the systems described herein may associate the first dataset with a user of the first computing device. For example at step associating module may as part of first computing subsystem in associate the first dataset with a user of user computing device based on data received from user computing device in conjunction with the transaction and or communication request. While the first dataset may be associated with the user s legal name the first dataset may additionally or alternatively be associated with any other suitable user identifier such as without limitation a phone number IP address membership number account number and or an on line pseudonym associated with the user including for example a username login name screen name nickname and or handle. In some embodiments a first plurality of datasets may be associated with a plurality of computing device users.

Associating the first dataset with the user of user computing device may enable the first dataset to be used as appending data to be appended to other data associated with the user and or as a dataset that is enhanced by the addition of appending data from one or more other sources. Data included in the first dataset may be useful alone and or in conjunction with additional data for purposes of researching and or contacting prospective or current customers of commercial goods and or services prospective or current donors to not for profit organizations social organizations and or political organizations and or prospective or current consumers of issue based information. In some embodiments the first dataset may be modified through analysis comparison and appendation with additional data associated with the user to identify additional information and characteristics associated with the user.

At step one or more of the systems described herein may identify a second dataset associated with the user. For example at step identifying module may as part of first computing subsystem in identify a second dataset associated with the user of user computing device . The second dataset associated with the user may be obtained through any suitable source. For example data in the second dataset may be obtained by searching one or more databases for data associated with one or more identifiers associated with the user. For example various public and or private databases such as databases accessible via network and or internally within first computing subsystem and or second computing subsystem may be searched for data associated the user s name. According to some embodiments a second plurality of datasets associated with a plurality of computing device users may be identified.

In some examples public and or private databases may be searched for data associated with any suitable user identifier such as without limitation a phone number IP address membership number account number and or an on line pseudonym associated with the user including for example a username login name screen name nickname and or handle. According to at least one embodiment data identified by identifying module may be filtered based on characteristics of the data and or based on the source of the data. In some embodiments similar and or duplicative data from one or more sources may be merged into the second dataset and or filtered out so as to not be redundantly included in the second dataset.

At step one or more of the systems described herein may append the second dataset to the first dataset to generate an appended dataset. For example appending module may append the second dataset to the first dataset to generate an appended dataset associated with the user of user computing device . The appended dataset may be utilized by first computing subsystem and or second computing subsystem and or may be transferred to another computing system. In some embodiments at least one correlation between an issue specific data element and at least a portion of a second plurality of datasets may be determined.

According to various embodiments the appended dataset may be used for purposes of researching or contacting prospective or current consumers of commercial goods and or services researching or contacting prospective or current users of free or freemium products and or researching or contacting prospective and current donors to not for profit organizations social organizations. The appended dataset may be used for researching or contacting prospective consumers of political information for purposes of effecting the outcome of an election the passage of legislation or other means of effecting the make up of a political body and or outcome of an event by which statutes can be enacted legislation proposed and or government resources allocated.

According to some embodiments the appended dataset may be useful for targeting voter registration and turnout records non profit donation political contribution and consumer data records polls surveys commercially available personal data and all other means of obtaining data relevant to 1 targeting prospective consumers of political information for fundraising persuasion engagement communication and voter turnout 2 promoting a product or service and or 3 recruiting supporters for various non profit or social welfare causes.

In some embodiments as will be described in further detail below the appended dataset may subsequently be manipulated through electronic means including but not limited to online web based interfaces accessed via computer and or any other mechanical or electrical device or information storage and retrieval system software that can be installed on any computer or any other mechanical or electrical device or information storage and retrieval system and or a computing device or any other mechanical or electrical device or information storage and retrieval system manufactured for the storage retrieval and manipulation of data including but not limited to computer hardware software handheld or portable computing devices which employ binary nonbinary quantum or extra or interdimensional means of data or information transmittal.

According to various embodiments obtaining and utilizing appending and or appended data may include without limitation 1 obtaining transmitted data transmitted by one or more means as outlined above 2 matching appending merging enhancing and or otherwise augmenting the obtained data with existing data records 3 formatting sorting filtering or otherwise manipulating the data and 4 delivering the appended data to other end users.

Obtaining the data may include obtaining data originating as an SMS MMS or other messaging or digital transaction means from a computing communication or other information storage and retrieval system or device based on an act of a device owner subscriber or authorized user engaging in a transaction as outlined above to including but not limited to telephone numbers IP addresses unique device IDs other digital signatures or unique identifying characteristics obtained through the transmittal of data or information.

Matching appending merging enhancing and or otherwise augmenting the appending data may be accomplished using for example an automated data or information computation storage or retrieval system. The appending data may be matched appended merged enhanced and or otherwise augmented with any record or information germane to the targeting and or sorting the information of current or prospective consumers users customers supporters or consumers of political information for fundraising persuasion engagement communication dissemination of information and or voter turnout information. Such records and or information may include any suitable information including without limitation the name of an owner subscriber or authorized user an address additional contact information voter registration records voter participation records non profit donation records political contribution records demographic data consumer data online behavioral data online profile and personal data survey responses and or any other data germane to targeting prospective consumers of political information for fundraising persuasion engagement communication and or voter turnout.

Data utilized herein may be derived from the transmittal of data via any of the means described herein and or via for example an automated telephonic application such as a robocall application a predictive dialing application and or an Interactive Voice Response IVR application any suitable application that monitors captures and or extracts transactions communications posts and or any other activity related to social media sites accounts and or pages without limitation and or via online tracking software and or browser based analytic software.

In some examples the appending data may subsequently be formatted sorted filtered or otherwise manipulated by means of electronic mechanical or other means for purposes of identifying or grouping prospective consumers of retail products and or services and or consumers of political or other issue based information for fundraising persuasion engagement communication dissemination of information and or voter turnout for the purposes as outlined above

The appending and or appended data may subsequently be delivered to organizations and individuals seeking to use it for the purposes outlined above. Such data may be delivered via an information storage and retrieval system that can be accessed by or downloaded onto desktop laptop and mobile computing and or communications platforms accessed by software application or any other information storage or retrieval systems.

As illustrated in at block a user may initiate a transaction and or a communication. For example a user of user computing device may initiate a transaction and or a communication via network . According to various embodiments the user may utilize an interface such as a graphical user interface GUI presented by user computing device to request a transfer of monetary funds via network . Such transaction and or communication may be directed to first computing subsystem and or to another computing subsystem e.g. second computing subsystem .

The transaction and or communication may be initiated in response to an invitation. For example a user of user computing device may initiate the transaction and or communication in response to an issue specific invitation. An issue specific invitation may include an issue specific communication received by a user that provides the user with connection information for responding to the communication. The issue specific communication may comprise for example any suitable communication such as an advertisement notice and or other suitable direct or indirect contact related to a particular issue cause topic individual entity and or event without limitation. According to at least one embodiment a user may for example receive a communication e.g. television radio web page email text etc. inviting the user to respond by donating money for an issue specific cause e.g. to support the candidacy of a political candidate . For example the user may be invited to transfer funds to a specified telephone number via a text to donate transaction. The user may further be instructed to include text in a transaction and or communication related to an issue specific invitation that the user is responding to. For example in responding to an issue specific invitation a user may include a keyword highlighted in the issue specific invitation within the body of a text message sent by user computing device thereby alerting a recipient of the text message that the user is initiating a transaction related to the issue specific invitation.

The user may initiate any suitable type of transaction and or communication without limitation. According to some embodiments a transaction initiated by the user may include for example a transaction including without limitation a direct carrier billing transaction a text to give transaction a text to donate transaction a text to purchase transaction a text to contribute transaction a text to sign up transaction a text to purchase transaction a text to vote transaction a text to be billed transaction a text to join transaction a text to opt in transaction a text to respond transaction a share to donate transaction a post to donate transaction a tweet to donate transaction a respond to donate transaction and or any other suitable transaction. According to various embodiments a user computing device such as user computing device that transmits the transaction and or communication may also include an application programming interface for facilitating communication between various applications installed on the computing device.

The transaction and or communication initiated by the user may be transmitted over a network via any suitable type of transmission service or means without limitation. For example the transaction and or communication may be initiated by the user and transmitted from user computing device as data via for example a short message service a multimedia messaging service a smart messaging service an extended message service an instant messaging service an email service a message transmittal application a message response capture application a social media application programming interface a share to donate application programming interface a post to donate application programming interface a tweet to donate application programming interface a social media stream capture application a user post application a user response application a user sharing application and or any other suitable telephony based means of data transmission.

Blocks illustrate exemplary paths for transmitting the transaction and or communication initiated in block . For example the user initiated transaction and or communication may be transmitted from computing device to another computing device e.g. computing subsystem and or second computing subsystem by at least one of a wireless carrier a wired data network provider a wireless data network provider an SMS MMS gateway aggregator a social media application an undefined user transaction interface a digital communication facilitation medium and or any other suitable data transmission service or provider. Routing of the transaction and or communication through one of the illustrated paths block may be conducted for example by routing module of first computing subsystem .

According to some embodiments user transaction and or communication data may also be transmitted from user computing device via for example a physiologically integrated data transmittal device application and or application programming interface integrated into one s person and or via a system for data transmittal that is worn integrated into a textile and or otherwise worn or transported on one s person. In additional embodiments user transaction and or communication data may be transmitted from user computing device via by way of example an operation within an application a touchless data transmittal device a wired or wireless home or office appliance a wired or wireless home network a wired or wireless vehicle network a social media message a social media application programming interface and or any other suitable form by which an individual can through a digital or analog cellular data network and or the transmittal of data or information by binary nonbinary quantum or extradimensional and or or other means transmit data or communications without limitation.

User transaction and or communication data transmitted via one or more of blocks may be received at a preliminary aggregation point . Preliminary aggregation point may comprise for example a database configured to receive at least a portion of the user transaction and or communication data. In some embodiments preliminary aggregation point may for example comprise a database e.g. database located on first computing subsystem second computing subsystem and or any computing subsystem connected to network . As will be described in further detail below preliminary aggregation point may also receive data from additional sources such data may be aggregated with the user transaction and or communication data received from for example user computing device .

At block a user dataset e.g. a first dataset may be generated by for example generating module of first computing subsystem . In at least one embodiment detecting module may detect that a first transaction and or communication request was made by user computing device . For example detecting module may detect that user computing device initiated a first transaction and or communication block that a data transmission service has transmitted transaction and or communication data block and or that transaction and or communication data has been received by a computing subsystem e.g. preliminary aggregation point .

The transmitted transaction and or communication data may be used to generate a dataset associated with the user such as a first dataset based on the transaction and or communication request. The transmitted transaction and or communication data may for example provide information related to a user associated with a user computing device from which the transaction and or communication data was sent. In some embodiments the transmitted transaction and or communication data may include identifiers and or characteristics associated with the user.

At block user data needs may be assessed by for example analyzing module of first computing subsystem . Such assessment may include assessing what data is or is not included in the first dataset generated at block from the data received and or stored at preliminary aggregation point . The assessment may provide an indication of data types included and or not included in the first dataset. The assessment of the user data needs may indicate what types of data are desirable for appending to the first dataset. The assessment may also indicate which sources to request additional information from based on desirable data determined to not be included in the first dataset.

Additionally the assessment may provide information useful for determining whether or not to append data to the first dataset. For example if the user data in the first dataset does not include certain threshold user characteristics specified in advance the assessment may result in a determination that the first dataset will not be appended with additional data and or that the first dataset will not be further processed or utilized. For example system may continue processing the first dataset if at block the user data in the first dataset indicates that the user is interested in a particular issue such as a political issue on the contrary system may discontinue processing the first dataset if the user is determined to not be interested in the political issue.

At block the dataset may be merged with additional data. For example based on the assessment of user data needs in block identifying module of first computing subsystem may identify one or more data sources to query for additional data related to the user and or the first dataset. In some embodiments the same databases may be queried in all cases to identify information related to various users and or various datasets. In some examples only specific types of information related to the user and or the first dataset may be requested from the databases.

Data sources A D illustrated in represent various data sources that store various types of user data and from which additional data may be requested. One or more of data sources A D may be located in first computing subsystem and or second computing subsystem of system . Additionally or alternatively one or more of data sources A D may be external to first computing subsystem and or second computing subsystem of system . For example at least one of data sources A D may be located on one or more servers connected to network . As shown in data associated with the user and or the first dataset may for example be requested and or retrieved from cell phone data source A voter data source B consumer data source C one or more supplemental data source s D and or from any other suitable data source without limitation.

According to at least one embodiment data received from one or more of data sources A D may be identified by identifying module . For example a second dataset including data related to consumer preferences of the user may be received and identified by identifying module of first computing subsystem . At block the second data set may be appended to the first dataset by appending module so as to generate an appended dataset associated with the user. In some embodiments additional datasets may be received from at least one data source A D such additional datasets may be appended to the first dataset and or the second dataset to form the appended dataset at block .

According to various embodiments the appended dataset formed at block may be transferred to and or stored in a storage location e.g. database . In some examples appended data may be transferred from storage location back to preliminary aggregation point where data from the user initiated transaction may be received aggregated and or stored. Such data may be combined with data subsequently received at preliminary aggregation point . For example the appended data transferred to preliminary aggregation point may be aggregated with additional data subsequently received from the user such aggregated data may be combined with the subsequently received user data to generate a subsequent user dataset at block thus reducing an amount of data that may need to be appended to the subsequent user dataset at block .

The appended data in storage location may also be accessed via an interface . Interface may include any suitable interface for interacting with a device storing the appended data. For example interface may include an application programming interface API an application binary interface and or any other suitable type of interface may be utilized by a computing device to retrieve the appended data from storage location . Interface may be utilized by at least one of first computing subsystem and or second computing subsystem to retrieve the appended data. Alternatively one or more computing devices external to system may obtain access to the appended data via interface which may according to some embodiments comprise a proprietary interface.

According to at least one example the appended dataset may be transmitted to another storage location such as a database e.g. database located on first computing subsystem and or second computing subsystem . In some embodiments as illustrated in the appended dataset may be exported via interface or any other suitable transmission route to another storage location such as a user database for storing various user data located on one or more computing devices and or servers located external to first computing subsystem and or second computing subsystem .

In various embodiments the appended dataset may be accessed via interface for any suitable purpose without limitation. For example as illustrated at block of and as will be described in greater detail below the appended dataset may be accessed via interface for purposes of one or more activities including without limitation formatting analyzing sorting filtering selecting and or otherwise manipulating at least a portion of the appended data based on one or more attributes of the appended dataset.

According to some embodiments at block of records similar and or otherwise related to those identified by the analysis sorting selection by attributes and or other procedures carried out at block may be requested from at least one computing device and or system. Additionally records predicted to perform similarly to those identified at block and or records useful to certain analyses of at least a portion of the appended dataset may be requested at block . Such records may be useful for further analysis and or processing of the appended dataset and or for identification analysis and or modification of various user attributes.

At block one or more follow up communications to audiences having sorted and or selected attributes may be scheduled. For example the analysis sorting selection by attributes and or other procedures carried out at block may provide information useful for identifying potential users that may be interested in for example a particular product or political issue. Additionally in at least one embodiment at least one follow up communication with the user associated with the appended user set may be scheduled.

As illustrated in at block a user may initiate a transaction and or a communication. For example a user of user computing device may initiate a transaction and or a communication via network . The transaction and or communication may be initiated in response to an invitation. For example a user of user computing device may initiate the transaction and or communication in response to an issue specific invitation.

The transaction and or communication initiated by the user may be transmitted over a network via any suitable type of transmission service or means without limitation. Blocks illustrate exemplary paths for transmitting the transaction and or communication initiated in block . For example the user initiated transaction and or communication may be transmitted from computing device to another computing device e.g. computing subsystem and or second computing subsystem by at least one of a wireless carrier a wired data network provider a wireless data network provider an SMS MMS gateway aggregator a social media application an undefined user transaction interface a digital communication facilitation medium and or any other suitable data transmission service or provider.

User transaction and or communication data transmitted via one or more of blocks may be received by a user data storage device comprising for example a database configured to receive at least a portion of the user transaction and or communication data.

At block a user dataset e.g. a first dataset may be generated by for example generating module of first computing subsystem . The transmitted transaction and or communication data may be used to generate a dataset associated with the user such as a first dataset based on the transaction and or communication request. The first dataset generated at block may be accessed via an interface . Interface may include any suitable interface such as an application programming interface API an application binary interface and or any other suitable type of interface utilized by a computing device to retrieve the first dataset. Interface may be utilized by at least one of first computing subsystem and or second computing subsystem to retrieve the appended data. Alternatively one or more computing devices external to system may obtain access to the appended data via interface which may according to some embodiments comprise a proprietary interface.

At block the first dataset may be obtained via interface and data enhancement needs and or inputs may be determined by for example analysis module of first computing subsystem . Such determination may include assessing what data is or is not included in the first dataset generated at block . The assessment may provide an indication of data types included and or not included in the first dataset. The assessment of the user data needs may indicate what types of data are desirable for appending to the first dataset. The assessment may also indicate which sources to request additional information from based on desirable data determined to not be included in the first dataset. Additionally the determination block may provide information useful for determining whether or not to append data to and or otherwise enhance the first dataset.

At block at least a portion of the first dataset that is to be appended with additional data and or otherwise enhanced may be transferred to an aggregation database as illustrated in . Aggregation database may comprise for example a database e.g. database located on first computing subsystem second computing subsystem and or any computing subsystem connected to network . As will be described in further detail below aggregation database may also receive data from additional sources such data may be aggregated with the first dataset received from for example user computing device .

At block the dataset may be merged with additional data. For example based on the data enhancement needs and or inputs determined in block identifying module of first computing subsystem may identify one or more data sources to query for additional data related to the user and or the first dataset.

Data sources A D illustrated in represent various data sources that store various types of user data and from which additional data may be requested. One or more of data sources A D may be located in first computing subsystem and or second computing subsystem of system . Additionally or alternatively one or more of data sources A D may be external to first computing subsystem and or second computing subsystem of system . For example at least one of data sources A D may be located on one or more servers connected to network . As shown in data associated with the user and or the first dataset may for example be requested and or retrieved from cell phone data source A voter data source B consumer data source C one or more supplemental data source s D and or from any other suitable data source without limitation.

According to at least one embodiment data received from one or more of data sources A D may be identified by identifying module . For example a second dataset including data related to consumer preferences of the user may be received and identified by identifying module of first computing subsystem . At block the second data set may be appended to the first dataset by appending module so as to generate an appended dataset associated with the user. In some embodiments additional datasets may be received from at least one data source A D such additional datasets may be appended to the first dataset and or the second dataset to form the appended dataset at block .

According to various embodiments the appended dataset formed at block may be transferred to and or stored in a storage location e.g. database which is accessible via interface . In some examples as illustrated in storage location may be in periodic or continuous communication with aggregation database . In some examples at least a portion of the appended dataset may be transferred from storage location back to aggregation database . Such data may be combined with data subsequently received at aggregation database . Additionally according to at least one example the appended dataset may be transmitted to another storage location such as a database e.g. database located on first computing subsystem and or second computing subsystem .

In various embodiments the appended dataset stored at storage location may be accessed via interface for any suitable purpose without limitation. For example as illustrated at block of the appended dataset may be accessed via interface for purposes of one or more activities including without limitation formatting analyzing sorting filtering selecting and or otherwise manipulating at least a portion of the appended data based on one or more attributes of the appended dataset.

At block one or more follow up communications to audiences having sorted and or selected attributes may be scheduled. For example the analysis sorting selection by attributes and or other procedures carried out at block may provide information useful for identifying potential users that may be interested in for example a particular product or issue such as a political issue. Additionally in at least one embodiment at least one follow up communication with the user associated with the appended user set may be scheduled.

According to some embodiments at block of records similar and or otherwise related to those identified by the analysis sorting selection by attributes and or other procedures carried out at block may be requested from at least one computing device and or system. Additionally records predicted to perform similarly to those identified at block and or records useful to certain analyses of at least a portion of the appended dataset may be requested at block . Such records may be useful for further analysis and processing of the appended dataset and or for identification analysis and or modification of various user characteristics.

As illustrated in at block a user may initiate a transaction and or a communication. For example a user of user computing device may initiate a transaction and or a communication via network . The transaction and or communication may be initiated in response to an invitation. For example a user of user computing device may initiate the transaction and or communication in response to an issue specific invitation.

The transaction and or communication initiated by the user may be transmitted over a network via any suitable type of transmission service or means without limitation. Blocks illustrate exemplary paths for transmitting the transaction and or communication initiated in block . For example the user initiated transaction and or communication may be transmitted from computing device to another computing device e.g. computing subsystem and or second computing subsystem by at least one of a wireless carrier a wired data network provider a wireless data network provider an SMS MMS gateway aggregator a social media application an undefined user transaction interface a digital communication facilitation medium and or any other suitable data transmission service or provider.

User transaction and or communication data transmitted via one or more of blocks may be received by a user data storage device comprising for example a database configured to receive at least a portion of the user transaction and or communication data.

At block a user dataset e.g. a first dataset may be generated by for example generating module of first computing subsystem . The transmitted transaction and or communication data may be used to generate a dataset associated with the user such as a first dataset based on the transaction and or communication request. At block data enhancement needs and or inputs may be determined by for example analysis module of first computing subsystem . Such determination may include assessing what data is or is not included in the first dataset generated at block .

At block at least a portion of the first dataset that is to be appended with additional data and or otherwise enhanced may be transferred to an aggregation database as illustrated in . Aggregation database may comprise for example a database e.g. database located on first computing subsystem second computing subsystem and or any computing subsystem connected to network . As will be described in further detail below aggregation database may also receive data from additional sources such data may be aggregated with the first dataset received from for example user computing device . Aggregation database may be in periodic or continuous communication with a storage location which stores appended data. Additionally storage location may receive an appended dataset from data merged at block . For example based on the data enhancement needs and or inputs determined in block identifying module of first computing subsystem may identify one or more data sources to query for additional data related to the user and or the first dataset.

Data sources A D illustrated in represent various data sources that store various types of user data and from which additional data may be requested. As shown in data associated with the user and or the first dataset may for example be requested and or retrieved from cell phone data source A voter data source B consumer data source C supplemental data source s D and or from any other suitable data source without limitation. According to at least one embodiment a second dataset including data related to consumer preferences of the user may be received from at least one of data sources A D and identified by identifying module of first computing subsystem . At block the second data set may be appended to the first dataset by appending module so as to generate an appended dataset associated with the user.

The appended dataset formed at block may be transferred to and or stored in storage location e.g. database which is accessible via interface . In some examples appended data may be transferred from storage location back to user data storage device . Such data may for example be combined with data subsequently received at user data storage device .

The appended dataset stored at storage location may be accessed via an interface which may include any suitable interface such as an application programming interface API an application binary interface and or any other suitable type of interface utilized by a computing device to retrieve the first dataset.

At block one or more follow up communications to audiences having sorted and or selected attributes may be scheduled. For example the analysis sorting selection by attributes and or other procedures carried out at block may provide information useful for identifying potential users that may be interested in for example a particular product or political issue. Additionally in at least one embodiment at least one follow up communication with the user associated with the appended user set may be scheduled.

According to some embodiments at block of records similar and or otherwise related to those identified by the analysis sorting selection by attributes and or other procedures carried out at block may be requested from at least one computing device and or system. Additionally records predicted to perform similarly to those identified at block and or records useful to certain analyses of at least a portion of the appended dataset may be requested at block . Such records may be useful for further analysis and processing of the appended dataset and or for identification analysis and or modification of various user characteristics.

At block one or more follow up communications to audiences having sorted and or selected attributes may be scheduled. For example the analysis sorting selection by attributes and or other procedures carried out at block may provide information useful for identifying potential users that may be interested in for example a particular product or political issue. Additionally in at least one embodiment at least one follow up communication with the user associated with the appended user set may be scheduled.

As illustrated in at step a user or respondent initiated transaction may be detected. For example detecting module may as part of computing device in detect a transaction request transmitted from user computing device in response to an issue specific invitation. At step the transaction initiated in step may be routed through an appropriate service such as for example at least one of a wireless carrier a wired data network provider a wireless data network provider an SMS MMS gateway aggregator a social media application an undefined user transaction interface a digital communication facilitation medium and or any other suitable data transmission service or provider.

At step user or respondent data generated by the transaction may be received by for example for example a computing device e.g. first computing subsystem and or second computing subsystem configured to receive at least a portion of the user transaction and or communication data. Such data may be utilized to generate a dataset such as a first dataset associated with the user or respondent. At step the received respondent data may be transmitted to a data storage device e.g. database . At step additional data needs may be determined by for example analysis module of first computing subsystem . Such assessment may include assessing what data is or is not included in the first dataset. Based on the assessment additional data needs such as for example user name address voter records consumer preference and or any other characteristics and or identifying data associated with the user may be determined.

At step transaction derived respondent data such as the first dataset may be appended and or otherwise enhanced with additional data data from records requested according to the additional data needs determined at step . For example one or more additional datasets may be appended to the first dataset to form an appended and or enhanced dataset. At step the appended and or enhanced dataset may be delivered to an end user such as an individual and or organization seeking to utilize such information in for example targeted outreach fundraising and or marketing communications.

At step a request for records predicted to yield similar results and or results useful to the analysis of one or more datasets may be received. For example a system client may request records from first computing subsystem associated with additional users with such records including data similar to that included in the appended dataset. According to some embodiments data in such requested records may be predictive of similarities in various attributes and or characteristics associated with the additional users and those attributes and or characteristics identified in the appended dataset generated at step .

At step a query may be made based on certain inputs and or algorithms such as inputs and or algorithms associated with the request at step for records predicted to yield similar results and or results useful to the analysis of one or more datasets. The query may for example be directed to a database e.g. database within first computing subsystem and or second computing subsystem . According to some embodiments the query may be directed one or more other databases e.g. databases A D illustrated in . At step records obtained in response to the query and or records contained within the appended dataset may be delivered for use in targeted communications such as for example targeted outreach fundraising and or marketing communications.

As shown in user data may be enhanced through analysis and or modeling of the data in conjunction with additional data such as records requested at block of . As illustrated in at step a request for records predicted to yield similar results useful for analysis of at least one dataset may be detected. For example a request may be made by a computing device e.g. analyzing module for various categories of records containing data and or analysis of data associated with one or more individuals. Such records may be requested by for example querying at least one database for records meeting specified criteria.

For example analyzing module may make a request for records having characteristics similar and or otherwise related to characteristics of a dataset e.g. an appended dataset derived from a user initiated transaction and or communication. The request may also be for data records that are predicted to yield similar results as a dataset such as the appended dataset and or data records that are useful to certain analyses of at least a portion of the appended dataset. Such records may be useful for further analysis and processing of the appended dataset and or for identification analysis and or modification of various user characteristics associated with the appended dataset and or one or more other datasets. For example a request may return records associated with a set of individuals who would normally respond to certain issue specific invitations e.g. Issue 1 discussed in relation to the records associated with the set of individuals may for example be utilized for analysis and or modeling.

According to certain embodiments a request for records that are not predicted to yield similar results useful for analysis of at least one dataset may be made in addition to and or alternatively to step . Such a request may for example return records associated with a set of individuals who would not normally respond to certain issue specific invitations e.g. Issue 1 discussed in relation to . Data related to individuals who would not normally respond to a certain issue specific invitation may for example enable follow up analysis and or outreach to test responses to different messages directed to the set of users who would not normally respond. In some examples individuals who would not normally respond to certain issue specific invitations may be specifically excluded from future communication and or contact related to such issues. In at least one embodiment individuals may be either targeted or excluded based not just on their propensity to behave similarly to a respondent group but also based on their propensity to behave differently than the respondent group such individuals that are determined to behave differently than the respondent group may for example be identified for alternative message testing and or or targeting or for exclusion from future message testing and or targeting.

At step a dataset for modeling i.e. a modeling dataset may be defined. Such a modeling dataset may comprise for example one or more datasets e.g. the appended data set that are associated with attributes of one or more users e.g. a user of computing device . According to at least one embodiment the modeling dataset may be defined prior to transmitting the records request made at step .

At step the dataset for modeling may be analyzed. For example analyzing module may analyze the modeling dataset to determine various characteristics and or attributes of the dataset. Various characteristics and or attributes of the modeling dataset may be weighted based on relevance and or other determining criteria previously input and utilized by analyzing module . Correlations between various data attributes may also be determined during the analysis.

At step a modeling formula based on analysis of the modeling dataset may be selected and or generated. Additionally a model utilizing the modeling formula may be newly generated and or modified. For example following analysis of the modeling data analyzing module may select from among one or more modeling formulas based on certain predefined criteria. According to some embodiments a modeling formula may be newly generated based on the analysis of the modeling data. The modeling formula may comprise any suitable formula designed to yield desired information related to modeled user data such as dataset and or records related to one or more users. The modeling formula may include without limitation a predictive and or iterative algorithm configured to utilize and or determine attribute co occurrence data attribute frequency data attribute correlation data and or attribute weighting factors.

At step parameters for data e.g. records to be requested may be defined. For example record data parameters may be selected from a set of stored pre defined parameters. Parameters may be defined for instance to include only records associated with a subset of overall respondents initially identified and or modeled in the modeling dataset. For example parameters may identify characteristics of various user records so as to only include records exhibiting the identified characteristics while excluding user records not exhibiting the identified characteristics from the modeling and or analysis. In at least one embodiment user records falling outside the identified parameters may be modeled under a separate modeling formula. In some embodiments parameters may be automatically and or manually selected. For example an end user may select and or input appropriate parameters. In at least one embodiment the modeling formula may be applied to the modeling dataset to determine the appropriate parameters.

At step records matching the defined parameter criteria may be requested. For example analyzing module may query one or more databases for appropriate records matching the defined parameters. At step records returned in response to the records request may be analyzed for errors. For example the returned records may be cross checked with similar records to determine if certain data points in the returned records conflict with known information. For example a returned record having a user age that conflicts with a known age for the same user may be determined to contain an erroneous user age. Errors and or possible errors identified in the returned records may be removed or otherwise noted and or flagged by for example analyzing module .

At step clean records may be delivered for analysis and or otherwise used in targeted communications. For example records having errors removed may be utilized in for example targeted outreach fundraising and or marketing communications. Such records may also be further analyzed for various attributes and or correlations. The returned records may also be utilized in further data modeling.

As illustrated in at block a user may initiate a transaction and or a communication. For example a user of user computing device may initiate a transaction and or a communication via network . The transaction and or communication may be initiated in response to an invitation. For example a user of user computing device may initiate the transaction and or communication in response to an issue specific invitation.

The transaction and or communication initiated by the user may be transmitted over a network via any suitable type of transmission service or means without limitation. Blocks illustrate exemplary paths for transmitting the transaction and or communication initiated in block . For example the user initiated transaction and or communication may be transmitted from computing device to another computing device e.g. computing subsystem and or second computing subsystem by at least one of a wireless carrier a wired data network provider a wireless data network provider an SMS MMS gateway aggregator a social media application an undefined user transaction interface a digital communication facilitation medium and or any other suitable data transmission service or provider.

User transaction and or communication data transmitted via one or more of blocks may be received at a preliminary aggregation point . Preliminary aggregation point may comprise for example a database configured to receive at least a portion of the user transaction and or communication data. In some embodiments the preliminary aggregation point may for example comprise a database e.g. database located on first computing subsystem second computing subsystem and or any computing subsystem connected to network .

At block a user dataset e.g. a first dataset may be generated by for example generating module of first computing subsystem . The transmitted transaction and or communication data may be used to generate a dataset associated with the user such as a first dataset based on the transaction and or communication request. At block user data needs may be assessed by for example analyzing module of first computing subsystem . Such assessment may include assessing what data is or is not included in the first dataset generated at block from the data received and or stored at preliminary aggregation point .

At block the dataset may be merged with additional data. For example based on the assessment of user data needs in block identifying module of first computing subsystem may identify one or more data sources to query for additional data related to the user and or the first dataset. Data sources A D illustrated in represent various data sources that store various types of user data and from which additional data may be requested. As shown in data associated with the user and or the first dataset may for example be requested and or retrieved from cell phone data source A voter data source B consumer data source C one or more supplemental data source s D and or from any other suitable data source without limitation. According to at least one embodiment a second dataset including data related to consumer preferences of the user may be received from at least one of data sources A D and identified by identifying module of first computing subsystem . At block the second data set may be appended to the first dataset by appending module so as to generate an appended dataset associated with the user.

According to various embodiments the appended dataset formed at block may be transferred to and or stored in a storage location e.g. database . In some examples appended data may be transferred from storage location back to preliminary aggregation point where data from the user initiated transaction is received aggregated and or stored. Such data may be combined with data subsequently received at preliminary aggregation point . The appended data in storage location may also be accessed via an interface . Interface may include any suitable interface for interacting with a device storing the appended data. For example interface may include an application programming interface API an application binary interface and or any other suitable type of interface may be utilized by a computing device to retrieve the appended data from storage location .

According to at least one example the appended dataset may be transmitted to another storage location such as a database e.g. database located on first computing subsystem and or second computing subsystem . In additional embodiments as illustrated in at block the appended dataset may be exported via interface or any other suitable transmission route to another storage location such as a user database for storing various user data located on one or more computing devices and or servers located external to first computing subsystem and or second computing subsystem .

In various embodiments the appended dataset may be accessed via interface for any suitable purposes without limitation. For example as illustrated at block of and as will be described in greater detail below the appended dataset may be accessed via interface for purposes of one or more activities including without limitation formatting analyzing sorting filtering selecting and or otherwise manipulating at least a portion of the appended data based on one or more attributes of the appended dataset.

According to some embodiments at block of records similar and or otherwise related to those identified by the analysis sorting selection by attributes and or other procedures carried out at block may be requested from at least one computing device and or system. Additionally records predicted to perform similarly to those identified at block and or records useful to certain analyses of at least a portion of the appended dataset may be requested at block . Such records may be useful for further analysis and processing of the appended dataset and or for identification analysis and or modification of various user characteristics. Additionally the records requested at block may be received and utilized in conjunction with the first dataset generated at block for assessing user data needs at block .

At block one or more follow up communications to audiences having sorted and or selected attributes may be scheduled. For example the analysis sorting selection by attributes and or other suitable procedures carried out at block may provide information useful for identifying potential users that may be interested in for example a particular product or political issue. Additionally in at least one embodiment at least one follow up communication with the user associated with the appended user set may be scheduled.

As illustrated in at step a spokesman appearing on television may talk about Issue 1. Issue 1 may comprise for example one or more specified issues causes topics individuals entities and or events without limitation. At step the spokesman may indicate a means for requesting a transaction and or communication specifically related to Issue 1 thereby presenting television viewers with an issue specific invitation. For example the spokesman may say If you want to get involved text Issue 1 to 77777. 

In response to the issue specific invitation at step one or more viewers e.g. users of user computing devices may respond to the issue specific invitation by sending a communication in the manner specified by the spokesman thereby initiating a communication request in response to the issue specific invitation. As illustrated in for example 5000 people may send an SMS message that reads Issue 1 to number 77777. The SMS text responses from the 5000 people may be received by for example receiving module of first computing subsystem and or by second computing subsystem . First computing subsystem may detect receipt of the SMS text responses at first computing subsystem and or at second computing subsystem .

According to some examples upon receipt of the SMS text responses from the 5000 individuals at least some of the 5000 respondents may be sent a follow up message from for example first computing subsystem and or second computing subsystem . For example an email message may be sent to and received by each of the 5000 individuals the email may for example instruct the recipients to click an HTML link and make a monetary donation e.g. 10 . Out of all the recipients of the email at least some of the individuals may respond by making a donation. For example 2000 of the 5000 individuals responding to the television advertisement may subsequently make a 10 donation in response to the email. By clicking the HTML link and filling out a form to make the donation each of the 2000 individuals initiates a monetary transaction request. Detecting module of first computing subsystem for example may detect that the transaction requests have been initiated from various user computing devices.

At step various attributes of the individuals responding to the emails by making donations may be analyzed. For example first computing subsystem and or second computing subsystem may analyze the attributes associated with each of the users in comparison with other user attributes. In some examples analyzing module may analyze for patterns and or associations between various attributes of any one or more of the respondents. At least one of the attributes analyzed may include for example respondents interest in and or propensity to contribute to Issue 1. At step the respondents may be segmented based on for example response behavior and or attribute set. For example respondents that donated money in response to the email may be segmented into a different group than those that merely responded to the text message but did not donate.

At step follow up messaging with the respondents may be scheduled with the respondents. For example the respondents may be given an opportunity to opt in to further communications via any suitable channels including digital channels and or legacy channels. Such further communications may be catered to specific interests and or attributes of each segment of respondents. For example respondents may opt in to receive email and or SMS text notifications related to Issue 1. Additionally respondents that opt in may receive communications related to issues that are determined via the analysis at step or otherwise to likely be of interest to the particular respondents based on their individual set of user attributes.

In some examples at step one or more databases may be queried for additional data related to various respondents. For example analysis module may query various databases for any desired information related to respondents including for example demographic records voter records consumer behavior records online activity and or any other suitable information. Information such as reports received in response to such queries may be utilized in the analysis of respondent attributes at step .

In some embodiments at step additional data such as records may for example be sought for targeted outreach fundraising marketing communications initiatives and or for any other suitable purposes. For example an organization may wish to correlate various respondent attributes to make determinations and or predictions concerning interests of various individuals and or to identify potential individuals for targeted outreach initiatives. At step data may be modeled in order to for example identify additional correlations between various user attributes to determine certain preferences of target groups of individuals and or to identify groups that may be interested in specific issues. For example analyzing module may assemble and model data received from the respondent initiated communications and or transactions in conjunction with additional data e.g. appending data received from databases in response to record queries to identify correlations between various respondent attributes.

In some embodiments at step records related to the modeling at step may be delivered to end users such as organizations for use in any suitable targeted outreach fundraising marketing communications initiatives and or other suitable purposes. For example such records may be utilized by organizations in conducting messaging outreach via any suitable channels such as legacy channels to individuals fitting certain messaging profiles identified in the records.

As illustrated in at step a campaign spokesman appearing on television may talk about Issue 1. Issue 1 may comprise for example one or more specified issues causes topics individuals entities and or events without limitation. According to at least one embodiment the campaign spokesman may be a spokesman for a political candidate and or political issue campaign. At step the campaign spokesman may indicate a means for requesting a transaction and or communication specifically related to Issue 1 thereby presenting television viewers with an issue specific invitation. For example the spokesman may say If you want to get involved text Issue 1 to 77777. 

In response to the issue specific invitation at step one or more viewers e.g. users of user computing devices may respond to the issue specific invitation by sending a communication in the manner specified by the spokesman thereby initiating a communication request in response to the issue specific invitation. As illustrated in for example 5000 people may send an SMS message that reads Issue 1 to number 77777. The SMS text responses from the 5000 people may be received by for example receiving module of first computing subsystem and or by second computing subsystem .

According to some examples upon receipt of the SMS text responses from the 5000 individuals at least some of the 5000 respondents may be sent a follow up message from for example first computing subsystem and or second computing subsystem . For example at step an email message may be sent to respondents whose computing device service providers e.g. cell phone providers do not allow direct to billing method payment processing. The email may for example instruct the recipients to click an HTML link and enter payment information for processing a monetary donation e.g. 10 . Out of all the recipients of the email at least some of the individuals may respond by making a donation.

Alternatively at step for respondents whose device service providers do allow direct to billing method payment processing e.g. text to donate etc. or for transactions for which the seller protocol allows respondents may be billed directly to the payment method for the device or application through which the transaction is being processed. For example by texting Issue 1 to 77777 using a cell phone a payment of 10 may be applied to a respondent s cell phone service bill and or directly to an account linked to the cell phone service account.

At step various attributes of the individuals responding to the emails by making donations and or of the individuals making direct to billing payment may be analyzed. At step the respondents may be segmented based on for example response behavior and or attribute set. At step follow up messaging with the respondents may be scheduled with the respondents.

In some examples at step one or more databases may be queried for additional data related to various respondents. For example analysis module may query various databases for any desired information related to respondents including for example demographic records voter records consumer behavior records online activity and or any other suitable information. Information such as reports received in response to such queries may be utilized in the analysis of respondent attributes at step .

At step additional data such as records may for example be sought for targeted outreach fundraising marketing communications initiatives and or for any other suitable purposes. At step data may be modeled in order to for example identify additional correlations between various user attributes to determine certain preferences of target groups of individuals and or to identify groups that may be interested in specific issues. For example analyzing module may assemble and model data received from the respondent initiated communications and or transactions e.g. billing in response to email or direct to billing in conjunction with additional data e.g. appending data received from databases in response to record queries to identify correlations between various respondent attributes. In some embodiments at step records related to the modeling at step may be delivered to end users such as organizations for use in any suitable targeted outreach fundraising marketing communications initiatives and or other suitable purposes.

As illustrated in at step a product may be advertised or otherwise appear in a place where a potential purchaser may view information about it. For example a billboard vendor product display media display e.g. television newspaper web page etc. and or any other suitable advertisement may display a product. According to at least one example the advertisement may indicate a means for requesting a transaction and or communication specifically related to the advertised product thereby presenting viewers with an issue specific and or product specific invitation. At step text accompanying the advertisement may say for example to Purchase Tweet productXYZ to ProductXYZ. 

In response to the issue specific product specific invitation at step one or more viewers e.g. users of user computing devices may respond to the issue specific invitation by initiating a communication and or transaction request via their respective computing devices in the manner specified in the advertisement. As illustrated in for example 5000 people may send a tweet productXYZ to Product XYZ via an appropriate application e.g. TWITTER . At step a record of message transmission e.g. posting of tweet on TWITTER may be captured. Records of the responses from the 5000 people may be received by for example receiving module of first computing subsystem and or by second computing subsystem .

At step respondents may be billed for a purchase of the advertised product by an application linked with a consumer and or donor payment method. For example an application may enable a charge to be applied to a respondent account for the cost of the advertised product along with any shipping or other fees based on the sent tweet directing the charge to be made. At step various attributes of the individuals responding to the emails by making donations and or of the individuals making direct to billing payment may be analyzed. At step the respondents may be segmented based on for example response behavior and or attribute set. At step follow up messaging with the respondents may be scheduled with the respondents.

In some examples at step one or more databases may be queried for additional data related to various respondents. For example analysis module may query various databases for any desired information related to respondents including for example demographic records voter records consumer behavior records online activity and or any other suitable information. Information such as reports received in response to such queries may be utilized in the analysis of respondent attributes at step .

At step additional data such as records may for example be sought for targeted outreach fundraising marketing communications initiatives and or for any other suitable purposes. At step data may be modeled in order to for example identify additional correlations between various user attributes to determine certain preferences of target groups of individuals and or to identify groups that may be interested in specific issues. For example analyzing module may assemble and model data received from the respondent initiated communications and or transactions e.g. billing in response to email or direct to billing in conjunction with additional data e.g. appending data received from databases in response to record queries to identify correlations between various respondent attributes. In some embodiments at step records related to the modeling at step may be delivered to end users such as organizations for use in any suitable targeted outreach fundraising marketing communications initiatives and or other suitable purposes.

As illustrated in at step a product may be advertised or otherwise appear in a place where a potential purchaser may view information about it. According to at least one example the advertisement may indicate a means for requesting a transaction and or communication specifically related to the advertised product thereby presenting viewers with an issue specific and or product specific invitation. At step text accompanying the advertisement may say for example to Purchase text ProductXYZ to 77777. 

In response to the issue specific product specific invitation at step one or more viewers e.g. users of user computing devices may respond to the issue specific invitation by initiating a communication and or transaction request via their respective computing devices in the manner specified in the advertisement. As illustrated in for example 5000 people may send an SMS text message that reads ProductXYZ to number 77777. The SMS text responses from the 5000 people may be received by for example receiving module of first computing subsystem and or by second computing subsystem . Detecting module of first computing subsystem may detect receipt of the SMS text responses at first computing subsystem and or at second computing subsystem .

At step an email message may be sent to respondents whose computing device service providers e.g. cell phone providers do not allow direct to billing method payment processing. The email may for example instruct the recipients to click an HTML link and enter payment information for processing payment for the purchased product. Alternatively at step for respondents whose device service providers do allow direct to billing method payment processing e.g. text to donate etc. or for transactions for which the seller protocol allows respondents may be billed directly to the payment method for the device or application through which the transaction is being processed. For example by texting ProductXYZ to 77777 using a cell phone a payment for the advertised product may be applied to a respondent s cell phone service bill and or directly to an account linked to the cell phone service account.

At step various attributes of the individuals responding to the emails by making donations and or of the individuals making direct to billing payment may be analyzed. At step the respondents may be segmented based on for example response behavior and or attribute set. At step follow up messaging with the respondents may be scheduled with the respondents.

In some examples at step one or more databases may be queried for additional data related to various respondents. For example analysis module may query various databases for any desired information related to respondents including for example demographic records voter records consumer behavior records online activity and or any other suitable information. Information such as reports received in response to such queries may be utilized in the analysis of respondent attributes at step .

At step additional data such as records may for example be sought for targeted outreach fundraising marketing communications initiatives and or for any other suitable purposes. At step data may be modeled in order to for example identify additional correlations between various user attributes to determine certain preferences of target groups of individuals and or to identify groups that may be interested in specific issues. For example analyzing module may assemble and model data received from the respondent initiated communications and or transactions e.g. billing in response to email or direct to billing in conjunction with additional data e.g. appending data received from databases in response to record queries to identify correlations between various respondent attributes. In some embodiments at step records related to the modeling at step may be delivered to end users such as organizations for use in any suitable targeted outreach fundraising marketing communications initiatives and or other suitable purposes.

As shown in user data may be enhanced through analysis and or modeling of the data in conjunction with additional data such as records requested at block of . As illustrated in at step a request for records predicted to yield similar results useful for analysis of at least one dataset may be detected. For example a request may be made by a computing device e.g. analyzing module for various categories of records containing data and or analysis of data associated with one or more individuals. Such records may be requested by for example querying at least one database for records meeting specified criteria. According to certain embodiments a request for records that are not predicted to yield similar results useful for analysis of at least one dataset may be made in addition to and or alternatively to step .

At step a dataset for modeling i.e. a modeling dataset may be defined. Such a modeling dataset may comprise for example one or more datasets e.g. the appended data set that are associated with attributes of one or more users e.g. a user of computing device . At step the dataset for modeling may be analyzed. For example analyzing module may analyze the modeling dataset to determine various characteristics and or attributes of the dataset.

At step a modeling formula based on analysis of the modeling dataset may be selected and or generated. For example following analysis of the modeling data analyzing module may select from among one or more modeling formulas based on certain predefined criteria. The modeling formula may include without limitation a predictive and or iterative algorithm configured to utilize and or determine attribute co occurrence data attribute frequency data attribute correlation data and or attribute weighting factors.

At step parameters for data e.g. records to be requested may be defined. At step records matching the defined parameter criteria may be requested. For example analyzing module may query one or more databases for appropriate records matching the defined parameters. At step records returned in response to the request may be analyzed for errors. At step clean records may be delivered for analysis and or used in targeted communications. For example records having errors removed may be utilized in for example targeted outreach fundraising and or marketing communications. Such records may also be further analyzed for various attributes and or correlations. The returned records may also be utilized in further data modeling.

According to some embodiments additional data may be obtained and utilized to modify the modeling formula and or one or more parameters associated with the modeling formula. For example at step targeted outreach fundraising and or marketing communications may be conducted. At step results of the targeted activities may be returned. For example results may be returned to analyzing module of first computing subsystem . At step the returned results may be analyzed. Subsequently at step the returned and analyzed results may be incorporated into the modeling formula and or into an algorithm for validation or adjustment of the modeling formula and or defined parameters. Steps may be repeated as often as necessary or desired in order to further refine the modeling formula so as to produce a more accurate and or predictive user data model.

In additional embodiments outreach to user populations having certain characteristics mirroring i.e. mirror populations those of respondents as described above may be conducted by one or more of the systems described herein. Mirror population respondents responding to the outreach activities may be captured enhanced and or appended with additional data. In some examples modeling criteria and or algorithms may be automatically enhanced with mirrored population response data points. According to at least one embodiment data indicating various user attributes behaviors attitudes potential to take certain actions purchase or not purchase certain goods or services hold certain beliefs or worldviews vote for or against certain political candidates or predict participation in the political process or elections may be correlated by one or more of the systems described herein.

According to at least one embodiment social media and or other available user accounts for identified respondents and or mirror population targets identified by various processes as outlined above may for example be targeted for auto follow auto friend and or targeted advertising and or other suitable outreach via any acceptable channel. For example identified individuals may be targeted for follow up via a suitable social media interface webservice and or other suitable platform interaction channel. Tracking data behavioral data interaction data lingual data semantic data and or sentiment data obtained through various interactions e.g. auto interactions auto follow etc may be captured. Captured data may then be integrated into respondent cluster modeling formulas.

According to various embodiments custom advertising messages information and or system generated interactions may be delivered to for example social media and or other suitable user accounts based on at least one of modeling clustering lingual sentiment and or behavioral data and or automated interactions. Such gathered and or utilized data may be used to automatically and or manually update existing respondent user models. According to at least one embodiment automated communication with and or analysis of respondents modeled sample groups and or other groups for validation of modeling results and or production of data to adjust a modeling formula and or algorithm may be generated through for example automated or manual robocalling IVR predictive dialing SMS MMS mobile messaging applications social media applications automated behavioral tracking and or other software applications computer programs and or method by which data can be extracted by an automated means.

According to some embodiments an interface may be utilized in any of the systems and or methods described herein. Such an interface may enable data records to be appended and or enhanced and or may enable additional data records to be modeled to reflect specific attributes. The interface may also be used to enable data records and or enhanced data to be uploaded and or sorted. Additionally the interface may direct and or broadcast specified messages e.g. SMS MMS email video system to social media profile system to social media interface etc. .

Computing system broadly represents any single or multi processor computing device or system capable of executing computer readable instructions. Examples of computing system include without limitation workstations laptops client side terminals servers distributed computing systems handheld devices or any other computing system or device. In its most basic configuration computing system may include at least one processor and a system memory .

Processor generally represents any type or form of processing unit capable of processing data or interpreting and executing instructions. In certain embodiments processor may receive instructions from a software application or module. These instructions may cause processor to perform the functions of one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein.

System memory generally represents any type or form of volatile or non volatile storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. Examples of system memory include without limitation random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory or any other suitable memory device. Although not required in certain embodiments computing system may include both a volatile memory unit such as for example system memory and a non volatile storage device such as for example primary storage device as described in detail below . In one example one or more of modules from may be loaded into system memory .

In certain embodiments exemplary computing system may also include one or more components or elements in addition to processor and system memory . For example as illustrated in computing system may include a memory controller an Input Output I O controller and a communication interface each of which may be interconnected via a communication infrastructure . Communication infrastructure generally represents any type or form of infrastructure capable of facilitating communication between one or more components of a computing device. Examples of communication infrastructure include without limitation a communication bus such as an ISA PCI PCIe or similar bus and a network.

Memory controller generally represents any type or form of device capable of handling memory or data or controlling communication between one or more components of computing system . For example in certain embodiments memory controller may control communication between processor system memory and I O controller via communication infrastructure .

I O controller generally represents any type or form of module capable of coordinating and or controlling the input and output functions of a computing device. For example in certain embodiments I O controller may control or facilitate transfer of data between one or more elements of computing system such as processor communication interface display adapter input interface and storage interface .

Communication interface broadly represents any type or form of communication device or adapter capable of facilitating communication between exemplary computing system and one or more additional devices. For example in certain embodiments communication interface may facilitate communication between computing system and a private or public network including additional computing systems. Examples of communication interface include without limitation a wired network interface such as a network interface card a wireless network interface such as a wireless network interface card a modem and any other suitable interface. In at least one embodiment communication interface may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a direct link to a network such as the Internet. Communication interface may also indirectly provide such a connection through for example a local area network such as an Ethernet network a personal area network a telephone or cable network a cellular telephone connection a satellite data connection or any other suitable connection.

In certain embodiments communication interface may also represent a host adapter configured to facilitate communication between computing system and one or more additional network or storage devices via an external bus or communications channel. Examples of host adapters include without limitation SCSI host adapters USB host adapters IEEE 1394 host adapters SATA and eSATA host adapters ATA and PATA host adapters Fibre Channel interface adapters Ethernet adapters or the like. Communication interface may also allow computing system to engage in distributed or remote computing. For example communication interface may receive instructions from a remote device or send instructions to a remote device for execution.

As illustrated in computing system may also include at least one display device coupled to communication infrastructure via a display adapter . Display device generally represents any type or form of device capable of visually displaying information forwarded by display adapter . Similarly display adapter generally represents any type or form of device configured to forward graphics text and other data from communication infrastructure or from a frame buffer as known in the art for display on display device .

As illustrated in exemplary computing system may also include at least one input device coupled to communication infrastructure via an input interface . Input device generally represents any type or form of input device capable of providing input either computer or human generated to exemplary computing system . Examples of input device include without limitation a keyboard a pointing device a speech recognition device or any other input device.

As illustrated in exemplary computing system may also include a primary storage device and a backup storage device coupled to communication infrastructure via a storage interface . Storage devices and generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. For example storage devices and may be a magnetic disk drive e.g. a so called hard drive a solid state drive a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive a flash drive or the like. Storage interface generally represents any type or form of interface or device for transferring data between storage devices and and other components of computing system . In one example databases shown in may be stored in primary storage device .

In certain embodiments storage devices and may be configured to read from and or write to a removable storage unit configured to store computer software data or other computer readable information. Examples of suitable removable storage units include without limitation a floppy disk a magnetic tape an optical disk a flash memory device or the like. Storage devices and may also include other similar structures or devices for allowing computer software data or other computer readable instructions to be loaded into computing system . For example storage devices and may be configured to read and write software data or other computer readable information. Storage devices and may also be a part of computing system or may be a separate device accessed through other interface systems.

Many other devices or subsystems may be connected to computing system . Conversely all of the components and devices illustrated in need not be present to practice the embodiments described and or illustrated herein. The devices and subsystems referenced above may also be interconnected in different ways from that shown in . Computing system may also employ any number of software firmware and or hardware configurations. For example one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may be encoded as a computer program also referred to as computer software software applications computer readable instructions or computer control logic on a computer readable storage medium. The phrase computer readable storage medium generally refers to any form of device carrier or medium capable of storing or carrying computer readable instructions. Examples of computer readable storage media include without limitation transmission type media such as carrier waves and physical media such as magnetic storage media e.g. hard disk drives and floppy disks optical storage media e.g. CD or DVD ROMs electronic storage media e.g. solid state drives and flash media and other distribution systems.

The computer readable storage medium containing the computer program may be loaded into computing system . All or a portion of the computer program stored on the computer readable storage medium may then be stored in system memory and or various portions of storage devices and . When executed by processor a computer program loaded into computing system may cause processor to perform and or be a means for performing the functions of one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein. Additionally or alternatively one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein may be implemented in firmware and or hardware. For example computing system may be configured as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC adapted to implement one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein.

Client systems and generally represent any type or form of computing device or system such as exemplary computing system in . Similarly servers and generally represent computing devices or systems such as application servers or database servers configured to provide various database services and or run certain software applications. Network generally represents any telecommunication or computer network including for example an intranet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a personal area network PAN or the Internet. In one example client systems and or and or servers and or may include all or a portion of systems and or from .

As illustrated in one or more storage devices N may be directly attached to server . Similarly one or more storage devices N may be directly attached to server . Storage devices N and storage devices N generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. In certain embodiments storage devices N and storage devices N may represent network attached storage NAS devices configured to communicate with servers and using various protocols such as NFS SMB or CIFS.

Servers and may also be connected to a storage area network SAN fabric . SAN fabric generally represents any type or form of computer network or architecture capable of facilitating communication between a plurality of storage devices. SAN fabric may facilitate communication between servers and and a plurality of storage devices N and or an intelligent storage array . SAN fabric may also facilitate via network and servers and communication between client systems and and storage devices N and or intelligent storage array in such a manner that devices N and array appear as locally attached devices to client systems and . As with storage devices N and storage devices N storage devices N and intelligent storage array generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions.

In certain embodiments and with reference to exemplary computing system of a communication interface such as communication interface in may be used to provide connectivity between each client system and and network . Client systems and may be able to access information on server or using for example a web browser or other client software. Such software may allow client systems and to access data hosted by server server storage devices N storage devices N storage devices N or intelligent storage array . Although depicts the use of a network such as the Internet for exchanging data the embodiments described and or illustrated herein are not limited to the Internet or any particular network based environment.

In at least one embodiment all or a portion of one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may be encoded as a computer program and loaded onto and executed by server server storage devices N storage devices N storage devices N intelligent storage array or any combination thereof. All or a portion of one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may also be encoded as a computer program stored in server run by server and distributed to client systems and over network .

As detailed above computing system and or one or more components of network architecture may perform and or be a means for performing either alone or in combination with other elements one or more steps of an exemplary method for enhancement of user data derived from digital communications.

While the foregoing disclosure sets forth various embodiments using specific block diagrams flowcharts and examples each block diagram component flowchart step operation and or component described and or illustrated herein may be implemented individually and or collectively using a wide range of hardware software or firmware or any combination thereof configurations. In addition any disclosure of components contained within other components should be considered exemplary in nature since many other architectures can be implemented to achieve the same functionality.

In some examples all or a portion of exemplary systems and or in may represent portions of a cloud computing or network based environment. Cloud computing environments may provide various services and applications via the Internet. These cloud based services e.g. software as a service platform as a service infrastructure as a service etc. may be accessible through a web browser or other remote interface. Various functions described herein may be provided through a remote desktop environment or any other cloud based computing environment.

The process parameters and sequence of steps described and or illustrated herein are given by way of example only and can be varied as desired. For example while the steps illustrated and or described herein may be shown or discussed in a particular order these steps do not necessarily need to be performed in the order illustrated or discussed. The various exemplary methods described and or illustrated herein may also omit one or more of the steps described or illustrated herein or include additional steps in addition to those disclosed.

While various embodiments have been described and or illustrated herein in the context of fully functional computing systems one or more of these exemplary embodiments may be distributed as a program product in a variety of forms regardless of the particular type of computer readable storage media used to actually carry out the distribution. The embodiments disclosed herein may also be implemented using software modules that perform certain tasks. These software modules may include script batch or other executable files that may be stored on a computer readable storage medium or in a computing system. In some embodiments these software modules may configure a computing system to perform one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein.

In addition one or more of the modules described herein may transform data physical devices and or representations of physical devices from one form to another. For example one or more of the modules recited herein may transform data physical devices and or representations of physical device from one form to another.

The preceding description has been provided to enable others skilled in the art to best utilize various aspects of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein. This exemplary description is not intended to be exhaustive or to be limited to any precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the instant disclosure. The embodiments disclosed herein should be considered in all respects illustrative and not restrictive. Reference should be made to the appended claims and their equivalents in determining the scope of the instant disclosure.

Unless otherwise noted the terms a or an as used in the specification and claims are to be construed as meaning at least one of. In addition for ease of use the words including and having as used in the specification and claims are interchangeable with and have the same meaning as the word comprising. 

