---

title: Image forming apparatus with transfer output device outputting superimposed bias as transfer bias
abstract: An image forming apparatus includes a transfer bias output device and an information receiving device. The transfer bias output device outputs a transfer bias including a superimposed bias composed of an AC bias superimposed on a DC bias to form a transfer electric field in a transfer nip between an image bearing member bearing a toner image and a nip forming member, to transfer the toner image onto a recording medium in the transfer nip. A controller operatively connected to the information receiving device and the transfer bias output device causes the transfer bias output device to change a target output of a peak-to-peak voltage of the AC bias based on information received by the information receiving device that affects transfer of the toner image and to reduce a target output of the DC bias as the target output value of the peak-to-peak voltage of the AC bias increases.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09535375&OS=09535375&RS=09535375
owner: Ricoh Company, Ltd.
number: 09535375
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20160202
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 893 594 filed May 14 2013 which is in turn based upon and claims the benefit of priority from Japanese Patent Application Nos. 2012 114346 filed on May 18 2012 and 2013 065722 filed on Mar. 27 2013 both in the Japan Patent Office which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Exemplary aspects of the present disclosure generally relate to an image forming apparatus such as a copier a facsimile machine a printer or a multi functional system including a combination thereof and more particularly to an image forming apparatus including a transfer bias output device that outputs a superimposed bias as a transfer bias.

There are known image forming apparatuses equipped with a transfer bias output device that outputs a superimposed bias as a transfer bias in which an alternating current bias and a direct current bias are superimposed to transfer a toner image onto a recording medium. In the image forming apparatuses of this kind toner images formed on photosensitive drums through the electrophotographic process are transferred onto a belt type intermediate transfer member hereinafter intermediate transfer belt and then onto a recording medium at a secondary transfer nip at which the intermediate transfer belt and a secondary transfer roller meet and press against each other.

In this configuration when using a recording medium having a coarse surface such as Japanese paper and embossed paper a pattern of light and dark according to surface conditions of the recording medium appears easily in an output image. That is toner does not transfer well to such embossed surfaces in particular recessed portions of the surface. Thus an image density at the recessed portions is lower than the image density at projecting portions or smooth portions. This inadequate transfer of the toner appears as a pattern of light and dark patches in the resulting output image.

In view of the above in one approach a secondary bias composed of a superimposed bias including an alternating current AC bias and a direct current DC bias is applied to the secondary transfer roller. Using the superimposed bias as a secondary transfer bias enhances transfer of toner to the recessed portions of the surface of the recording medium thereby preventing the pattern of light and dark patches.

However without proper control of a peak to peak voltage of an AC component of the secondary bias in accordance with transfer conditions that affect transfer of toner such as temperature humidity a thickness of the recording medium a size depth of the recessed portions of the recording medium surface and an amount of toner adhered to the surface of the photosensitive drum per unit area toner is not transferred well to the recessed portions of the recording medium resulting in inadequate image density at the recessed portions of the recording medium and hence producing the pattern of light and dark patches.

Furthermore in a low temperature low humidity environment a desirable image density is difficult to obtain in the recessed portions of the recording medium in a configuration in which an AC bias is either under constant voltage control or constant current control so as to achieve a target output value for a peak to peak voltage of an AC component and the target output value is changed depending on the transfer conditions such as temperature while supplying a DC component under constant current control or constant voltage control. When a transfer peak value of the secondary transfer bias is too high in a low temperature low humidity environment electric discharge occurs in the recessed portions of the recording medium in the secondary transfer nip causing reverse charging of toner particles. Such reverse charging causes toner voids or missing of toner in an image at the recessed portions on the surface of the recording medium which appears as white dots in an output image.

In view of the above there is demand for an image forming apparatus capable of preventing an undesirable pattern of light and dark associated with surface conditions of a recording medium.

In view of the foregoing in an aspect of this disclosure there is provided an improved image forming apparatus including an image bearing member a nip forming member a transfer bias output device an information receiving device and a controller. The image bearing member bears a toner image on a surface thereof. The nip forming member contacts the surface of the image bearing member to form a transfer nip therebetween. The transfer bias output device outputs a transfer bias to form a transfer electric field including an alternating electric field in the transfer nip to transfer the toner image from the image bearing member onto a recording medium interposed in the transfer nip. The transfer bias includes a superimposed bias in which an alternating current AC bias is superimposed on a direct current DC bias. The information receiving device receives information that affects transfer of the toner image from the image bearing member to the recording medium in the transfer nip. The controller is operatively connected to the information receiving device and the transfer bias output device and causes the transfer bias output device to change a target output value of a peak to peak voltage of the AC bias based on the information received by the information receiving device and reduce a target output value of the DC bias as the target output value of the peak to peak voltage of the AC bias increases.

According to another aspect an image forming apparatus includes an image bearing member a nip forming member a transfer bias output device an information receiving device and a controller. The image bearing member bears a toner image on a surface thereof. The nip forming member contacts the surface of the image bearing member to form a transfer nip therebetween. The transfer bias output device outputs a transfer bias to form a transfer electric field including an alternating electric field in the transfer nip to transfer the toner image from the image bearing member onto a recording medium interposed in the transfer nip. The transfer bias includes a superimposed bias in which an alternating current AC bias is superimposed on a direct current DC bias. The information receiving device receives information including at least one of temperature humidity a thickness of the recording medium delivered to the transfer nip a surface condition of the recording medium including a depth of a recessed portion thereof and an amount of toner adhered to the surface of the image bearing member per unit area. The controller is operatively connected to the information receiving device and the transfer bias output device and causes the transfer bias output device to change a target output value of a peak to peak voltage of the AC bias based on the information received by the information receiving device and reduce a target output value of the DC bias as the target output value of the peak to peak voltage of the AC bias increases.

The aforementioned and other aspects features and advantages would be more fully apparent from the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments the accompanying drawings and the associated claims.

A description is now given of illustrative embodiments of the present invention. It should be noted that although such terms as first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections it should be understood that such elements components regions layers and or sections are not limited thereby because such terms are relative that is used only to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another region layer or section. Thus for example a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of this disclosure.

In addition it should be noted that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of this disclosure. Thus for example as used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Moreover the terms includes and or including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

In describing illustrative embodiments illustrated in the drawings specific terminology is employed for the sake of clarity. However the disclosure of this patent specification is not intended to be limited to the specific terminology so selected and it is to be understood that each specific element includes all technical equivalents that have the same function operate in a similar manner and achieve a similar result.

In a later described comparative example illustrative embodiment and alternative example for the sake of simplicity the same reference numerals will be given to constituent elements such as parts and materials having the same functions and redundant descriptions thereof omitted.

Typically but not necessarily paper is the medium from which is made a sheet on which an image is to be formed. It should be noted however that other printable media are available in sheet form and accordingly their use here is included. Thus solely for simplicity although this Detailed Description section refers to paper sheets thereof paper feeder etc. it should be understood that the sheets etc. are not limited only to paper but include other printable media as well.

Referring now to the drawings wherein like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding parts throughout the several views and initially with reference to a description is provided of an image forming apparatus according to an aspect of this disclosure.

It is to be noted that the suffixes Y M C and K denote colors yellow magenta cyan and black respectively. To simplify the description these suffixes Y M C and K indicating colors are omitted herein unless otherwise specified.

The optical writing unit is disposed substantially above the image forming units Y M C and K. The sheet tray is disposed at the bottom of the image forming apparatus. The fixing device is disposed downstream from the transfer unit in the direction of transport of the recording medium indicated by a hollow arrow.

The image forming units Y M C and K all have the same configuration as all the others differing only in the color of toner employed. Thus a description is provided of the image forming unit K for forming a toner image of black as a representative example of the image forming units with reference to . The image forming units Y M C and K are replaced upon reaching their product life cycles.

With reference to a description is provided of the image forming unit K as an example of the image forming units. is a schematic diagram illustrating the image forming unit K. The image forming unit K includes a photosensitive drum K serving as a latent image bearing member. The photosensitive drum K is surrounded by various pieces of imaging equipment such as a charging device K a developing device K a drum cleaning device K and a charge remover. The image forming units Y M C and K are held by a common holder so that they are detachably attachable relative to the image forming apparatus and hence replaceable at the same time. Similar to the image forming unit K the image forming units Y M and C include photosensitive drums Y M and C respectively. The photosensitive drums Y M and C are surrounded by charging devices Y M and C developing devices Y M and C drum cleaning devices Y M and C and charge removers.

The photosensitive drum K comprises a drum shaped base on which an organic photosensitive layer is disposed with the external diameter of approximately 60 mm. The photosensitive drum K is rotated in a clockwise direction by a driving device. The charging device K includes a charging roller K supplied with a charging bias. The charging roller K contacts or approaches the photosensitive drum K to generate an electrical discharge therebetween thereby charging uniformly the surface of the photosensitive drum K. According to the present illustrative embodiment the photosensitive drum K is uniformly charged with a negative polarity which is the same polarity as the normal charge on toner. As the charging bias an alternating current AC voltage superimposed on a direct current DC voltage is employed. The charging roller K comprises a metal cored bar covered with a conductive elastic layer made of a conductive elastic material. According to the present embodiment the photosensitive drum K is charged by the charging roller K contacting the photosensitive drum K or disposed near the photosensitive drum K. Alternatively a corona charger may be employed.

The uniformly charged surface of the photosensitive drum K is scanned by a light beam projected from the optical writing unit thereby forming an electrostatic latent image for the color black on the surface of the photosensitive drum K. The electrostatic latent image for the color black on the photosensitive drum K is developed with black toner by the developing device K. Accordingly a visible image also known as a toner image of black is formed. As will be described later the toner image is transferred primarily onto an intermediate transfer belt .

The drum cleaner K removes residual toner remaining on the photosensitive drum K after the primary transfer process that is after the photosensitive drum K passes through a primary transfer nip between the intermediate transfer belt and the photosensitive drum K. The drum cleaner K includes a brush roller K and a cleaning blade K. The cleaning blade K is cantilevered that is one end of the cleaning blade K is fixed to the housing of the drum cleaner K and its free end contacts the surface of the photosensitive drum K. The brush roller K rotates and brushes off the residual toner from the surface of the photosensitive drum K while the cleaning blade K removes the residual toner by scraping. It is to be noted that the cantilevered end of the cleaning blade K is positioned downstream from its free end contacting the photosensitive drum K in the direction of rotation of the photosensitive drum K so that the free end of the cleaning blade K faces or becomes counter to the direction of rotation.

The charge remover removes residual charge remaining on the photosensitive drum K after the surface thereof is cleaned by the drum cleaner K in preparation for the subsequent imaging cycle. The surface of the photosensitive drum K is initialized.

The developing device K includes a developing section K and a developer conveyer K. The developing section K includes a developing roller K inside thereof. The developer conveyer K mixes a developing agent for the color black and transports the developing agent. The developer conveyer K includes a first chamber equipped with a first screw K and a second chamber equipped with a second screw K. The first screw K and the second screw K are each constituted of a rotatable shaft and helical fighting wrapped around the circumferential surface of the shaft. Each end of the shaft of the first screw K and the second screw K in the axial direction is rotatably held by a shaft bearing.

The first chamber with the first screw K and the second chamber with the second screw K are separated by a wall but each end of the wall in the direction of the screw shaft has a connecting hole through which the first chamber and the second chamber are connected. The first screw K mixes the developing agent by rotating the helical fighting and carries the developing agent from the distal end to the proximal end of the screw in the direction perpendicular to the surface of the recording medium while rotating. The first screw K is disposed parallel to and facing the developing roller K. Hence the developing agent is delivered along the axial shaft direction of the developing roller K. The first screw K supplies the developing agent to the surface of the developing roller K along the direction of the shaft line of the developing roller K.

The developing agent transported near the proximal end of the first screw K in passes through the connecting hole in the wall near the proximal side and enters the second chamber. Subsequently the developing agent is carried by the helical flighting of the second screw K. As the second screw K rotates the developing agent is delivered from the proximal end to the distal end in the drawing while being mixed in the direction of rotation.

In the second chamber a toner density detector for detecting the density of toner in the developing agent is disposed substantially at the bottom of a casing of the chamber. As the toner density detector a magnetic permeability detector is employed. There is a correlation between the toner density and the magnetic permeability of the developing agent consisting of toner and a magnetic carrier. Therefore the magnetic permeability detector can detect the density of the toner.

Although not illustrated the image forming apparatus includes toner supply devices to supply independently toner of yellow magenta cyan and black to the second chamber of the respective developing devices . A controller of the image forming apparatus includes a Random Access Memory RAM to store a target output voltage Vtref for output voltages provided by the toner density detectors for yellow magenta cyan and black. If the difference between the output voltages provided by the toner density detectors for yellow magenta cyan and black and Vtref for each color exceeds a predetermined value the toner supply devices are driven for a predetermined time period corresponding to the difference to supply toner. Accordingly the respective color of toner is supplied to the second chamber of the developing device K.

The developing roller K in the developing section K faces the first screw K as well as the photosensitive drum K through an opening formed in the casing of the developing device K. The developing roller K comprises a cylindrical developing sleeve made of a non magnetic pipe which is rotated and a magnetic roller disposed inside the developing sleeve. The magnetic roller is fixed so as not to rotate together with the developing sleeve. The developing agent supplied from the first screw K is carried on the surface of the developing sleeve due to the magnetic force of the magnetic roller. As the developing sleeve rotates the developing agent is transported to a developing area facing the photosensitive drum K.

The developing sleeve is supplied with a developing bias having the same polarity as toner. The developing bias is greater than the bias of the electrostatic latent image on the photosensitive drum K but is less than the charging potential of the uniformly charged photosensitive drum K. With this configuration a developing potential that causes the toner on the developing sleeve to move electrostatically to the electrostatic latent image on the photosensitive drum K acts between the developing sleeve and the electrostatic latent image on the photosensitive drum K. A non developing potential acts between the developing sleeve and the non image formation areas of the photosensitive drum K causing the toner on the developing sleeve to move to the sleeve surface. Due to the developing potential and the non developing potential the toner on the developing sleeve moves selectively to the electrostatic latent image formed on the photosensitive drum K thereby forming a visible image known as a toner image here a black toner image.

Similar to the image forming unit K toner images of yellow magenta and cyan are formed on the photosensitive drums Y M and C of the image forming units Y M and C respectively.

The optical writing unit for writing a latent image on the photosensitive drums is disposed above the image forming units Y M C and K. Based on image information received from an external device such as a personal computer PC the optical writing unit illuminates the photosensitive drums Y M C and K with a light beam projected from a laser diode of the optical writing unit . Accordingly the electrostatic latent images of yellow magenta cyan and black are formed on the photosensitive drums Y M C and K respectively. More specifically the potential of the portion of the charged surface of the photosensitive drum illuminated with the light beam is attenuated. The potential of the illuminated portion of the photosensitive drum is less than the potential of the other area that is the background portion non image portion thereby forming the electrostatic latent image on the photosensitive drum .

The optical writing unit includes a polygon mirror a plurality of optical lenses and mirrors. The light beam projected from the laser diode serving as a light source is deflected in a main scanning direction by the polygon mirror rotated by a polygon motor. The deflected light then strikes the optical lenses and mirrors thereby scanning the photosensitive drums . Alternatively the optical writing unit may employ a light source using an LED array including a plurality of LEDs that projects light.

Referring back to a description is provided of the transfer unit . The transfer unit is disposed below the image forming units Y M C and K. The transfer unit includes the intermediate transfer belt serving as an image bearing member formed into an endless loop and rotated in the counterclockwise direction. The transfer unit also includes a drive roller a secondary transfer back surface roller a cleaning backup roller an nip forming roller a belt cleaning device an electric potential detector four primary transfer rollers Y M C and so forth.

The intermediate transfer belt is entrained around and stretched taut between the drive roller the secondary transfer back surface roller the cleaning backup roller and the primary transfer rollers Y M C and K which may be collectively referred to as the primary transfer rollers unless otherwise specified. The drive roller is rotated in the counterclockwise direction by a motor or the like and rotation of the drive roller enables the intermediate transfer belt to rotate in the same direction.

The intermediate transfer belt has following characteristics. The intermediate transfer belt has a thickness in a range of from 20 m to 200 m preferably approximately 60 m. The volume resistivity thereof is in a range of from approximately 6.0 Log cm to approximately 13 Log cm preferably in a range of from approximately 7.5 Log cm to approximately 12.5 Log cm . The volume resistivity is measured with an applied voltage of 100V by a resistivity meter HIRESTA UPMCPHT 450 with the FIRS probe manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation. The volume resistivity is obtained after 10 seconds.

The surface resistivity of the intermediate transfer belt is in a range of from approximately 9.0 Log sq to approximately 13.0 Log sq preferably approximately 10.0 Log sq to approximately 12.0 Log sq . The surface resistivity is measured with an applied voltage of 500V by HIRESTA UPMCPHT 450 manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation with an FIRS probe. The surface resistivity is obtained after 10 seconds.

The intermediate transfer belt is interposed between the photosensitive drums Y M C and K and the primary transfer rollers Y M C and K. Accordingly primary transfer nips are formed between the outer peripheral surface or the image bearing surface of the intermediate transfer belt and the photosensitive drums Y M C and K that contact the intermediate transfer belt . The primary transfer rollers Y M C and K are supplied with a primary transfer bias by a transfer bias power source thereby generating a transfer electric field between the toner images on the photosensitive drums Y M C and K and the respective primary transfer rollers Y M C and K.

The toner image of yellow formed on the photosensitive drum Y enters the primary transfer nip as the photosensitive drum Y rotates. Subsequently the toner image of yellow is primarily transferred from the photosensitive drum Y to the intermediate transfer belt by the transfer electrical field and the nip pressure applied thereto. As the intermediate transfer belt on which the toner image of yellow is transferred passes through the primary transfer nips of magenta cyan and black accordingly the toner images on the photosensitive drums M C and K are superimposed one atop the other on top of the toner image of yellow which has been transferred on the intermediate transfer belt thereby forming a composite toner image on the intermediate transfer belt in the primary transfer process.

Each of the primary transfer rollers Y M C and K is an elastic roller including a metal cored bar on which a conductive sponge layer is fixated. The shaft center of each of the shafts of the primary transfer rollers Y M C and K is approximately 2.5 mm off from the shaft center of the shafts of the photosensitive drums Y M C and K toward the downstream side in the direction of movement of the intermediate transfer belt . The primary transfer bias under constant current control is applied to the primary transfer rollers Y M C and K described above.

According to the present illustrative embodiment a roller type primary transfer device is used as the primary transfer rollers Y M C and K. Alternatively a transfer charger and a brush type transfer device may be employed as a primary transfer device.

The nip forming roller of the transfer unit is disposed outside the loop formed by the intermediate transfer belt opposite the secondary transfer back surface roller . The intermediate transfer belt is interposed between the secondary transfer back surface roller and the nip forming roller thereby forming a secondary transfer nip N between the outer peripheral surface of intermediate transfer belt and the nip forming roller . The nip forming roller is grounded. The secondary transfer back surface roller is supplied with a secondary transfer bias from a secondary transfer bias power source serving as a transfer bias output device. With this configuration a secondary transfer electric field is formed between the secondary transfer back surface roller and the nip forming roller so that the toner of negative polarity is transferred electrostatically from the secondary transfer back surface roller side to the nip forming roller side.

As illustrated in the sheet tray storing a stack of recording media sheets P is disposed below the transfer unit . The sheet tray is equipped with a sheet feed roller to contact a top sheet of the stack of recording media sheets P. As the sheet feed roller is rotated at a predetermined speed the sheet feed roller picks up the top sheet and feeds it to a sheet passage in the image forming apparatus. Substantially at the end of the sheet passage a pair of registration rollers is disposed. The pair of the registration rollers stops rotating temporarily as soon as the recording medium P is interposed therebetween. The pair of registration rollers starts to rotate again to feed the recording medium P to the secondary transfer nip N in appropriate timing such that the recording medium P is aligned with the composite toner image formed on the intermediate transfer belt in the secondary transfer nip N. In the secondary transfer nip N the recording medium P tightly contacts the composite toner image on the intermediate transfer belt and the composite toner image is transferred from the intermediate transfer belt to the recording medium P by the secondary transfer electric field and the nip pressure applied thereto. The recording medium P on which the composite color toner image is formed passes through the secondary transfer nip N and separates from the nip forming roller and the intermediate transfer belt by self stripping.

The secondary transfer back surface roller is formed of a metal cored bar on which a conductive elastic layer is disposed. The secondary transfer back surface roller has the following characteristics. The external diameter of the secondary transfer back surface roller is in a range from approximately 20 mm to 24 mm. The diameter of the metal cored bar is approximately 16 mm. The resistance R of the conductive elastic layer disposed on the metal cored bar is in a range of from 1E6 to 2E7 . The resistance R is measured using the same method as the primary transfer roller described above. The resistance of the secondary transfer back surface roller is in a range of from approximately 6.0 Log to 12.0 Log preferably 4.0 Log . It is to be noted that a stainless roller without the conductive elastic layer may be used as the secondary transfer back surface roller .

The resistance of the secondary transfer back surface roller is measured as follows. That is a weight of 5 N is applied to both ends of the roller in the longitudinal direction and a voltage of 1 kV is supplied to the roller. The resistance thereof is measured multiple times while the roller is rotated once in one minute.

The nip forming roller comprises a metal cored bar on which a conductive NBR rubber layer is disposed. The outer diameter of the nip forming roller is approximately 24 mm. The diameter of the metal cored bar is approximately 14 mm. The resistance R of the conductive NBR rubber layer is equal to or less than 1E6 . The resistance R is measured using the same method as the primary transfer roller described above. The resistance of the nip forming roller is in a range of from approximately 6.0 Log to approximately 8.0 Log preferably in a range of from approximately 7.0 Log to 8.0 Log . The resistance is measured using the same method as the primary transfer roller described above.

The secondary transfer bias power source outputs a secondary transfer bias to form a transfer electric field in the secondary transfer nip N. According the illustrative embodiment of the present disclosure a superimposed bias in which an AC voltage is superimposed on a DC voltage is output as the secondary transfer bias. An output terminal of the secondary transfer bias power source is connected to the metal cored bar of the secondary transfer back surface roller . The potential of the metal cored bar of the secondary transfer back surface roller has a similar or the same value as the output voltage output from the secondary transfer bias power source . Furthermore the metal cored bar of the nip forming roller is grounded.

The secondary transfer bias power source outputs a DC voltage having the same polarity as the charge polarity of the toner as the DC voltage of the secondary transfer bias. The secondary transfer bias output from the secondary transfer bias power source is applied to the metal cored bar of the secondary transfer back surface roller . Between the secondary transfer back surface roller and the nip forming roller the toner on the intermediate transfer belt is transferred electrostatically from the secondary transfer back surface roller side to the nip forming roller side. Accordingly the toner is secondarily transferred onto the recording medium P.

Application of the secondary transfer bias is not limited to the configuration illustrated in . For example as illustrated in the secondary transfer back surface roller is grounded while the secondary transfer bias output from the secondary transfer bias power source is applied to the metal cored bar of the nip forming roller . In this case as the DC voltage of the secondary transfer bias the DC voltage having the polarity opposite the charge polarity of toner is output. shows an example of application of the secondary transfer bias in which the charge polarity of toner is negative and the DC voltage of the secondary transfer bias is positive which is opposite the charge polarity of toner.

Alternatively as illustrated in the AC voltage output from the secondary transfer bias power source is supplied to the metal cored bar of the secondary transfer back surface roller while the DC voltage output from the secondary transfer bias power source is applied to the metal cored bar of the nip forming roller . In this example similar to the example shown in the DC voltage having the polarity opposite the charge polarity of toner is output from the secondary transfer bias power source .

Alternatively as illustrated in the AC voltage output from the secondary transfer bias power source is supplied to the metal cored bar of the nip forming roller while the DC voltage output from the secondary transfer bias power source is supplied to the metal cored bar of the secondary transfer back surface roller . In this example the DC voltage having the same polarity as the charge polarity of toner is output from the secondary transfer bias power source .

Alternatively as illustrated in the secondary transfer bias power source may include two electrical circuits one that outputs a superimposed voltage in which the DC voltage is superimposed on the AC voltage and another that outputs only the DC voltage. In other words one of the two circuits is selected by a switching circuit to selectively supply one of the superimposed voltage and the DC voltage to the secondary transfer back surface roller . In this example both electrical circuits output the DC voltage having the same polarity as the charge polarity of the toner.

Alternatively as illustrated in one of the two circuits described above is selected by the switching circuit to supply one of the superimposed voltage and the DC voltage to the nip forming roller . In this example both electrical circuits output the DC voltage having the opposite polarity of the charge polarity of the toner.

As described above the secondary transfer bias can be applied in various ways. However for a normal sheet of paper such as the one having a relatively smooth surface or a low surface roughness an image density is consistent even when the secondary transfer bias consisting only of the DC voltage is applied as a secondary transfer bias. In view of the above according to the present illustrative embodiment the secondary transfer power source includes a first mode in which the secondary transfer power source outputs only the DC voltage and a second mode in which the secondary transfer power source outputs both the DC voltage and the AC voltage. The first mode and the second mode are switchable. In order to change the modes for example as illustrated in a relay switch is employed to turn on and off the output of the DC voltage and the AC voltage.

In the example shown in the secondary transfer bias power source includes a superimposed voltage electrical circuit and a DC voltage electrical circuit. The superimposed voltage electrical circuit outputs a superimposed voltage to be supplied to the secondary transfer back surface roller . The DC voltage electrical circuit outputs a DC voltage to be supplied to the nip forming roller . The relay switch connected to the secondary transfer back surface roller establishes and breaks electrical continuity between the secondary transfer back surface roller and the superimposed voltage electrical circuit by switching the connection. The relay switch connected to the nip forming roller establishes and breaks electrical continuity between the nip forming roller and the DC voltage electrical circuit by switching the connection.

It is to be noted that the relay switch connected to the secondary transfer back surface roller and the relay switch connected to the nip forming roller operate together. More specifically when the relay switch connected to the secondary transfer back surface roller establishes electrical continuity between the secondary transfer back surface roller and the superimposed voltage electrical circuit the relay switch connected to the nip forming roller connects the nip forming roller to earth. The DC component of the superimposed voltage output from the superimposed voltage electrical circuit has the same polarity as the charge polarity of toner. When the secondary transfer back surface roller is connected to earth by the relay switch the relay switch connected to the nip forming roller establishes electrical continuity between the nip forming roller and the DC voltage electrical circuit. The DC voltage output from the DC voltage electrical circuit has the polarity opposite the charge polarity of toner.

In the example shown in the secondary transfer bias power source includes the DC voltage electrical circuit and the superimposed voltage electrical circuit. The DC voltage electrical circuit outputs a DC voltage to be supplied to the secondary transfer back surface roller . The superimposed voltage electrical circuit outputs a superimposed voltage to be supplied to the nip forming roller . The relay switch connected to the secondary transfer back surface roller establishes and breaks electrical continuity between the secondary transfer back surface roller and the DC voltage electrical circuit by switching the connection. The relay switch connected to the nip forming roller establishes and breaks electrical continuity between the nip forming roller and the superimposed voltage electrical circuit by switching the connection.

It is to be noted that the relay switch connected to the secondary transfer back surface roller and the relay switch connected to the nip forming roller operate together. More specifically when the relay switch connected to the secondary transfer back surface roller establishes electrical continuity between the secondary transfer back surface roller and the DC voltage electrical circuit the relay switch connected to the nip forming roller connects the nip forming roller to earth.

The DC voltage output from the DC voltage electrical circuit has the same polarity as the charge polarity of toner. When the secondary transfer back surface roller is connected to earth by the relay switch the relay switch connected to the nip forming roller establishes electrical continuity between the nip forming roller and the superimposed voltage electrical circuit. The DC component of the superimposed voltage output from the superimposed voltage electrical circuit has the same polarity as the charge polarity of toner.

When using a normal sheet of paper as a recording medium P such as paper having a relatively smooth surface a pattern of dark and light patches according to the surface conditions is less likely to appear on the recording medium. In this case the secondary transfer bias power source carries out the first mode to supply the secondary transfer bias consisting only of the DC voltage. By contrast when using a recording medium such as pulp paper having a rough surface the secondary transfer bias power source carries out the second mode to apply the secondary transfer bias consisting of both the DC voltage and the AC voltage.

After the intermediate transfer belt passes through the secondary transfer nip N residual toner not having been transferred onto the recording medium P remains on the intermediate transfer belt . The residual toner is removed from the intermediate transfer belt by the belt cleaning device which contacts the outer peripheral surface or the image bearing surface of the intermediate transfer belt . The cleaning backup roller disposed inside the loop formed by the intermediate transfer belt supports the cleaning operation by the belt cleaning device .

On the right hand side of the secondary transfer nip N between the secondary transfer back surface roller and the intermediate transfer belt in the fixing device is provided. The fixing device includes a fixing roller and a pressing roller . The fixing roller includes a heat source such as a halogen lamp inside thereof. While rotating the pressing roller pressingly contacts the fixing roller thereby forming a heated area called a fixing nip therebetween. The recording medium P bearing an unfixed toner image on the surface thereof is delivered to the fixing device and interposed between the fixing roller and the pressing roller in the fixing device . Under heat and pressure the toner adhered to the toner image is softened and fixed to the recording medium P in the fixing nip. After the fixing process the recording medium P is discharged outside the image forming apparatus from the fixing device via the sheet passage.

In the case of monochrome imaging a support plate supporting the primary transfer rollers Y M and C of the transfer unit is moved to separate the primary transfer rollers Y M and C from the photosensitive drums Y M and C. Accordingly the outer peripheral surface of the intermediate transfer belt that is the image bearing surface is separated from the photosensitive drums Y M and C so that the intermediate transfer belt contacts only the photosensitive drum K. In this state the image forming unit K is activated to form a toner image of the color black on the photosensitive drum K.

With reference to a description is provided of the secondary transfer bias. is a waveform chart showing a waveform of the secondary bias consisting of a superimposed voltage output from the secondary transfer bias power source . The secondary transfer bias is supplied to the metal cored bar of the secondary transfer back surface roller . The nip forming roller is grounded as illustrated in . When the secondary transfer bias is supplied to the metal cored bar of secondary transfer back surface roller a potential difference is generated between the metal cored bar of the secondary transfer back surface roller and the metal cored bar of the nip forming roller .

In an offset voltage Voff is a value of a DC component of the superimposed voltage. A peak to peak voltage Vpp is a value of an AC component of the peak to peak voltage of the superimposed voltage. The superimposed voltage has a sinusoidal waveform and the duty cycle of the AC component is 50 . Hence the time averaged value of the superimposed voltage coincides with the value of the offset voltage Voff. In the offset voltage Voff has negative polarity which is the same polarity as the charge polarity of toner. According to the present illustrative embodiment when the polarity of the offset voltage Voff of the secondary transfer bias applied to the secondary transfer back surface roller is negative toner particles having negative polarity are repelled by the secondary transfer back surface roller relatively toward the nip forming roller side. However the toner is not always repelled by the secondary transfer back surface roller but is drawn to the secondary transfer back surface roller . Because the time averaged potential has negative polarity the toner particles are repelled by the secondary transfer back surface roller toward the nip forming roller side.

In a return peak potential Vr represents a positive peak value having the polarity opposite that of the toner in the secondary transfer bias. A transfer peak value Vt represents a negative peak value having the same polarity as that of the toner in the secondary transfer bias.

Next a description is provided of a transfer experiment performed by the present inventors to study principles of a superimposed bias as a secondary transfer bias that results in a sufficient image density at recessed portions of a surface of a recording medium.

In the experiment a bias that forms an alternating electric field in the secondary transfer nip N was used as a secondary transfer bias. A special observation equipment was manufactured to observe behavior of toner to find out how to achieve a sufficient image density at the recessed portions of the surface of the recording medium.

The developing device has a configuration similar to that of the developing device shown in according to the illustrative embodiment and includes a screw a development roll a doctor blade and so forth. The development roll is driven to rotate with a development bias applied thereto by a power source .

By moving the substrate support the transparent substrate is moved to a position directly above the developing device at a predetermined speed and disposed opposite the development roll with a predetermined gap therebetween. Then toner on the development roll is transferred to the transparent electrode of the transparent substrate . Thereby a toner layer having a predetermined thickness is formed on the transparent electrode of the transparent substrate . The toner adhesion amount per unit area in the toner layer is adjustable by the toner density in the developing agent the toner charge amount the development bias value the gap between the transparent substrate and the developing roll the moving speed of the transparent substrate the rotation speed of the developing roller and so forth.

The transparent substrate on which the toner layer is formed is translated to a position opposite a recording medium adhered to the planar metal plate by a conductive adhesive. The metal plate is placed on the substrate which is provided with a load sensor and placed on the Z stage . Further the metal plate is connected to the voltage amplifier . The waveform generator provides the voltage amplifier with a transfer bias including a DC voltage and an AC voltage. The transfer bias is amplified by the voltage amplifier and applied to the metal plate . If the Z stage is driven and elevates the metal plate the recording medium starts coming into contact with the toner layer . If the metal plate is further elevated the pressure applied to the toner layer increases. The elevation of the metal plate is stopped when the output from the load sensor reaches a predetermined value. With the pressure maintained at the predetermined value a transfer bias is applied to the metal plate and the behavior of the toner is observed. After the observation the Z stage is driven to lower the metal plate thereby separating the recording medium from the transparent substrate . Accordingly the toner layer is transferred onto the recording medium .

The behavior of the toner was examined using the microscope and the high speed camera disposed above the transparent substrate . The transparent substrate is formed of the layers of the glass plate the transparent electrode and the transparent insulating layer which are all made of transparent material. It is therefore possible to observe from above and through the transparent substrate the behavior of the toner located under the transparent substrate .

In the experiment a microscope using a zoom lens VH Z75 manufactured by Keyence Corporation was used as the microscope . Further a camera FASTCAM MAX 120KC manufactured by Photron Limited was used as the high speed camera controlled by the personal computer . The microscope and the high speed camera are supported by a camera support. The camera support adjusts the focus of the microscope .

The behavior of the toner was photographed as follows. That is the position at which the behavior of the toner to be observed was illuminated with light by the light source and the focus of the microscope was adjusted. Then a transfer bias was applied to the metal plate to move the toner in the toner layer adhering to the lower surface of the transparent substrate toward the recording medium . The behavior of the toner in this process was photographed by the high speed camera .

The structure of the transfer nip in which toner is transferred onto a recording medium in the observation experiment equipment illustrated in is different from the image forming apparatus of the illustrative embodiment. Therefore the transfer electric field acting on the toner is different therebetween even if the applied transfer bias is the same.

To find appropriate observation conditions transfer bias conditions allowing the observation experiment equipment to attain favorable density reproducibility on recessed portions of a surface of a recording medium were investigated. As the recording medium a sheet of FC Japanese paper SAZANAMI manufactured by NBS Ricoh Company Ltd. was used. As the toner yellow Y toner having an average toner particle diameter of approximately 6.8 m mixed with a relatively small amount of black K toner was used. The observation experiment equipment is configured to apply the transfer bias to a rear surface of the recording sheet . In the observation experiment equipment the polarity of the transfer bias capable of transferring the toner onto the recording sheet is opposite the polarity of the transfer bias employed in the image forming apparatus according to the illustrative embodiment that is positive polarity .

As the AC component of the transfer bias including a superimposed voltage an AC component having a sinusoidal waveform was employed. The frequency f of the AC component was set at 1000 Hz and the DC voltage which corresponds to the offset voltage Voff in the illustrative embodiment and the time averaged value has the same value was set at 200 V and the peak to peak voltage Vpp was set at 1000 V. The toner layer was transferred onto the recording medium with a toner adhesion amount in a range of from approximately 0.4 mg cmto approximately 0.5 mg cm. As a result a sufficient image density was successfully obtained on the recessed portions of the surface of the SAZANAMI paper sheet.

Under the above described conditions the behavior of the toner was photographed with the microscope focused on the toner layer on the transparent substrate and the following phenomenon was observed. That is the toner particles in the toner layer moved back and forth between the transparent substrate and the recording sheet due to an alternating electric field generated by the AC component of the transfer bias. With an increase in the number of the back and forth movements the amount of toner particles moving back and forth was increased.

More specifically in the transfer nip there was one back and forth movement of toner particles in every cycle 1 f of the AC component of the transfer bias the secondary transfer bias in the image forming apparatus of the illustrative embodiment due to a single action of the alternating electric field. In the first cycle only toner particles present on a surface of the toner layer separated from the toner layer as illustrated in . The toner particles then entered the recessed portions of the recording sheet and then returned to the toner layer . In this process the returning toner particles collided with other toner particles remaining in the toner layer thereby reducing the adhesion of the other toner particles to the toner layer or to the transparent substrate . In the next cycle therefore a larger amount of toner particles than in the previous cycle separated from the toner layer as illustrated in . The toner particles then entered the recessed portions of the recording medium and then returned to the toner layer as illustrated in . In this process the returning toner particles collided with other toner particles remaining in the toner layer thereby reducing the adhesion of the other toner particles to the toner layer or to the transparent substrate .

In the next cycle therefore a larger amount of toner particles than in the previous cycle separated from the toner layer as illustrated in . As described above the number of toner particles moving back and forth was gradually increased every time the toner particles moved back and forth. After the lapse of a nip passage time for example a time corresponding to the actual nip passage time in the observation experiment equipment a sufficient amount of toner had been transferred to the recessed portions of the recording medium .

Further the behavior of the toner was photographed under conditions with a DC voltage of approximately 200 V and the peak to peak voltage Vpp of the alternating current voltage of approximately 800 V and the following phenomenon was observed. That is some of the toner particles in the toner layer present on the surface thereof separated from the toner layer in the first cycle and entered the recessed portions of the recording medium . Subsequently however the toner particles in the recessed portions remained therein without returning to the toner layer . In the next cycle a very small number of toner particles newly separated from the toner layer and entered the recessed portions of the recording medium . After the lapse of the nip passage time therefore only a relatively small amount of toner particles had been transferred to the recessed portions of the recording medium .

The present inventors conducted further experiments and found the following. That is a return peak value Vr capable of causing the toner particles having separated from the toner layer and entered the recessed portions of the recording medium to return to the toner layer in the first cycle depends on the toner adhesion amount per unit area on the transparent substrate . More specifically the larger is the toner adhesion amount on the transparent substrate the larger is the return peak value Vr capable of causing the toner particles in the recessed portions in the recording medium to return to the toner layer .

As understood from these experiments the secondary transfer bias consisting of the AC component and the CD component can attain a sufficient image density on the recessed portions of the recording medium . Although advantageous it was also found that without proper control of the peak to peak voltage Vpp of the AC component of the secondary transfer bias in accordance with the transfer conditions the image density at the recessed portions of the recording medium was insufficient and hence the pattern of light and dark patches was generated at the recessed portions. The transfer conditions such as temperature humidity a thickness of the recording medium a size depth of the recessed portions of the recording medium surface an amount of toner adhered to the surface of the intermediate transfer belt per unit area affect transferability of toner transferred from the intermediate transfer belt to the recording medium in the secondary transfer nip.

Due to the following reasons the peak to peak voltage Vpp of the AC component of the secondary transfer bias needs to be properly controlled in accordance with the transfer conditions. Referring back to the secondary transfer bias includes the offset voltage Voff superimposed on the AC bias. More specifically the AC bias swings equally between the positive side and the negative side from 0V. The offset voltage Voff includes a DC bias having positive polarity opposite the charge polarity of toner. When the secondary transfer bias has the positive polarity during one cycle of the AC component the toner particles in the toner layer on the belt surface are moved toward the recording medium in the secondary transfer nip.

When the secondary transfer bias attains the transfer peak value Vt the electric field intensity in the direction in which the toner particles are transferred from the belt surface to the recording medium hereinafter referred to as a transfer direction is at its maximum. At this time without a relatively large electric field intensity the toner particles cannot be transferred favorably from the belt surface to the recording medium. As a result the image density is insufficient not only at the recessed portions of the surface of the recording medium but also at the projecting portions. Thus the electric field intensity in the transfer direction needs to be increased until a sufficient image density is obtained at least at the projecting portions on the recording medium surface. Thereafter this value is referred to as a required electric field intensity in the transfer direction .

By contrast while the secondary transfer bias has negative polarity the toner particles return from the recording medium to the belt surface. As the secondary transfer bias reaches the return peak value Vr the electric field intensity in the direction in which the toner particles are returned from the recording medium to the intermediate transfer belt hereinafter referred to as a return direction is at its maximum. At this time in order to return the toner particles having been transferred to the recessed portions of the recording medium to the toner layer a sufficient electrostatic force capable of returning the toner particles in the recessed portion to the toner layer within a half cycle needs to be applied to the toner particles transferred to the recessed portions. Thus the electric field intensity in the return direction needs to be increased at least until the electrostatic force causes the toner particles transferred to the recessed portions of the recording medium surface to return to the toner layer within the half cycle. Thereafter this value is referred to as a required electric field intensity in the return direction .

The electric field intensity in the transfer direction depends on the transfer peak value Vt and the electric field intensity in the return direction depends on the return peak value Vr. Furthermore the sum of the peak values Vt and Vr is equal to the peak to peak value Vpp of the AC component. Therefore as for the peak to peak voltage Vpp the electric field intensity in the transfer direction needs to be at the required electric field intensity in the transfer direction.

In the meantime the electric field intensity in the return direction needs to be at the required electric field intensity in the return direction or greater thereafter this value is referred to as a required peak to peak . The required peak to peak depends on transfer conditions which affect transferability. For example when the transfer conditions such as temperature and humidity change in particular when temperature and humidity drop the electrical resistance of the secondary transfer roller to which the secondary transfer bias is applied increases. Consequently the required peak to peak increases in a low temperature low humidity environment as compared with a high temperature high humidity environment. It is to be noted that the temperature and the humidity are detected by an information receiving device such as a temperature detector and a humidity detector shown in for example.

The peak to peak voltage Vpp needs to be properly controlled in accordance with the transfer conditions for example the temperature due to reasons described above. It is desirable that the peak to peak voltage Vpp be controlled depending on the humidity as well.

In order to reliably transfer a toner image from the belt surface to the recording medium a proper amount of direct current needs to flow between the belt surface and the recording medium. The offset voltage Voff capable of allowing the proper amount of direct current to flow depends on the thickness of the recording medium and an absolute humidity. More specifically the thicker the recording medium and or the lower the absolute humidity the higher the electrical resistance of the recording medium hence hindering the direct current from flowing easily. With an increase in the thickness of the recording medium and or decrease in the absolute humidity the offset voltage Voff needs to be increased to prevent insufficient direct current flowing between the belt surface and the recording medium and hence insufficient image density.

In view of the above as a comparative example a transfer power source may include an AC bias output device and a DC bias output device. More specifically the AC bias output device outputs the peak to peak voltage Vpp of the AC bias under constant voltage control while changing a target value thereof in accordance with the transfer conditions such as temperature. The DC bias output device outputs the DC bias under constant current control. In this configuration the peak to peak voltage Vpp of the AC bias is changed to a proper level in accordance with the transfer conditions while supplying the DC bias under constant current control to allow a constant amount of direct current to flow between the belt surface and the recording medium regardless of the electrical resistance of the recording medium. However the image density at the recessed portions is not sufficient in the low temperature low humidity environment.

This is because insufficient image density is associated with reverse charging of toner due to electric discharge. More specifically as described above the required peak to peak in a low temperature low humidity environment is greater than in a high temperature high humidity environment. If the temperature and the humidity become low but the electrical resistance of the recording medium does not change the rise in the electrical resistance of the secondary transfer roller is a mere cause of the increase in the required peak to peak. However because the temperature and the humidity become low the electrical resistance of the recording medium increases due to loss of moisture thereby increasing the DC voltage offset voltage Voff output under constant current control.

In order to secure the required electric field intensity in the return direction even when the offset voltage Voff increases the peak to peak voltage of the AC bias needs to be increased accordingly. Therefore the cause of the increase in the required peak to peak when the temperature and the humidity become low includes an increase in the electrical resistance of the recording medium in addition to an increase in the electrical resistance of the secondary transfer roller. Depending on the level of the electrical resistance of the secondary transfer roller the transfer peak value Vt gets too high when increasing the peak to peak voltage Vpp to the same level as the required peak to peak. As a result electric discharge occurs in the recessed portions of the recording medium in the secondary nip causing reverse charging of the toner in the recessed portions. As described above such reverse charging causes toner voids in an image at the recessed portions on the surface of the recording medium which appears as white spots absence of toner in an output image. Toner voids or absence of toner appears as white spots in an image and stand out. As a result a pattern of light and dark patches in accordance with the surface conditions appears more visible.

The present inventors performed further observation. A test machine having the same configurations as the image forming apparatus shown in was used for the following experiments. As the secondary transfer bias power source a function generator FG300 manufactured by Yokogawa Meters Instruments Corporation was used to generate waveforms of a superimposed voltage which was then amplified by TREK Model 10 40 High Voltage Power Amplifier and output.

Peak to peak voltage Vpp of the AC component of the secondary transfer bias 7 kV under constant voltage control 

As a recording medium textured paper called LEATHAC 66 a trade name manufactured by TOKUSHU PAPER MFG. CO. LTD. having a ream weight of 175 kg hereinafter referred to as a sheet A and LEATHAC 66 having a ream weight of 215 kg hereinafter referred to as a sheet B was used. A ream weight herein refers to a weight of 1000 sheets of paper having the size of 788 mm 1091 mm. The roughness of the surface of LEATHAC 66 is greater than that of SAZANAMI . The maximum depth of the recessed portions of the surface of LEATHAC 66 was approximately 100 m. The tests were performed under laboratory atmospheric conditions at 23 C. and 50 RH.

Under the conditions described above an entirely solid black image of A4 size was formed on the sheet A and the sheet B. A sufficient image density was obtained both at the smooth portions no recesses and the recessed portions on the sheet A. A smooth portion herein refers to a smooth portion or a projecting portion on the surface of the recording medium. By contrast a sufficient image density was not obtained both at the smooth portions and the recessed portions on the sheet B. When using the sheet B having a higher electrical resistance than that of the sheet A simply outputting the offset voltage Voff of the secondary transfer bias under constant voltage control did not enable a sufficient amount of direct current to flow through the secondary transfer nip. As a result the image density at the smooth portions as well as the recessed portions of the sheet B was insufficient.

In Experiment 2 the DC voltage of the secondary transfer bias was output from the secondary transfer bias power source under constant current control. A target output value of an offset current Ioff representing a current value of the DC component of the secondary transfer bias was set to 47.5 A. Other than the target output value of the offset current Ioff described above an entirely solid black image of A4 size was formed on the sheet A and the sheet B under the same conditions as Experiment 1. The image density was sufficient both at the smooth portions and the recessed portions of the sheet A and the sheet B. A necessary amount of direct current flowed through the secondary transfer nip using the sheet A and the sheet B having a higher electrical resistance than that of the sheet A. Thus the image density was sufficient both at the smooth portions and the recessed portions.

Peak to peak voltage Vpp of the AC component of the secondary transfer bias Varied under constant voltage control 

Offset current Ioff of the DC component of the secondary transfer bias Varied under constant current control.

LEATHAC 66 175 kg sheet A was used as a recording medium. The tests were performed under laboratory atmospheric conditions at 10 C. and 15 RH. A solid blue image was formed by superimposing a halftone HT image of magenta and a halftone image of cyan one atop the other and the solid blue image thus obtained was output onto the sheet A with different values of the peak to peak voltage Vpp and the DC component. Transferability of toner with respect to the recessed portions and the smooth portions of the surface of the recording medium and toner voids were visually evaluated.

Transferability of toner relative to the smooth portions of the surface of the recording medium refers to an ability to transfer toner particles from the belt surface to the smooth portions of the surface of the recording medium. Transferability of toner relative to the smooth portions was evaluated in the following manner. When toner particles were favorably transferred to the smooth portions thus obtaining a sufficient image density it was graded as GOOD . When the image density was not as sufficient was the one evaluated as GOOD but the amount of toner particles transferred to the smooth portions was sufficient enough to obtain an acceptable image density the transferability was graded as FAIR . When the amount of toner particles transferred to the smooth portions was below the acceptable level the transferability was graded as POOR .

Transferability of toner relative to the recessed portions of the surface of the recording medium refers to an ability to transfer toner particles from the belt surface to the recessed portions of the recording medium. Transferability of toner relative to the recessed portions was evaluated in the following manner. When toner particles were favorably transferred to the recessed portions thus obtaining a sufficient image density it was graded as GOOD . When the image density was not as sufficient was the one evaluated as GOOD but the amount of toner particles transferred to the recessed portions was sufficient enough to obtain an acceptable image density the transferability was graded as FAIR . When the amount of toner particles transferred to the recessed portions was below the acceptable level the transferability was graded as POOR .

It is to be noted that the evaluation of the transferability of toner relative to the recessed portions does not include a transfer failure due to toner voids. Thus the transferability of toner relative to the recessed portions was evaluated based on an image density of the recessed portions without toner voids.

As for the evaluation of the toner voids at the recessed portions when toner voids were not present at all it was evaluated as GOOD . When some toner voids were present but were within an acceptable level it was evaluated as FAIR . When the presence of toner voids was beyond the acceptable level it was evaluated as POOR .

As understood from in Condition 1 regardless of the peak to peak voltage Vpp the output target value of the offset current Ioff was fixed to 40 A. By contrast in Conditions 2 through 8 as the peak to peak voltage Vpp increased the target output value of the offset current Ioff was reduced.

The results of image evaluations under each condition are shown in the table in . In when all three evaluation items that is the transferability of toner relative to the smooth portions of the recording medium the transferability of toner relative to the recessed portions and generation of toner voids were evaluated as GOOD it was evaluated as GOOD in . In a case in which at least one of the items was not evaluated as GOOD the result was shown only for the item which was not evaluated as GOOD in . Although not shown other items not shown were evaluated as GOOD . For example for the solid blue image under Condition 2 with Vpp 4 kV the transferability of toner relative to the recessed portions was evaluated as POOR which is shown as RECESS POOR in . Although not shown the evaluations of other items the transferability of toner relative to the smooth portions and generation of toner voids were GOOD . For the solid blue image under Condition 2 with Vpp 10 kV the evaluation of the presence of toner voids was FAIR TONER VOIDS FAIR . Although not shown the evaluations of both the transferability of toner relative to the recessed portions and the smooth portions were GOOD .

As shown in reducing the offset current Ioff as the peak to peak voltage Vpp was increased showed better results than keeping the offset current Ioff at a constant level. Condition 8 shows the best result. However under Condition 8 a favorable result may still be obtained with the peak to peak voltage Vpp of 4 kV without increasing the offset current Ioff to 40 A. For example similar to the case with the peak to peak voltage Vpp of 12 kV a favorable result may still be obtained with the offset current Ioff of 24 A. In other words even when the peak to peak voltage Vpp is increased the offset current Ioff is not reduced but the offset current Ioff is set to 24 A regardless of the peak to peak voltage Vpp. With this configuration a favorable result similar to the result of Condition 8 may be obtained.

In view of the above further experiments were performed with additional conditions 9 through 11 as shown in .

It is to be noted that in Condition 8 even when the offset current Ioff was reduced as the peak to peak voltage Vpp increases the image density was sufficient at the smooth portions of the recording medium. This means that as the peak to peak voltage Vpp increases the required electric field intensity in the transfer direction decreases. This is because as the peak to peak voltage Vpp increases the toner particles separate from the surface of the intermediate transfer belt more easily. Adhesion of the toner particles relative to the intermediate transfer belt is reduced. 

In terms of potential conditions Condition 8 was the same as Condition 5 but the waveform of the AC bias was different. More specifically the AC bias of Condition 5 had a sinusoidal waveform such as shown in . By contrast the AC bias of Condition 8 had a square wave with the return time ratio of 40 such as shown in . In view of the above under the same potential conditions the AC bias having a square wave and the return time ratio of less than 50 provides better results than the AC bias having a sinusoidal waveform. The return time ratio is explained later in Experiment 8.

LEATHAC 66 has characteristics that as the ream weight increases the thickness thereof increases and the depth of the recessed portions of the surface of the sheet increases. As a result the distance between the toner particles transferred to the recessed portions and the surface of the belt increases at the secondary transfer nip N. Therefore as the ream weight of the LEATHAC 66 increases the required return peak value Vr for returning the toner particles transferred to the recessed portions to the belt surface increases.

Furthermore it is desirable that the peak to peak voltage Vpp of the AC voltage be increased as the thickness of paper increases in addition to increasing the peak to peak voltage Vpp in a low temperature low humidity environment. More specifically the peak to peak voltage Vpp of the AC voltage is increased to keep the surface potential of the secondary transfer back surface roller constant regardless of an increase in the electrical resistance of the secondary transfer back surface roller in a low temperature low humidity environment. When the thickness of paper increases the peak to peak voltage Vpp of the AC voltage is increased to accommodate an increase in the optimum value of the return peak value Vr due to an increase in the depth of the recessed portions of the recording medium.

The tests were performed under laboratory atmospheric conditions at 10 C. and 15 RH low temperature low humidity environment using various ream weight of LEATHAC 66 to find an optimum peak to peak voltage Vpp and an offset current Ioff for each type. The results are shown in . is a table showing the results of Experiment 4. In in Condition 12 regardless of the peak to peak voltage Vpp the target output value of the offset current Ioff was fixed to 40 A. By contrast in Conditions 13 through 16 as the peak to peak voltage Vpp was increased the target output value of the offset current Ioff was reduced.

As understood from when the peak to peak voltage Vpp was increased to prevent insufficient image density at the smooth portions as the thickness of the recording medium increased from the ream weight 100 kg to 175 kg a favorable image quality was achieved in the configuration in which as the peak to peak Vpp was increased the offset current Ioff was reduced. More specifically while maintaining the required electric field intensity in the transfer direction so as to attain a sufficient image density at the smooth portions and the recessed portions the transfer peak value Vt was prevented from increasing and generation of toner voids was suppressed.

Print tests were performed under different laboratory atmospheric conditions such as temperature and humidity and the fluctuation of the optimum peak to peak voltage Vpp in response to changes in the resistance of the secondary transfer back surface roller due to environmental changes was studied. As a recording medium LEATHAC 66 175 kg Sheet A was used for all environmental conditions. The results are shown in .

As understood from even when the peak to peak voltage Vpp was increased to prevent insufficient image density at the smooth portions in a low temperature low humidity environment from 32 C. 80 to 10 C. 15 a favorable image quality was maintained in the configuration in which as the peak to peak Vpp was increased the offset current Ioff was reduced. More specifically while maintaining the required electric field intensity in the transfer direction so as to attain a sufficient image density at the smooth portions and the recessed portions the transfer peak value Vt was prevented from increasing and generation of toner voids was suppressed.

In Experiment 6 the present inventors studied a minimum threshold time during which the toner particles entered the recessed portions of the sheet surface were effectively returned to the belt surface in the secondary transfer nip N. The return time herein refers to a duration during which the secondary transfer bias including a superimposed voltage has the polarity in the return direction in one cycle of alternating current. The transfer time herein refers to a duration during which the secondary transfer bias including a superimposed voltage has the polarity in the transfer direction in one cycle of alternating current. The sum of the return time and the transfer time coincides with the value obtained in one cycle of the alternating current.

The return time ratio refers to a ratio of the return time in one cycle of the alternating current. The image density of the solid blue image at the recessed portions was measured under the return time ratio of 50 while changing the frequency f of the AC component of the secondary transfer bias. shows a relation between an IDmax maximum image density of the recessed portions and the frequency f of the AC component in the experiment.

As understood from when the frequency f of the AC component exceeded 16000 Hz the IDmax at the recessed portions dropped sharply. This means that when one cycle of the alternating current drops below 0.06 msec the IDmax of the recessed portions drops sharply. In this experiment the return time ratio was 50 . Therefore when the return time is below 0.03 msec the IDmax at the recessed portions drops sharply.

In this experiment the peak to peak voltage Vpp of the AC component was 2500 V the offset voltage Voff was 800 V and the return time ratio was 20 . In Experiment 7 while changing the frequency f of the AC component and the process linear velocity v the solid blue image was formed on a normal sheet of paper for each condition. The output solid blue images were visually evaluated. Unevenness of image density e.g. pitch unevenness caused possibly by an alternating electric field in the secondary transfer nip N was evaluated. Under the same frequency f the faster the process linear velocity v the more easily pitch unevenness occurred. Under the same process linear velocity v the lower the frequency f the more easily pitch unevenness occurred.

These results indicate that pitch unevenness occurs unless the toner moves back and forth between the intermediate transfer belt and the recessed portions of the surface of the recording medium for a number of times N times in the secondary transfer nip N. When the process linear velocity v was 282 mm s and the frequency f was 400 Hz no unevenness of image density was observed. However when the process linear velocity v was 282 mm s and the frequency f was 300 Hz unevenness of image density was observed.

The width d of the secondary transfer nip N in the direction of movement of the belt was approximately 3 mm. The number N of back and forth movement of toner in the secondary transfer nip N in the condition under which no pitch unevenness was observed is calculated as approximately 4 times 3 400 Hz 282 mm s which is the minimum number of reciprocal movement of toner that does not cause pitch unevenness.

When the process linear velocity v was 141 mm s and the frequency f was 200 Hz no pitch unevenness was observed. However when the process linear velocity v was 141 mm s and the frequency f was 100 Hz pitch unevenness was observed. Similar to the condition in which the process linear velocity v was 282 mm s and the frequency f was 400 Hz when the process linear velocity v was 141 mm s and the frequency f was 200 Hz the number N of back and forth movement of toner in the transfer nip N was calculated as approximately 4 times 3 mm 200 Hz 141 mm sec . Therefore when the following relation frequency f 4 d v is satisfied an image without unevenness of image density can be obtained.

In Experiment 8 the AC component of the secondary transfer bias having a square wave such as shown in was output from the secondary transfer bias power source . A duty cycle of the square wave of the AC component was not 50 because the rise time toward the polarity in the return direction is shorter than the fall time toward the polarity in the transfer direction. Therefore the return time ratio was less than 50 .

In the DC component is superimposed on the AC component. Since the AC component has a square wave the return time ratio is less than 50 even without superimposing the DC component. When using the AC component having a waveform having the return time ratio of less than 50 without the DC component a sufficient image density was obtained both at the smooth portions and the recessed portions with the peak to peak voltage Vpp lower than when using the AC component having a waveform such as a sinusoidal waveform with the return time ratio of 50 without the DC component. This is because even when the electric field in the transfer direction is relatively weak a sufficient amount of toner particles is transferred from the belt surface to the smooth portions of the recording medium with a relatively long fall time in the transfer direction. Therefore using the AC component that provides the return time ratio less than 50 when using the AC component alone suppresses more reliably generation of toner voids than using the AC component having a waveform providing the return time ratio of 50 .

In Experiment 1 and Experiment 2 the AC component having a square wave as shown in and the return time ratio of 40 is employed. In Experiment 3 the same AC component as described above is used only in Condition 8.

In Experiment 9 fluctuation of the optimum value of the peak to peak voltage Vpp due to fluctuation of the amount of toner adhered to the intermediate transfer belt per unit area in the secondary transfer nip N was studied. A plurality of test images having different image areas was printed under different potential conditions. There is a correlation between an image area ratio of a toner image in the secondary transfer nip N and an amount of toner adhered to the intermediate transfer belt in the secondary transfer nip per unit area. Therefore obtaining the image area ratio means obtaining the amount of toner adhered to the belt in the secondary transfer nip per unit area.

As a recording medium LEATHAC 66 175 kg Sheet A was used. In the present experiment the DC bias of the superimposed bias as the secondary transfer bias was not under constant current control. The DC bias was under constant voltage control so that the output voltage of the DC bias was constant. The image density of the smooth portions and the recessed portions and toner voids in the test images having different image area ratios were visually evaluated. The potential conditions and the evaluation results of Experiment 9 are shown in the table in . In Voff represents an offset voltage Voff serving as the DC bias.

In Condition 22 had the same peak to peak voltage Vpp regardless of the image area ratios. In Condition 23 the peak to peak voltage Vpp was varied depending on the image area ratios. Based on the comparison between Conditions 22 and 23 it is understood that the necessary Vpp for transferring a sufficient amount of toner to the recessed portions of the recording medium increases as the image area ratio increases. However in a case in which the image area ratio was relatively high even when the peak to peak voltage Vpp was relatively high but the DC bias had the same level as that for a relatively low image area ratio such as in Condition 23 toner voids were generated due to electric discharge. In view of the above while keeping the target output value of the peak to peak voltage high in accordance with an increase in the image area ratio the target output value of the DC bias is reduced such as in Conditions 24 and 25. With this configuration toner voids are prevented while obtaining a sufficient image density at the recessed portions of the surface of the recording medium.

The foregoing description pertains to reducing the target output value of the DC bias under constant voltage control as the image area ratio increases. Alternatively the target output value of the DC bias under constant current control may be reduced. The target output value of the peak to peak voltage is set manually using an operation panel shown in by users or automatically by the image forming apparatus in accordance with the image area ratio.

With reference to a description is provided of a characteristic configuration of the image forming apparatus according to the present illustrative embodiment of the present disclosure.

Primary transfer bias power sources Y M C and K supply a primary transfer bias to the primary transfer rollers Y M C and K. As described above the secondary transfer bias power source outputs the secondary transfer bias to be applied to the secondary transfer back surface roller . An operation panel serving as an information receiving device includes a touch panel and a plurality of key buttons. The operation panel displays an image on the touch panel and receives obtains an instruction input by users through the touch panel or the key buttons. Users can enter a type of paper or recording media placed in the sheet tray through the operation panel . A type of paper or recording media includes but is not limited to surface conditions thereof such as SAZANAMI and LEATHAC 66 as well as a thickness for example 175 kg sheet i.e. Sheet A.

The secondary transfer bias power source outputs the peak to peak voltage Vpp of the AC component of the secondary transfer bias under constant voltage control while supplying the offset current Ioff of the DC component under constant current control. The controller controls the secondary transfer bias power source . It is to be noted that for the constant current control the actual output value of the offset current Ioff is measured by an ammeter and the result thereof is subjected to a process through which the level of the DC voltage is adjusted increased and decreased to coincide with the target output value. The position at which the actual output value of the offset current Ioff is measured is inside the secondary transfer bias power source in upstream from an output terminal of the secondary transfer bias power source for example.

Alternatively the actual output value of the offset current Ioff is measured outside the secondary transfer bias power source and near an electrode terminal contacting the metal cored bar of the secondary transfer back surface roller .

The ROM stores a data table showing relations between temperature and humidity and a proper combination of the target output value of the peak to peak voltage Vpp and the target output value of the offset Ioff for each type of paper or recording media. In the data table when it is a low temperature low humidity environment and the combination of the temperature value and the humidity value is the same the target output value of the peak to peak voltage Vpp is increased as the recording medium is of the type having higher electric resistance. While the target output value of the peak to peak voltage Vpp is increased the target output value of the offset current Ioff is reduced.

According to the present illustrative embodiment the target output value of the peak to peak voltage Vpp output under constant voltage control is changed in accordance with the transfer conditions such as temperature humidity an electric resistance of the recording medium and so forth. Furthermore the offset current Ioff is output under constant current control to control an amount of direct current flowing between the belt surface and the recording medium in the transfer nip. With this configuration in a high temperature high humidity environment in which the level of the peak to peak voltage Vpp of the AC bias does not have to be high the peak to peak voltage Vpp can be low but not too low so that electric discharge is not generated at the recessed portions of the recording medium in the secondary transfer nip.

Furthermore the secondary transfer electric field is formed between the belt surface and the smooth portions projecting portions and the recessed portions of the surface of the recording medium. With this configuration the image density is sufficient both at the projecting portions and the recessed portions of the surface of the recording medium thereby preventing a pattern of light and dark patches associated with the surface conditions of the recording medium.

By contrast in a low temperature low humidity environment in which the peak to peak voltage Vpp needs to be relatively high as the peak to peak voltage Vpp is increased the target output value of the offset current Ioff is reduced. With this configuration the transfer peak value Vt is reduced and the return peak value Vr is increased. Accordingly while the transfer peak value Vt is maintained at a level at which toner voids due to electric discharge are prevented the return peak value Vr is maintained at a level at which the toner particles in the recessed portions of the surface of the recording medium are returned reliably to the surface of the image bearing surface.

Reducing the target output value of the offset current Ioff reduces the flow of direct current in the recording medium. Thus although the image density of both recessed portions and the projecting portions of the recording medium surface is relatively low toner voids and a lower image density at the recessed portions than at the projecting portions are prevented. Accordingly a pattern of light and dark patches associated with the surface roughness or surface conditions of the recording medium is prevented.

As described above according to the present illustrative embodiment regardless of the environment a pattern of light and dark patches according to the surface roughness of the recording medium is prevented. It is to be noted that while selecting a standard peak to peak voltage value that increases as the temperature and the humidity become low a correction shift value that increases as the electric resistance of the recording medium increases is selected and a sum of both values is set as the target output value of the peak to peak voltage. With this configuration the peak to peak voltage is more optimized as compared with setting the peak to peak voltage value based only on the environment conditions.

Instead of employing the AC bias under constant voltage control the AC bias under constant current control may be employed. In this case in accordance with a result provided by an information receiving device such as the temperature detector the humidity detector and the operation panel the target output value of the current of the AC bias output from the transfer bias output device is changed such that the peak to peak voltage of the AC bias obtains the target value.

Although the relationship between the current and the voltage of the transfer bias changes due to resistance at the transfer portion the following configuration can accommodate such a change in the resistance. For example the relationship between the current and the voltage when the transfer condition e.g. humidity changes from high humidity to low humidity is obtained in advance through experiments or calculations. Then the target output value of the current is changed such that the peak to peak voltage of the AC bias obtains the target value both in the high humidity environment and the low humidity environment.

In addition to changing the bias value in accordance with the humidity the bias value may be changed in accordance with other transfer conditions. For example as explained in Experiment 9 as the image area ratio which is one of the transfer conditions increases an absolute value of the target output value of the peak to peak voltage is increased while reducing the absolute value of the target output value of the DC bias.

With reference to variations of the image forming apparatus are described below. The same reference numerals used in will be given to constituent elements such as parts and materials having the same functions and the descriptions thereof will be omitted.

With reference to a description is provided of a first variation of the image forming apparatus. is a schematic diagram illustrating a portion of the image forming unit employed in the first variation of the image forming apparatus. As illustrated in the image forming apparatus of the present variation includes one image forming unit for forming a toner image of a single color. In the image forming unit includes the photosensitive drum rotated by a driving device in the clockwise direction.

Although not illustrated similar to the illustrative embodiment shown in a cleaning device a charge remover a charging device a developing device and so forth are provided around the photosensitive drum . A transfer roller serving as a nip forming member is disposed below the photosensitive drum . The transfer roller is pressed against and contacts the photosensitive drum by a biasing device thereby forming a transfer nip therebetween. A recording medium P is sent to the transfer nip. The toner image on the photosensitive drum is transferred onto the recording medium P in the transfer nip.

An example of the transfer roller includes but is not limited to a roller the circumferential surface of which is covered with a conductive foam layer and a roller with a metal cored bar covered with a conductive elastic layer.

After the toner image is formed on the recording medium P as the recording medium P passes through the fixing nip the recording medium P is delivered to a fixing device and the toner image is fixed to the recording medium P. After the fixing process in the case of double sided printing the recording medium P is delivered to the fixing nip again by a duplex printing unit thereby forming a toner image on the other side of the recording medium.

The secondary transfer roller is supplied with a secondary transfer bias from a transfer bias power source . The secondary transfer bias power source serves also as a potential difference generator. Similar to the secondary transfer bias power source of the illustrative embodiment of the present disclosure the transfer bias power source includes a DC power source and an AC power source. Similar to the secondary transfer bias of the illustrative embodiment in a high temperature high humidity environment in which the level of the peak to peak voltage Vpp of the AC bias does not have to be high the peak to peak voltage Vpp is low but not too low so that electric discharge is not generated at the recessed portions of the recording medium in the secondary transfer nip and an effective transfer electric field is formed between the surface of the photosensitive drum and the projections and recessed portions of the surface of the recording medium. With this configuration the image density is sufficient both at the projecting portions and the recessed portions of the surface of the recording medium thereby preventing a pattern of light and dark patches associated with the surface conditions of the recording medium.

By contrast in a low temperature low humidity environment in which the peak to peak voltage Vpp needs to be relatively high the target output value of the offset current Ioff is reduced as the peak to peak voltage Vpp is increased. With this configuration the transfer peak value Vt is reduced and the return peak value Vr is increased.

According to the present illustrative embodiment toner having negative polarity is electrostatically repelled by the secondary transfer back surface roller to which the secondary transfer bias is applied thereby transferring electrostatically the toner image from the secondary transfer back surface roller to the nip forming roller side. By contrast according to Variation 1 the toner having negative polarity on the photosensitive drum is electrostatically attracted to the transfer roller to which the transfer bias is applied. Accordingly the toner image is transferred electrostatically from the photosensitive drum to the transfer roller side. Thus the transfer bias power source is configured to output the transfer bias having the same waveform as the one shown in .

With reference to a description is provided of a second variation of the image forming apparatus. is a schematic diagram illustrating a portion of the image forming unit and a sheet conveyer unit employed in the second variation of the image forming apparatus. As illustrated in the image forming apparatus of the present variation includes one image forming unit for forming a toner image of a single color. In the image forming unit includes the photosensitive drum rotated by a driving device in the clockwise direction.

Although not illustrated similar to the illustrative embodiment shown in a drum cleaning device a charge remover a charging device a developing device and so forth are provided around the photosensitive drum . The sheet conveyer unit is disposed substantially below the photosensitive drum .

As illustrated in the sheet conveyer unit includes a sheet conveyor belt a drive roller and a driven roller . The sheet conveyor belt is formed into an endless loop and entrained around the drive roller and the driven roller . The sheet conveyor belt is rotated endlessly in the counterclockwise direction. The sheet conveyor belt serving as the nip forming member contacts the photosensitive drum thereby forming the transfer nip therebetween.

A transfer brush and a transfer roller both of which are disposed in the loop formed by the sheet conveyor belt are disposed near the transfer nip and contact the rear surface of the sheet conveyor belt . The secondary transfer bias power source serving as a potential difference generator applies a transfer bias to the transfer brush and the secondary transfer roller .

The recording medium is fed to the transfer nip at which the photosensitive drum and the sheet conveyor belt meet by a pair of registration rollers . The toner image on the photosensitive drum is transferred onto the recording medium in the transfer nip.

An example of the transfer roller includes but is not limited to a roller the circumferential surface of which is covered with a conductive foam layer and a roller with a metal cored bar covered with a conductive elastic layer. An example of the transfer brush includes a brush including a conductive support member on which a plurality of bristles made of conductive fiber is provided.

The recording medium P on which the toner image is formed as the recording medium P passes through the fixing nip is delivered to the fixing device and the toner image is fixed to the recording medium. After the fixing process in the case of double sided printing the recording medium P is delivered to the fixing nip again by a duplex printing unit thereby forming a toner image on the other side of the recording medium.

In the transfer brush contacts a portion of the sheet conveyor belt at which the sheet conveyor belt is interposed between the photosensitive drum and the sheet conveyor belt and downstream from the center of the transfer nip in the direction of movement of the sheet conveyor belt . Alternatively the transfer brush may contact the sheet conveyor belt at the center of the transfer nip. The transfer brush is disposed upstream from the transfer roller in the direction of movement of the sheet conveyor belt . Alternatively the transfer brush is disposed downstream from the transfer roller in the direction of movement of the sheet conveyor belt . Still alternatively one of the transfer brush and the transfer roller may be disposed.

The transfer brush and the transfer roller are supplied with a secondary transfer bias from the secondary transfer bias power source . The secondary transfer bias power source serves also as a potential difference generator. Similar to the secondary transfer bias power source of the illustrative embodiment of the present disclosure the transfer bias power source includes the DC power source and the AC power source. The transfer bias power source can output a DC bias consisting only of a DC voltage and a superimposed bias including an AC voltage superimposed on a DC voltage.

The transfer roller is supplied with a transfer bias from the transfer bias power source . Similar to the secondary transfer bias of the image forming apparatus of Variation 1 in a high temperature high humidity environment in which the level of the peak to peak voltage Vpp of the AC bias does not have to be high the peak to peak voltage Vpp is low but not too low so that electric discharge is not generated at the recessed portions of the recording medium in the secondary transfer nip and an effective transfer electric field is formed between the surface of the photosensitive drum and the projections and recessed portions of the surface of the recording medium. With this configuration a sufficient image density is attained both at the projecting portions and the recessed portions of the surface of the recording medium thereby preventing a pattern of light and dark patches associated with the surface conditions of the recording medium.

By contrast in a low temperature low humidity environment in which the peak to peak voltage Vpp needs to be relatively high the target output value of the offset current Ioff is reduced as the peak to peak voltage Vpp is increased. With this configuration the transfer peak value Vt is reduced and the return peak value Vr is increased.

According to the image forming apparatus of the present variation the toner having negative polarity on the photosensitive drum is electrostatically attracted to the transfer roller to which the transfer bias is applied. Accordingly the toner image is transferred electrostatically from the photosensitive drum toward the transfer roller . For this reason the superimposed bias having the same waveform as that of the first variation Variation 1 is used. The average absolute value per unit time of the superimposed bias is less than the absolute value of the DC bias consisting only of the DC voltage described above.

With reference to a description is provided of a third variation of the image forming apparatus. is a schematic diagram illustrating a portion of an image forming units and a transfer unit employed in the third variation of the image forming apparatus. Similar to the illustrative embodiment shown in a cleaning device a charge remover a charging device a developing device and so forth are provided around each of the photosensitive drums Y M C and K.

A transfer unit is disposed substantially below the photosensitive drums Y M C and K. As illustrated in the transfer unit includes a transfer conveyor belt formed into an endless loop and entrained around a plurality of rollers four transfer rollers Y M C and K a separation roller a drive roller a first driven roller a second driven roller an entrance roller and so forth. The transfer conveyor belt is rotated endlessly in the counterclockwise direction by the drive roller .

The transfer conveyor belt is interposed between the photosensitive drums Y M C and K and the transfer rollers Y M C and K. The outer peripheral surface or the image bearing surface of the transfer conveyor belt serving as the nip forming member contacts the photosensitive drums Y M C and K thereby forming the transfer nips for the colors yellow magenta cyan and black therebetween.

A sheet suction roller is disposed outside the looped transfer conveyor belt and contacts the transfer conveyor belt entrained around the entrance roller thereby forming a sheet suction nip therebetween. A belt cleaning device contacts the transfer conveyor belt entrained around the drive roller thereby forming a cleaning nip therebetween.

An example of the transfer rollers Y M C and K includes but is not limited to a roller the circumferential surface of which is covered with a conductive foam layer and a roller with a metal cored bar covered with a conductive elastic layer. The transfer rollers Y M C and K are supplied with a transfer bias from transfer bias power sources Y M C and K. With this configuration a transfer electric field that electrostatically transfers toner from the photosensitive drum side to transfer roller side is formed between each of the transfer rollers Y M C and K and the electrostatic latent images on the photosensitive drums Y M C and K.

The sheet suction roller is supplied with a sheet suction bias from a sheet suction bias power source. The pair of the registration rollers is disposed substantially near the sheet suction roller and feeds the recording medium to the sheet suction nip at a predetermined timing. The recording medium in the sheet suction nip between the sheet suction roller and the transfer conveyor belt is attracted to the outer peripheral surface of the transfer conveyor belt by the electrostatic force. The sheet conveyor belt rotates while carrying the recording medium on the surface thereof and passes through each transfer nip. The toner images of yellow magenta cyan and black are transferred onto the recording medium such that they are superimposed one atop the other thereby forming a composite toner image.

The recording medium passing through the last transfer nip in the transfer process that is the transfer nip for the color black is delivered to the position opposite the separation roller as the transfer conveyor belt moves. At this position the transfer conveyor belt is wound at a relatively large winding angle around the separation roller . Consequently the direction of movement changes suddenly. As a result the recording medium electrostatically adhered to the surface of the transfer conveyor belt cannot follow the sudden change in the direction of movement thereby separating or self stripping from the surface of the belt.

The recording medium separated from the transfer conveyor belt in such a manner is delivered to the fixing device in which the composite toner image is fixed onto the recording medium. After the fixing process in the case of double sided printing the recording medium is delivered to the pair of the registration rollers by the duplex printing unit thereby forming a toner image on the other side of the recording medium.

The transfer bias power sources Y M C and K serve also as potential difference generators. Similar to the secondary transfer bias power source of the illustrative embodiment of the present disclosure the transfer bias power sources Y M C and K include the DC power source and the AC power source. The transfer bias power sources Y M C and K can output a DC bias consisting only of a DC voltage and a superimposed bias including an AC voltage superimposed on a DC voltage.

Similar to the secondary transfer bias power source of the illustrative embodiment of the present disclosure the transfer bias power sources Y M C and K include the DC power source and the AC power source.

Similar to the secondary transfer bias of the illustrative embodiment in a high temperature high humidity environment in which the level of the peak to peak voltage Vpp of the AC bias does not have to be high the peak to peak voltage Vpp is low but not too low so that electric discharge is not generated at the recessed portions of the recording medium in the secondary transfer nip and an effective transfer electric field is formed between the surface of the photosensitive drum and the projections and recessed portions of the surface of the recording medium. With this configuration the image density is sufficient both at the projecting portions and the recessed portions of the surface of the recording medium thereby preventing a pattern of light and dark patches associated with the surface conditions of the recording medium.

By contrast in a low temperature low humidity environment in which the peak to peak voltage Vpp needs to be relatively high the target output value of the offset current Ioff is reduced as the peak to peak voltage Vpp is increased. Accordingly the transfer peak value Vt is reduced and the return peak value Vr is increased.

According to the image forming apparatus of the present variation the toner having negative polarity on the photosensitive drums Y M C and K is electrostatically attracted to the transfer rollers Y M C and K to which the transfer bias is applied. Accordingly the toner images are transferred electrostatically from the photosensitive drums Y M C and K toward the transfer rollers Y M C and K. For this reason the superimposed bias having the same waveform as that of the first variation Variation 1 is employed. The average absolute value per unit time of the superimposed bias is less than the absolute value of the DC bias consisting only of the DC voltage described above.

With reference to a description is provided of a fourth variation of the image forming apparatus. is a schematic diagram illustrating a main section of the fourth variation of the image forming apparatus. In the image forming units Y M C and K include charge erasing lamps Y M C and K the charging devices Y M C and K the developing devices Y M C and K latent image writing devices Y M C and K and so forth respectively. The image forming unit Y M C and K all have the same configurations as all the others deferring only in the color of toner employed. Thus the description is provided of the image forming unit K as a representative example of the image forming units . The latent image writing device K writes optically an electrostatic latent image on the surface of the photosensitive drum K.

The intermediate transfer belt of the transfer unit moves in the clockwise direction and passes through the primary transfer nips of yellow magenta cyan and black accordingly. Thus a composite toner image in which the toner images of yellow magenta cyan and black are superimposed one atop the other is formed on the outer peripheral surface of the intermediate transfer belt .

A sheet conveyer unit is disposed substantially below the transfer unit to move a sheet conveyor belt formed into a loop. As illustrated in the sheet conveyer unit includes the sheet conveyor belt a drive roller and a secondary transfer pressing roller . The sheet conveyor belt is formed into an endless loop and entrained around the drive roller and the secondary transfer pressing roller . The sheet conveyor belt is rotated endlessly in the counterclockwise direction by rotation of the drive roller .

In the sheet conveyor unit a portion of the sheet conveyor belt entrained around the secondary transfer pressing roller in the circumferential direction contacts the intermediate transfer belt wound around the secondary transfer back surface roller . Accordingly the outer peripheral surface or the image bearing surface of the intermediate transfer belt contacts the outer peripheral surface of the sheet conveyor belt serving as the nip forming member thereby forming a secondary transfer nip therebetween.

A secondary transfer bias is applied to the secondary transfer back surface roller by the secondary transfer bias power source of the illustrative embodiment. The secondary transfer pressing roller of the sheet conveyor unit is grounded. Near and in the secondary transfer nip a secondary transfer electric field is formed between the secondary transfer back surface roller and the secondary transfer pressing roller .

The recording medium is sent to the secondary transfer nip by the pair of registration rollers . Subsequently in the secondary transfer nip the composite toner image on the intermediate transfer belt is transferred secondarily onto the recording medium. The recording medium passes through the secondary transfer nip as the sheet conveyor belt moves while the recording medium is electrostatically adhered to the outer peripheral surface of the sheet conveyor belt . Then the recording medium comes to the position opposite the drive roller disposed inside the loop of the sheet conveyor belt . At this position the sheet conveyor belt is wound at a relatively large angle around the drive roller thereby changing the direction of movement suddenly.

As a result the recording medium electrostatically adhered to the surface of the sheet conveyor belt cannot follow the sudden change in the direction of movement thereby separating or self stripping from the surface of the belt.

The recording medium separated from the sheet conveyor belt in such a manner is delivered to the fixing device in which the composite toner image is fixed onto the recording medium. After the fixing process in the case of double sided printing the recording medium is delivered to the pair of registration rollers by the duplex printing unit thereby forming a toner image on the other side of the recording medium.

Similar to the secondary transfer bias power source of the illustrative embodiment of the present disclosure the transfer bias power source of the image forming apparatus of the present variation includes the DC power source and the AC power source.

In a high temperature high humidity environment in which the level of the peak to peak voltage Vpp of the AC bias does not have to be high the peak to peak voltage Vpp is low but not too low so that electric discharge is not generated at the recessed portions of the recording medium in the transfer nip and in the meantime an effective transfer electric field is formed between the belt surface and the projections and recessed portions of the surface of the recording medium. With this configuration a sufficient image density is attained both at the projecting portions and the recessed portions of the surface of the recording medium thereby preventing a pattern of light and dark patches associated with the surface conditions of the recording medium.

By contrast in a low temperature low humidity environment in which the peak to peak voltage Vpp needs to be relatively high as the peak to peak voltage Vpp is increased the target output value of the offset current Ioff is reduced. Accordingly the transfer peak value Vt is reduced while increasing the return peak value Vr.

It is to be noted that the secondary transfer back surface roller may be grounded while the secondary transfer bias is applied to the secondary transfer pressing roller .

The above described image forming apparatus is an example of the image forming apparatus of the present invention. The present invention includes the following embodiments. According to an aspect of this disclosure an image forming apparatus includes an image bearing member e.g. the intermediate transfer belt to bear a toner image on a surface thereof a nip forming member e.g. the nip forming roller to contact the surface of the image bearing member to form a transfer nip therebetween a transfer bias output device e.g. the secondary transfer bias power source to output a transfer bias to form a transfer electric field including an alternating electric field in the transfer nip to transfer the toner image from the image bearing member onto a recording medium interposed in the transfer nip the transfer bias including a superimposed bias in which an alternating current AC bias is superimposed on a direct current DC bias an information receiving device e.g. the operation panel the temperature detector and the humidity detector to receive information that affects transfer of the toner image from the image bearing member to the recording medium in the transfer nip and a controller e.g. the controller operatively connected to the information receiving device and the transfer bias output device to cause the transfer bias output device to change a target output value of a peak to peak voltage of the AC bias based on the information received by the information receiving device such that a target output value of the DC bias decreases as the target output value of the peak to peak voltage of the AC bias increases.

According to an aspect of this disclosure the controller e.g. the controller controls the transfer bias output device the secondary transfer bias power source to output the DC bias under constant current control such that the target output value of the DC bias under constant current control decreases as the target output value of the peak to peak voltage increases. By supplying the DC bias under constant current control a certain level of the DC current flows in the recording medium even when the electrical resistance thereof changes.

According to an aspect of this disclosure the controller controls the transfer bias output device to output the DC bias under constant voltage control such that the target output value of the DC bias under constant voltage control decreases as the target output value of the peak to peak voltage increases.

According to an aspect of this disclosure the information received by the information receiving device includes temperature and the controller controls the transfer bias output device to increase the target output value of the peak to peak voltage as the temperature received by the information receiving device decreases. With this configuration even when the electrical resistance of a device for example the secondary transfer back surface roller to which a secondary transfer bias is applied increases as the temperature decreases a sufficient alternating electric field is formed in the transfer nip.

According to an aspect of this disclosure the information received by the information receiving device includes humidity and the controller controls the transfer bias output device to increase the target output value of the peak to peak voltage as the humidity received by the information receiving device decreases. With this configuration even when the electrical resistance of a device for example the secondary transfer back surface roller to which a secondary transfer bias is applied increases as the humidity decreases a sufficient alternating electric field is formed in the transfer nip.

According to an aspect of this disclosure the information received by the information receiving device includes a thickness of the recording medium delivered to the transfer nip and the controller controls the transfer bias output device to increase the target output value of the peak to peak voltage as the thickness obtained by the information receiving device increases. With this configuration even when the electrical resistance of the recording medium increases due to an increase in the thickness thereof a sufficient alternating electric field is formed in the transfer nip.

According to an aspect of this disclosure the information received by the information receiving device includes a surface condition including a depth of a recessed portion of the recording medium delivered to the transfer nip and the controller controls the transfer bias output device to increase the target output value of the peak to peak voltage as the depth of the recessed portion of the surface of the recording medium obtained by the information receiving device increases. With this configuration even when an optimum value of the return peak Vr increases due to an increase in the depth of the recessed portion of the surface of the recording medium a sufficient alternating electric field is formed in the transfer nip.

According to an aspect of this disclosure the information received by the information receiving device includes an amount of toner adhered to the surface of the image bearing member per unit area and the controller controls the transfer bias output device to increase the target output value of the peak to peak voltage as the amount of toner adhered to the surface of the image bearing member obtained by the information receiving device increases. With this configuration even when an optimum value of the transfer peak value Vt increases due to an increase in the amount of the adhered toner a sufficient alternating electric field is formed in the transfer nip.

According to an aspect of this disclosure the controller controls the transfer bias output device to output the AC bias under constant voltage control.

According to an aspect of this disclosure the controller controls the transfer bias output device to output the transfer bias such that a time averaged potential of the superimposed bias in one cycle is shifted from a center value between a maximum potential and a minimum potential in one cycle toward a value at which the toner is transferred more easily from the image bearing member to the recording medium in the transfer nip. With this configuration the return time ratio of the AC component alone is below 50 which reduces a level of an optimum peak to peak voltage Vpp thus preventing toner voids as compared with the return time ratio of 50 .

According to an aspect of this disclosure the superimposed bias output as the transfer bias by the transfer bias output device has alternately a positive polarity and a negative polarity for a certain duration in one cycle and the duration of the positive polarity or the second polarity whichever causes the toner to return from the recording medium to the image bearing member is equal to or greater than 0.03 milliseconds msec . With this configuration the toner particles having been transferred to the recessed portions of the recording medium are returned effectively to the belt surface thereby preventing insufficient image density at the recessed portions.

According to an aspect of this disclosure the following relation is satisfied f 4 d v where f is a frequency Hz of the AC bias d is a width mm of the transfer nip in a direction of rotation of the image bearing member and v is a speed of rotation mm s of the image bearing member. With this configuration as described above a periodical unevenness of image density caused by insufficient back and forth movement of toner between the recording medium and the image bearing member in the transfer nip is prevented.

According to an aspect of this disclosure an image forming apparatus comprising includes an image bearing member to bear a toner image on a surface thereof a nip forming member to contact the surface of the image bearing member to form a transfer nip therebetween a transfer bias output device to output a transfer bias to form a transfer electric field including an alternating electric field in the transfer nip to transfer the toner image from the image bearing member onto a recording medium interposed in the transfer nip the transfer bias including a superimposed bias in which an alternating current AC bias is superimposed on a direct current DC bias an information receiving device to receive information including at least one of temperature humidity a thickness of the recording medium delivered to the transfer nip a surface condition of the recording medium including a depth of a recessed portion thereof and an amount of toner adhered to the surface of the image bearing member per unit area and a controller operatively connected to the information receiving device and the transfer bias output device to cause the transfer bias output device to change a target output value of a peak to peak voltage of the AC bias based on the information received by the information receiving device such that a target output value of the DC bias decreases as the target output value of the peak to peak voltage of the AC bias increases.

According to an aspect of this disclosure the controller controls the transfer bias output device to output the DC bias under constant current control such that the target output value of the DC bias under constant current control decreases as the target output value of the peak to peak voltage increases.

According to an aspect of this disclosure the controller controls the transfer bias output device to output the AC bias under constant voltage control.

According to an aspect of this disclosure the above described embodiments are employed in the image forming apparatus. The image forming apparatus includes but is not limited to an electrophotographic image forming apparatus a copier a printer a facsimile machine and a digital multi functional system.

Furthermore it is to be understood that elements and or features of different illustrative embodiments may be combined with each other and or substituted for each other within the scope of this disclosure and appended claims. In addition the number of constituent elements locations shapes and so forth of the constituent elements are not limited to any of the structure for performing the methodology illustrated in the drawings.

Each of the functions of the described embodiments may be implemented by one or more processing circuits. A processing circuit includes a programmed processor as a processor includes a circuitry. A processing circuit also includes devices such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC and conventional circuit components arranged to perform the recited functions.

Example embodiments being thus described it will be obvious that the same may be varied in many ways. Such exemplary variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the scope of the present invention and all such modifications as would be obvious to one skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of the following claims.

