---

title: Slitted tissue fixation devices and assemblies for deploying the same
abstract: Tissue fasteners carried on a tissue piercing deployment wire fasten tissue layers of a mammalian body together include a first member, a second member, and a connecting member extending between the first and second members. One of the first and second members has a configuration alterable by a deployment wire to permit release of the fastener from the deployment wire after deployment and without causing excessive tissue trauma.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09572578&OS=09572578&RS=09572578
owner: EndoGastric Solutions, Inc.
number: 09572578
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160511
---
This application is a division of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 680 944 filed Nov. 19 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 803 077 filed Jun. 17 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 337 514 issued Dec. 25 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 043 903 filed Jan. 25 2005 now abandoned the entire disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

The present invention generally relates to tissue fixation devices and more particularly to devices for treating gastroesophageal reflux disease using the same. The present invention more particularly relates to such tissue fixation devices which may be used in surgical environments and which are self deploying.

Gastroesophageal reflux disease GERD is a chronic condition caused by the failure of the anti reflux barrier located at the gastroesophageal junction to keep the contents of the stomach from splashing into the esophagus. The splashing is known as gastroesophageal reflux. The stomach acid is designed to digest meat and will digest esophageal tissue when persistently splashed into the esophagus.

A principal reason for regurgitation associated with GERD is the mechanical failure of a deteriorated gastroesophageal flap to close and seal against high pressure in the stomach. Due to reasons including lifestyle a Grade I normal gastroesophageal flap may deteriorate into a malfunctioning Grade III or absent valve Grade IV gastroesophageal flap. With a deteriorated gastroesophageal flap the stomach contents are more likely to be regurgitated into the esophagus the mouth and even the lungs. The regurgitation is referred to as heartburn because the most common symptom is a burning discomfort in the chest under the breastbone. Burning discomfort in the chest and regurgitation burping up of sour tasting gastric juice into the mouth are classic symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease GERD . When stomach acid is regurgitated into the esophagus it is usually cleared quickly by esophageal contractions. Heartburn backwashing of stomach acid and bile onto the esophagus results when stomach acid is frequently regurgitated into the esophagus and the esophageal wall is inflamed.

Complications develop for some people who have GERD. Esophagitis inflammation of the esophagus with erosions and ulcerations breaks in the lining of the esophagus can occur from repeated and prolonged acid exposure. If these breaks are deep bleeding or scarring of the esophagus with formation of a stricture narrowing of the esophagus can occur. If the esophagus narrows significantly then food sticks in the esophagus and the symptom is known as dysphagia. GERD has been shown to be one of the most important risk factors for the development of esophageal adenocarcinoma. In a subset of people who have severe GERD if acid exposure continues the injured squamous lining is replaced by a precancerous lining called Barrett s Esophagus in which a cancerous esophageal adenocarcinoma can develop.

Other complications of GERD may not appear to be related to esophageal disease at all. Some people with GERD may develop recurrent pneumonia lung infection asthma wheezing or a chronic cough from acid backing up into the esophagus and all the way up through the upper esophageal sphincter into the lungs. In many instances this occurs at night while the person is in a supine position and sleeping. Occasionally a person with severe GERD will be awakened from sleep with a choking sensation. Hoarseness can also occur due to acid reaching the vocal cords causing a chronic inflammation or injury.

GERD never improves without intervention. Life style changes combined with both medical and surgical treatments exist for GERD. Medical therapies include antacids and proton pump inhibitors. However the medical therapies only mask the reflux. Patients still get reflux and perhaps emphysema because of particles refluxed into the lungs. Barrett s esophagus results in about 10 of the GERD cases. The esophageal epithelium changes into tissue that tends to become cancerous from repeated acid washing despite the medication.

Several open laparotomy and laproscopic surgical procedures are available for treating GERD. One surgical approach is the Nissen fundoplication. The Nissen approach typically involves a 360 degree wrap of the fundus around the gastroesophageal junction. The procedure has a high incidence of postoperative complications. The Nissen approach creates a 360 degree moveable flap without a fixed portion. Hence Nissen does not restore the normal movable flap. The patient cannot burp because the fundus was used to make the repair and may frequently experience dysphagia. Another surgical approach to treating GERD is the Belsey Mark IV Belsey fundoplication. The Belsey procedure involves creating a valve by suturing a portion of the stomach to an anterior surface of the esophagus. It reduces some of the postoperative complications encountered with the Nissen fundoplication but still does not restore the normal movable flap. None of these procedures fully restores the normal anatomical anatomy or produces a normally functioning gastroesophageal junction. Another surgical approach is the Hill repair. In the Hill repair the gastroesophageal junction is anchored to the posterior abdominal areas and a 180 degree valve is created by a system of sutures. The Hill procedure restores the moveable flap the cardiac notch and the Angle of His. However all of these surgical procedures are very invasive regardless of whether done as a laproscopic or an open procedure.

New less surgically invasive approaches to treating GERD involve transoral endoscopic procedures. One procedure contemplates a machine device with robotic arms that is inserted transorally into the stomach. While observing through an endoscope an endoscopist guides the machine within the stomach to engage a portion of the fundus with a corkscrew like device on one arm. The arm then pulls on the engaged portion to create a fold of tissue or radial plication at the gastroesophageal junction. Another arm of the machine pinches the excess tissue together and fastens the excess tissue with one pre tied implant. This procedure does not restore normal anatomy. The fold created does not have anything in common with a valve. In fact the direction of the radial fold prevents the fold or plication from acting as a flap of a valve.

Another transoral procedure contemplates making a fold of fundus tissue near the deteriorated gastroesophageal flap to recreate the lower esophageal sphincter LES . The procedure requires placing multiple U shaped tissue clips around the folded fundus to hold it in shape and in place.

This and the previously discussed procedure are both highly dependent on the skill experience aggressiveness and courage of the endoscopist. In addition these and other procedures may involve esophageal tissue in the repair. Esophageal tissue is fragile and weak in part due to the fact that the esophagus is not covered by serosa a layer of very sturdy yet very thin tissue covering and stabilizing all intraabdominal organs similar like a fascia covering and stabilizing muscle. Involvement of esophageal tissue in the repair of a gastroesophageal flap valve poses unnecessary risks to the patient such as an increased risk of fistulas between the esophagus and the stomach.

A new and improved apparatus and method for restoration of a gastroesophageal flap valve is fully disclosed in copending U.S. application Ser. No. 10 150 740 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 790 214 filed May 17 2002 for TRANSORAL ENDOSCOPIC GASTROESOPHAGEAL FLAP VALVE RESTORATION DEVICE ASSEMBLY SYSTEM AND METHOD is assigned to the assignee of this invention and is incorporated herein by reference. That apparatus and method provides a transoral endoscopic gastroesophageal flap valve restoration. A longitudinal member arranged for transoral placement into a stomach carries a tissue shaper that non invasively grips and shapes stomach tissue. A tissue fixation device is then deployed to maintain the shaped stomach tissue in a shape approximating a gastroesophageal flap.

Whenever tissue is to be maintained in a shape as for example in the improved assembly last mentioned above it is necessary to fasten at least two layers of tissue together. In applications such as gastroesophageal flap valve restoration there is very limited room to maneuver a fastener deployment device. For example this and other medical fastening applications provide confined working channels and spaces and often must be fed through an endoscope to permit visualization or other small lumen guide catheters to the place where the fasteners are to be deployed. To make matters worse multiple fasteners may also be required. Hence with current fasteners and deployment arrangements it is often difficult to direct a single fastener to its intended location let alone a number of such fasteners.

Once the fastening site is located the fasteners employed must be truly able to securely maintain the tissue. Still further the fastener must be readily deployable. Also quite obviously the fasteners are preferably deployable in the tissue in a manner which does not unduly traumatize the tissue.

The invention provides a fastener for use in a mammalian body. The fastener comprises a first member and a second member wherein the first and second members have first and second ends. The fastener further comprises a connecting member fixed to each of the first and second members intermediate the first and second ends and extending between the first and second members. The first and second members are separated by the connecting member and one of the first and second members has a through channel along the axis arranged to be slidingly received on a tissue piercing deployment wire and a slit extending between the first and second ends and communicating with the through channel.

The slit is substantially parallel to the through channel. The slit may include an elongated slot portion dimensioned to receive the tissue piercing deployment wire. The slit further has a width less than the diameter of the through channel.

The invention further provides a fastener assembly for use in a mammalian body comprising a fastener including a first member and a second member. The first and second members have first and second ends. The fastener further comprises a connecting member fixed to each of the first and second members intermediate the first and second ends and extending between the first and second members. The first and second members are separated by the connecting member and one of the first and second members has a longitudinal axis a through channel along the axis and a slit between the first and second ends and communicating with the through channel. The assembly further comprises a deployment wire arranged to be slidingly received by the through channel of the one of the first and second members and to pierce into the tissue. The deployment wire is arranged to be received by the slit to enable early deployment of the one of the first and second members and reduced tissue compression. The assembly further comprises a pusher that pushes the one of first and second members into the tissue while on the deployment wire.

The invention further comprises a fastener assembly for use in a mammalian body compromising a fastener including a first member and a second member wherein the first and second members have first and second ends. The fastener further comprises a connecting member fixed to each of the first and second members intermediate the first and second ends and extends between and separates the first and second members. The one of the first and second members has a longitudinal axis a through channel along the axis and a slit extending between the first and second ends and communicating with the through channel. The assembly further comprises a deployment wire arranged to be slidingly received by the through channel of the one of the first and second members and has a pointed tip to pierce into tissue the pointed tip having a cross sectional dimension equal to or greater than the cross sectional dimension of the through channel. The assembly further comprises a pusher that pushes the one of first and second members into the tissue while on the deployment wire.

The invention still further provides a fastener assembly for use in a mammalian body comprising a deployment wire having an end arranged to pierce into tissue to be fastened a fastener including a member having a through channel dimensioned to be slidingly received on the deployment wire and a pusher that pushes the fastener into the tissue while on the deployment wire. The pusher is tubular having a distal end a sidewall a lumen and an opening in the sidewall communicating with the lumen. The pusher is carried on the deployment wire with the deployment wire extending through the sidewall opening into the lumen and beyond the distal end of the pusher. The fastener member is carried on the deployment wire between the deployment wire end and the distal end of the pusher arranged to pierce into the tissue upon being pushed by the pusher.

The invention further provides a fastener for use in a mammalian body comprising a first member a second member the first and second members having first and second ends and a connecting member fixed to each of the first and second members intermediate the first and second ends and extending between the first and second members. The first and second members are separated by the connecting member and one of the first and second members has a through channel arranged to be slidingly received on a tissue piercing deployment wire and a configuration alterable by the tissue piercing deployment wire that permits release of the fastener from the tissue piercing deployment wire.

The configuration of the one of the first and second members is alterable by being tearable by the tissue piercing deployment wire. The member may have a sidewall that is tearable by the tissue piercing deployment wire. The sidewall may have a varying thickness such as by a scoring line to assist in the sidewall tearing.

Alternatively the configuration of the one of the first and second members may be alterable by being deformable by the tissue piercing deployment wire. The member may have a sidewall that is deformable by the tissue piercing deployment wire. The sidewall may include a lengthwise slit. The lengthwise slit may be continuous from the first end to the second end. The slit may include a slot portion.

The invention still further provides a fastener assembly for use in a mammalian body comprising a fastener including a first member a second member the first and second members having first and second ends and a connecting member fixed to each of the first and second members intermediate the first and second ends and extending between the first and second members. The first and second members are separated by the connecting member and one of the first and second members has a longitudinal axis and a through channel along the axis. The assembly further includes a deployment wire arranged to be slidingly received by the through channel of the one of the first and second members and to pierce into the tissue and a pusher that pushes the one of first and second members into the tissue while on the deployment wire. The one of the first and second members has a configuration that is alterable by the tissue piercing deployment wire that permits release of the fastener from the tissue piercing deployment wire upon relative movement of the one of the first and second members and the tissue piercing deployment wire.

The pusher is tubular having a distal end a sidewall a lumen and an opening in the sidewall communicating with the lumen. The pusher is carried on the tissue piercing deployment wire which extends through the sidewall opening into the lumen and beyond the distal end of the pusher. The one of the first and second members is carried on the deployment wire between the deployment wire end and the distal end of the pusher to be arranged to pierce into the tissue upon being pushed by the pusher.

The esophageal tract is controlled by an upper esophageal sphincter UES in the neck near the mouth for swallowing and by the LES and the GEFV at the stomach. The normal anti reflux barrier is primarily formed by the LES and the GEFV acting in concert to allow food and liquid to enter the stomach and to considerably resist reflux of stomach contents into the esophagus past the gastroesophageal tissue junction . Tissue aboral of the gastroesophageal tissue junction is generally considered part of the stomach because the tissue protected from stomach acid by its own protective mechanisms. Tissue oral of the gastroesophageal junction is generally considered part of the esophagus and it is not protected from injury by prolonged exposure to stomach acid. At the gastroesophageal junction the juncture of the stomach and esophageal tissues form a zigzag line which is sometimes referred to as the Z line. For the purposes of these specifications including the claims stomach means the tissue aboral of the gastroesophageal junction .

The first member is generally cylindrical or can have any other shape. It has a longitudinal axis and a through channel along the longitudinal axis . The through channel is formed by a through bore which is dimensioned to be slidingly received on a tissue piercing deployment wire to be described.

The first member also includes a first end and a second end . Similarly the second member includes a first end and a second end . The first end of member forms a pointed dilation tip . The dilation tip may be conical and more particularly takes the shape of a truncated cone. The tip can also be shaped to have a cutting edge in order to reduce tissue resistance.

The first and second members and and the connecting member may be formed of different materials and have different textures. These materials may include for example plastic materials such as polypropylene polyethylene polyglycolic acid polyurethane or a thermoplastic elastomer. The plastic materials may include a pigment contrasting with body tissue color to enable better visualization of the fastener during its deployment. Alternatively the fastener may be formed of a metal such as stainless steel or a shape memory metal such as Nitinol.

As may be further noted in the connecting member has a vertical dimension and a horizontal dimension which is transverse to the vertical dimension. The horizontal dimension is substantially less than the vertical dimension to render the connecting member readily bendable in a horizontal plane. The connecting member is further rendered bendable by the nature of the material from which the fastener is formed. The connecting member may be formed from either an elastic plastic or a permanently deformable plastic. An elastic material would prevent compression necrosis in some applications.

It may be noted in that the first member has a continuous lengthwise slit extending between the first and second ends and . The slit includes an optional slot portion that communications with the through channel . The slot has a transverse dimension for more readily enabling receipt of a tissue piercing deployment wire during deployment of the fastener . Also because the fastener number is formed of flexible material the slit may be made larger through separation to allow the deployment wire to be snapped into and released from the through channel as will be seen subsequently. This permits early release of the first member during deployment and decreases compression on the tissue layers. The slit extends substantially parallel to the through channel and the center axis of the first member . It may also be noted that the slit has a width dimension that is smaller or less than the diameter D of the through channel . This assures that the fastener will remain on a tissue piercing deployment wire as it is pushed towards and into the tissue as will be seen subsequently.

Referring now to it is a perspective view with portions cut away of a fastener assembly embodying the present invention for deploying the fastener . The tissue layer portions above the fastener have been shown cut away in to enable the deployment procedure to be seen more clearly. The assembly generally includes the fastener a deployment wire a pusher and a guide tube .

The first member of the fastener is slidingly received on the deployment wire . The deployment wire has a pointed tip for piercing the tissue layers and to be fastened together. The tip is enlarged with respect to the diameter of the deployment wire and preferably has a cross sectional dimension greater than that of the through channel and preferably the first member . This permits the tip to cut sufficient tissue to enable the fastener member to readily pass through the tissue layers and . It may also serve as a guide to guide the wire off of the member at the end of the deployment. The tissue piercing wire fastener and the pusher are all within the guide tube . The guide tube may take the form of a catheter for example as previously mentioned or a guide channel within a block of material.

As will be further noted in the second member is disposed along side the first member . This is rendered possible by the flexibility of the connecting member .

With the first member of the fastener slidingly received on the tissue piercing wire and with the pusher just touching the first member on the tissue piercing wire the tip of the tissue piercing wire pierces the tissue layers and . The subassembly of the tissue piercing wire fastener and pusher may be guided to its intended location relative to the tissue layers and by the guide tube .

As shown in the tissue piercing wire has pierced the tissue layers and and the pusher has pushed the first member of the fastener through the tissue layers and on the tissue piercing wire . This may be accomplished by moving the wire and the pusher together.

As may be seen in wire has been pushed further forward and independently from the first member . The first member has also been pushed forward by the pusher to cause the second member to engage the tissue layer . Continued pushing of the first member causes the first member to pivot in a counter clockwise direction because the second member is held by the tissue layer . The counter clockwise movement of the first member causes the wire to spread the slit open to pass down the slit to enter slot portion and to eventually pass through the slit at end . The fastener is then released from the wire .

In it will now be seen that the second end of the first member has cleared the wire and tissue layer . The tissue piercing wire may now be retracted into the pusher and the tissue piercing wire and pusher may be withdrawn.

The release of the fastener from the wire with minimal damage to the tissue layers and is made possible because the first member has a configuration alterable by the wire . The slit in member assists in the configuration change and release.

Referring now to it shows a deployment wire pusher arrangement which may be employed in the assembly of . The arrangement includes the deployment piercing wire and the pusher . The wire includes the tissue piercing tip . The pusher is tubular and has a distal end a lumen and an opening through the pusher sidewall and communicating with the lumen . The lumen is configured to permit the pusher to slidingly be carried on the wire . To that end the wire extends within the lumen from the distal end and through the opening . A fastener of the type previously described has been snapped onto the deployment wire between the deployment wire tip and the distal end of the pusher . An optional stiffener may also be provided for the pusher .

After a fastener is deployed the pusher may be retracted from the patient while the pusher is still on the deployment wire a further fastener may then be snapped onto the wire through the slit . The pusher may then be advanced down the deployment wire to deploy the fastener as previously described.

As seen in the pusher and wire are moved forward together to cause the wire and member to extend through the tissue layers and . From this point as may be seen in the pusher pushes the member forward. The second member first engages tissue layer and once so engaged the first member is caused to rotate counter clockwise in . The elasticity of the member causes the wire tip to stretch the sidewall of the first member . As the member is continued to be pushed and with optional retraction of the deployment wire it continues to rotate. Eventually the end of the member pops free of the wire tip. This may be seen in . The end of the member is now free of the wire .

The pusher and deployment wire may now be extracted. As shown in the tissue layers and are now fixed together between the first and second members and with the connecting member extending therebetween.

As seen in the pusher and wire are moved forward together to cause the wire and member to extend through the tissue layers and . From this point the pusher pushes the member to cause the tip to begin tearing the member along the score line . As may be seen in the pusher pushes the member forward. The second member first engages tissue layer and once so engaged the first member is caused to rotate counter clockwise in . The turning of the member causes the wire tip to tear through the sidewall of the first member . As the member is continued to be pushed it continues to be turned lengthwise. Eventually the end of the member releases from the wire tip. This may be seen in . The end of the member is now free of the wire .

The pusher and deployment wire may now be extracted. As shown in the tissue layers and are now fixed together between the first and second members and with the connecting member extending therebetween.

While the invention has been described by means of specific embodiments and applications thereof it is understood that numerous modifications and variations may be made thereto by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein.

