---

title: System and method for assisted real-time control of vehicle headlight
abstract: In one embodiment, a Headlight Controlling Device for automatically controlling vehicle headlights is disclosed. The Headlight Controlling Device comprises a processor and a memory communicatively coupled to the processor. The memory stores processor instructions, which, on execution, causes the processor to collect at least one of vehicle information, vehicle speed, road information, area information, weather information or a multimedia object associated with a forward path of the vehicle. The processor further determines a current light intensity distribution of the vehicle headlight based on the multimedia object. The processor further compares the current light intensity distribution of the vehicle headlight with an optimal light intensity distribution, wherein the optimal light intensity distribution is retrieved from a database based on at least one of the vehicle information, the vehicle speed, the road information, the area information or the weather information. The processor further controls the vehicle headlight based on the comparison.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09649974&OS=09649974&RS=09649974
owner: WIPRO LIMITED
number: 09649974
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20160309
---
This U.S. patent application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to Indian Application No. 201641005527 filed Feb. 17 2016. The aforementioned applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This disclosure relates generally to controlling headlights of a vehicle and more particularly to a system and method for automatically controlling vehicle headlights using image processing techniques.

Vehicle headlights are typically used to improve visibility when the visibility conditions are low due to fog rain smoke darkness and the like. Nowadays vehicles provide a large variety of headlights. Some of these headlights may include fog lights driving lights off road lights bumper lights multiple bulb headlights high beam lights low beam lights etc. Low beam lights generally provide less field of illumination when compared to high beam lights and hence are ideal for use on urban roads with street lights or in heavy traffic conditions. On the other hand high beam lights may typically be used in rural roads or poorly lit roads or on highways or freeways when there is no oncoming traffic.

Currently vehicle drivers are expected to manually switch between high and low beams and various other configurations of the lights based on instinct and defined guidelines. For example a driver may have to manually turn on the fog lamps in case the driver experiences fog conditions. In another example a driver may have to switch the lights from a high beam to a low beam when another vehicle approaches from the opposite side. Failure to do so may cause the driver of the oncoming vehicle to be momentarily blinded which may lead to accidents. The high beam may affect the driver driving ahead as well because the lights may get reflected through the rear view mirror and the side mirrors of the car ahead.

However sometimes drivers might not be aware of which type of light to be used under a particular circumstance. Also sometimes drivers might not be able to make a quick judgement in controlling the vehicle headlights. The failure to switch to the appropriate headlights or mode of headlights may lead to unsafe conditions for the driver of the vehicle as well as other vehicles on the road.

In an embodiment the present disclosure illustrates a method for automatically controlling a vehicle headlight. The method comprises collecting by a Headlight Controlling Device at least one of vehicle information vehicle speed road information area information weather information or a multimedia object associated with a forward path of a vehicle. The method further comprises determining by the Headlight Controlling Device a current light intensity distribution of the vehicle headlight based on the multimedia object. The method further comprises comparing by the Headlight Controlling Device the current light intensity distribution of the vehicle headlight with an optimal light intensity distribution wherein the optimal light intensity distribution is retrieved from a database based on at least one of the vehicle information the vehicle speed the road information the area information or the weather information. The method further comprises controlling by the Headlight Controlling Device the vehicle headlight based on the comparison.

In another embodiment the present disclosure illustrates a Headlight Controlling Device. The Headlight Controlling Device comprises a processor and a memory communicatively coupled to the processor. The memory stores processor instructions which on execution causes the processor to collect at least one of vehicle information vehicle speed road information area information weather information or a multimedia object associated with a forward path of the vehicle. The processor further determines a current light intensity distribution of the vehicle headlight based on the multimedia object. The processor further compares the current light intensity distribution of the vehicle headlight with an optimal light intensity distribution wherein the optimal light intensity distribution is retrieved from a database based on at least one of the vehicle information the vehicle speed the road information the area information or the weather information. The processor further controls the vehicle headlight based on the comparison.

In another embodiment a non transitory computer readable storage medium for assisted real time control of a vehicle headlight is disclosed which when executed by a computing device cause the computing device to perform operations comprising collecting at least one of vehicle information vehicle speed road information area information weather information or a multimedia object associated with a forward path of the vehicle. The operations further comprise determining a current light intensity distribution of the vehicle headlight based on the multimedia object. The operations further comprise comparing the current light intensity distribution of the vehicle headlight with an optimal light intensity distribution wherein the optimal light intensity distribution is retrieved from a database based on at least one of the vehicle information the vehicle speed the road information the area information or the weather information. The operations further comprise controlling the vehicle headlight based on the comparison.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

Exemplary embodiments are described with reference to the accompanying drawings. Wherever convenient the same reference numbers are used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. While examples and features of disclosed principles are described herein modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosed embodiments. It is intended that the following detailed description be considered as exemplary only with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

The present subject matter discloses a system and method for assisted real time control of a vehicle headlight. The system and method may be implemented in a variety of computing systems. The computing systems that can implement the described method s include but are not limited to a server a desktop personal computer a notebook or a portable computer hand held devices and a mainframe computer. Although the description herein is with reference to certain computing systems the system and method may be implemented in other computing systems albeit with a few variations as will be understood by a person skilled in the art.

Working of the systems and methods for assisted real time control of the vehicle headlight is described in conjunction with . It should be noted that the description and drawings merely illustrate the principles of the present subject matter. It will thus be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise various arrangements that although not explicitly described or shown herein embody the principles of the present subject matter and are included within its spirit and scope. Furthermore all examples recited herein are principally intended expressly to be only for pedagogical purposes to aid the reader in understanding the principles of the present subject matter and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions. Moreover all statements herein reciting principles aspects and embodiments of the present subject matter as well as specific examples thereof are intended to encompass equivalents thereof. While aspects of the systems and methods can be implemented in any number of different computing systems environments and or configurations the embodiments are described in the context of the following exemplary system architecture s .

The database may comprise vehicle information vehicle speed road information area information weather information recommended light mode and optimal light intensity distribution . The vehicle information may comprise at least one of vehicle type vehicle size or vehicle position. The road information may comprise at least one of road type route number driving side or road conditions.

The Headlight Controlling Device may be communicatively coupled to the database through a network. The network may be a wireless network wired network or a combination thereof. The network can be implemented as one of the different types of networks such as intranet local area network LAN wide area network WAN the internet and such. The network may either be a dedicated network or a shared network which represents an association of the different types of networks that use a variety of protocols for example Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP Wireless Application Protocol WAP etc. to communicate with each other. Further the network may include a variety of network devices Including routers bridges servers computing devices storage devices etc.

As shown in the Headlight Controlling Device comprises a processor a memory coupled to the processor and interface s . The processor may be implemented as one or more microprocessors microcomputers microcontrollers digital signal processors central processing units state machines logic circuitries and or any devices that manipulate signals based on operational instructions. Among other capabilities the processor is configured to fetch and execute computer readable instructions stored in the memory . The memory can include any non transitory computer readable medium known in the art including for example volatile memory e.g. RAM and or non volatile memory e.g. EPROM flash memory etc. .

The interface s may include a variety of software and hardware interfaces for example a web interface a graphical user interface etc. allowing the Headlight Controlling Device to interact with user devices. Further the interface s may enable the Headlight Controlling Device respectively to communicate with other computing devices. The interface s can facilitate multiple communications within a wide variety of networks and protocol types Including wired networks for example LAN cable etc. and wireless networks such as WLAN cellular or satellite. The interface s may include one or more ports for connecting a number of devices to each other or to another server.

In order to assist in real time control of the vehicle headlight a Light intensity analyzer may receive at least one of the vehicle information the vehicle speed the road information the area information the weather information or a multimedia object associated with a forward path of a vehicle wherein the multimedia object may comprise at least one of a video or an Image.

After receiving the vehicle information the vehicle speed the road information the area information the weather information and the multimedia object the Light intensity analyzer may determine a current light intensity distribution of the vehicle headlight based on the multimedia object . This is shown in . In one embodiment the current light intensity distribution may be determined based on an intensity Histogram of a Red Green Blue RGB image which may be derived from the multimedia object . An alternative embodiment may be to derive an RGB image from the multimedia object and to convert it into a Grayscale image. Then the current light intensity distribution may be determined based on the Intensity Histogram of the Grayscale image.

After determining the current light intensity distribution the Light Intensity Analyzer compares the current light intensity distribution with an optimal light intensity distribution wherein the optimal light intensity distribution is retrieved by looking up the database using current vehicle parameters. The current vehicle parameters may include the vehicle information the vehicle speed the road information the area information and the weather information .

After comparing the current light intensity distribution with the optimal light intensity distribution the vehicle headlight may be controlled based on the comparison. In one implementation the vehicle headlight may be switched between low beam and high beam or between higher light intensity and lower light intensity. The vehicle headlight may be switched between various other configurations of the vehicle headlight to bring the vehicle to the optimal light intensity distribution .

In some embodiments one or more of the vehicle information the vehicle speed the road information the area information and the weather information may be collected in real time. For example the driver may be uniquely associated with the registration number of the vehicle and the vehicle registration number may be looked up in a database to determine the type of the vehicle. The vehicle speed the road information the area information and the weather information may be collected in real time due to the dynamic nature of the information. In some other embodiments the vehicle information may be predefined. For example the vehicle information may be provided by the driver during a registration process. The driver may also provide a driving side i.e. whether the vehicle is being driven in a left driving country or a right driving country.

Here the vehicle information may comprise vehicle type vehicle size and vehicle position. The Vehicle type may indicate for example if the vehicle is a Sports Utility Vehicle SUV a sedan a truck a van etc. and the vehicle size may indicate if the vehicle is a minicompact a subcompact a compact a midsize a large vehicle etc. The vehicle position the vehicle speed and the area information may be collected through a Global Positioning System GPS associated with the vehicle. In some embodiments the vehicle position may be obtained by a satellite ranging method which involves measuring the distance between a GPS receiver and GPS satellites. In some embodiments the vehicle speed may be calculated using the Doppler Effect. GPS may implement receivers to continuously track carder frequencies generated by satellites. The Doppler shift which is the difference between the known satellite carrier frequency and the frequency determined at the receiver is directly proportional to the velocity of the receiver. This may be used to calculate the speed of the vehicle. Further in some embodiments the area information may be determined using Geographic information Systems GIS . The GPS data is compared with geographic map data and road data in order to determine the area information. Examples for the area information may be urban suburban rural etc. Examples for the weather information may be windy sunny cloudy etc. Further in some embodiments the weather information might be obtained by using weather sensors .

In addition to the vehicle information the vehicle speed the area information and the weather information the road information may also be collected at step . Here the road information may include road type route number driving side or road conditions. The road type the route number and the road conditions may be determined using GIS. The road type may indicate for example whether the road is a highway a rural road an interstate road a motorway an arterial road a mountain road a pedestrian zone a trunk road an expressway etc. The driving side may be left or right depending on whether the vehicle is being driven in a left driving country or a right driving country. The road conditions parameter may include information on whether the road is accident prone is of degraded quality under construction under illuminated etc.

In addition to the vehicle information the vehicle speed the road information the area information and the weather information the multimedia object may also be collected at step . The multimedia objects are captured using the image capturing devices. The multimedia object may be an image or a video of the area in front of the vehicle. This may typically include the view of the driver as the vehicle moves in a forward path.

Once the multimedia object is captured a current light intensity distribution of the vehicle headlight may be determined based on the multimedia object at step . The current light intensity distribution may represent the distribution of light as seen by the driver of the vehicle. The light intensity distribution as determined from the image or video of the forward path of the vehicle may represent light distribution from various sources as the vehicle moves in a forward path. For example the light sources may include the headlight of the vehicle light from street lights headlights from oncoming vehicles tail lights from other vehicles travelling in the same direction as the vehicle lights from billboards etc. Image capturing techniques may be used on the image or the video captured by the image capturing device to determine the light intensity distribution. In some embodiments the light intensity distribution may be determined from a histogram of the image.

In some embodiments the current light intensity distribution may be determined by first deriving the RGB image from the multimedia object and then converting the derived RGB image into a Grayscale image and finally determining the Intensity Histogram of the Grayscale image. In an alternative embodiment the current light intensity distribution may be determined by determining the Intensity Histogram of the RGB image. Noise may be eliminated from the RGB image by using Filtering Techniques like an averaging filter or a median filter etc. Skew error may be eliminated by providing skew correction like top line scan line etc.

On determining the current light intensity distribution the current light intensity distribution may be compared with an optimal light intensity distribution at step . The optimal light intensity distribution may represent the ideal or optimal light distribution for a particular set of parameter values. In other words the optimal light intensity distribution may suggest the optimal headlight configuration by taking into consideration parameters such as the vehicle information the vehicle speed the road information the area information and the weather information herein after referred to as current vehicle parameters. To determine the optimal light intensity distribution for a set of current vehicle parameters or for a given set of conditions a database may be looked up using the set of current vehicle parameters or the set of conditions. The database may include a predefined mapping between the current vehicle parameters or conditions and the optimal light intensity distribution for those current vehicle parameters. Further the database may include a recommended headlight mode to achieve the optimal light distribution.

At step the vehicle headlight may be controlled based on the comparison between the current light intensity distribution and the optimal light intensity distribution . The vehicle headlight may be controlled either by altering the headlight mode or by altering the light intensities. The current light intensity distribution may be altered to match the optimal light intensity distribution . If the current light intensity distribution is lesser than the optimal light intensity distribution then the vehicle headlight may be switched from low beam to high beam or from lower light intensity to higher light intensity. If the current light intensity distribution is greater than the optimal light intensity distribution then the vehicle headlight may be switched from high beam to low beam or from higher light intensity to lower light intensity. Optimal light intensity distributions corresponding to various permutations and combinations of possible values of the parameters may be stored in the database . These optimal light intensity distributions may be looked up using the current vehicle parameter values. For example if the weather information as collected in step indicates foggy conditions and the optimal light intensity distribution indicates that a wider spread of light is required when compared to the current light intensity distribution of the headlights then the recommended mode may suggest to the driver of the vehicle to turn on the fog lamps of the vehicle. In some other embodiments headlight controlling device may automatically change the configuration of the headlights to achieve the recommended mode in this case automatically switching the fog lights on. Consider another illustration where the vehicle is being driven on a road that is accident prone. The road information may be collected in step and the optimal light intensity distribution may indicate that a higher intensity of light is required when compared with the current light intensity distribution of the headlights. Then the headlight mode may suggest to switch or automatically switch from low beam mode to high beam mode or from lower light intensity to higher light intensity and not to switch if it is already in the high beam mode. Consider another illustration where the vehicle is being driven in a rural area. The area information may be collected in step and the optimal light intensity distribution may indicate that a higher intensity of light is required when compared with the current light intensity distribution of the headlights. This may be due to the fact that there are less traffic in the rural areas and hence a lesser chance of blinding an oncoming vehicle driver with high beam. Hence the headlight mode may suggest to switch from low beam mode to high beam mode or from lower light intensity to higher light intensity and not to switch if the vehicle is already in the high beam mode Headlight controlling device alters the mode of the headlight to match the recommended light mode i.e. it switches from low beam to high beam if the current mode is in low beam or makes no change if the current mode is in high beam.

Processor may be disposed in communication with one or more input output I O devices via I O interface . The I O interface may employ communication protocols methods such as without limitation audio analog digital monoaural RCA stereo IEEE 1394 serial bus universal serial bus USB infrared PS 2 BNC coaxial component composite digital visual interface DVI high definition multimedia Interface HDMI RF antennas S Video VGA IEEE 802.n b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax or the like etc.

Using the I O interface the computer system may communicate with one or more I O devices. For example the input device may be an antenna keyboard mouse joystick infrared remote control camera card reader fax machine dongle biometric reader microphone touch screen touchpad trackball sensor e.g. accelerometer light sensor GPS gyroscope proximity sensor or the like stylus scanner storage device transceiver video device source visors etc. Output device may be a printer fax machine video display e.g. cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED plasma or the like audio speaker etc. In some embodiments a transceiver may be disposed in connection with the processor . The transceiver may facilitate various types of wireless transmission or reception. For example the transceiver may include an antenna operatively connected to a transceiver chip e.g. Texas Instruments WiLink WL1283 Broadcom BCM4750IUB8 Infineon Technologies X Gold 618 PMB9800 or the like providing IEEE 802.11a b g n Bluetooth FM global positioning system GPS 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications etc.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with a communication network via a network interface . The network interface may communicate with the communication network . The network interface may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethemet e.g. twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP token ring IEEE 802.11a b g n x etc. The communication network may include without limitation a direct interconnection local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless network e.g. using Wireless Application Protocol the Internet etc. Using the network interface and the communication network the computer system may communicate with devices and . These devices may include without limitation personal computer s server s fax machines printers scanners various mobile devices such as cellular telephones smartphones e.g. Apple iPhone Blackberry Android based phones etc. tablet computers eBook readers Amazon Kindle Nook etc. laptop computers notebooks gaming consoles Microsoft Xbox Nintendo DS Sony PlayStation etc. or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may itself embody one or more of these devices.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with one or more memory devices e.g. RAM ROM etc. via a storage interface . The storage interface may connect to memory devices including without limitation memory drives removable disc drives etc. employing connection protocols such as serial advanced technology attachment SATA integrated drive electronics IDE IEEE 1394 universal serial bus USB fiber channel small computer systems interface SCSI etc. The memory drives may further include a drum magnetic disc drive magneto optical drive optical drive redundant array of Independent discs RAID solid state memory devices solid state drives etc.

The memory devices may store a collection of program or database components including without limitation an operating system user interface application web browser mail server mail client user application data e.g. any data variables or data records discussed in this disclosure etc. The operating system may facilitate resource management and operation of the computer system . Examples of operating systems include without limitation Apple Macintosh OS X Unix Unix like system distributions e.g. Berkeley Software Distribution BSD FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD etc. Linux distributions e.g. Red Hat Ubuntu Kubuntu etc. IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows XP Vista 7 8 etc. Apple iOS Google Android Blackberry OS or the like. User interface may facilitate display execution interaction manipulation or operation of program components through textual or graphical facilities. For example user interfaces may provide computer interaction interface elements on a display system operatively connected to the computer system such as cursors icons check boxes menus scrollers windows widgets etc. Graphical user interfaces GUIs may be employed including without limitation Apple Macintosh operating systems Aqua IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows e.g. Aero Metro etc. Unix X Windows web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX Java Javascript AJAX HTML Adobe Flash etc. or the like.

In some embodiments the computer system may implement a web browser stored program component. The web browser may be a hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari etc. Secure web browsing may be provided using HTTPS secure hypertext transport protocol secure sockets layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS etc. Web browsers may utilize facilities such as AJAX DHTML Adobe Flash JavaScript Java application programming interfaces APIs etc. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail server stored program component. The mail server may be an Internet mail server such as Microsoft Exchange or the like. The mail server may utilize facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI C C Microsoft .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP Python WebObjects etc. The mail server may utilize communication protocols such as internet message access protocol IMAP messaging application programming interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail client stored program component. The mail client may be a mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Mozilla Thunderbird etc.

In some embodiments computer system may store user application data such as the data variables records etc. as described in this disclosure. Such databases may be implemented as fault tolerant relational scalable secure databases such as Oracle or Sybase. Alternatively such databases may be implemented using standardized data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table or as object oriented databases e.g. using ObjectStore Poet Zope etc. . Such databases may be consolidated or distributed sometimes among the various computer systems discussed above in this disclosure. It is to be understood that the structure and operation of the any computer or database component may be combined consolidated or distributed in any working combination.

The specification has described application title. The Illustrated steps are set out to explain the exemplary embodiments shown and it should be anticipated that ongoing technological development will change the manner in which particular functions are performed. These examples are presented herein for purposes of illustration and not limitation. Further the boundaries of the functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternative boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed. Alternatives including equivalents extensions variations deviations etc. of those described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein. Such alternatives fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments.

Furthermore one or more computer readable storage media may be utilized in implementing embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. A computer readable storage medium refers to any type of physical memory on which information or data readable by a processor may be stored. Thus a computer readable storage medium may store instructions for execution by one or more processors including instructions for causing the processor s to perform steps or stages consistent with the embodiments described herein. The term computer readable medium should be understood to include tangible items and exclude carrier waves and transient signals i.e. be non transitory. Examples include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM volatile memory nonvolatile memory hard drives CD ROMs DVDs flash drives disks and any other known physical storage media.

It is intended that the disclosure and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of disclosed embodiments being indicated by the following claims.

