---

title: Spin current generation with nano-oscillator
abstract: A device including a spin channel to transport a spin current, a nano-oscillator, and a magnetoresistive device that receives the spin current from the nano-oscillator. The nano-oscillator includes a magnetization state that oscillates between a first state and a second state in response to an input voltage or current. The oscillation of the nano-oscillator may induce the spin current within the spin channel. The magnetoresistive device includes a magnetization state that is set based at least in part on the received spin current.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09660582&OS=09660582&RS=09660582
owner: Regents of the University of Minnesota
number: 09660582
owner_city: Minneapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160819
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 540 701 filed Nov. 13 2014 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government funds under Agreement No. HR0011 13 3 0002 awarded by DARPA. The U.S. Government has rights in this invention.

In spin based systems a spin polarized current is used to set magnetization states of magnetoresistive devices. For example through the spin transfer torque STT effect spin of electrons in a spin polarized current can apply torque to a magnetic moment of a free layer in a magnetoresistive device e.g. a magnetic tunneling junction MTJ a giant magnetoresistive GMR device . Electrons are spin polarized by the fixed layer of the magnetoresistive device. Depending on the electron flow direction and relative orientation of spin of electrons and the magnetization of the free layer magnetization of the free layer can be set to be parallel or anti parallel to the magnetization of the fixed layer.

One way to generate the spin polarized current for setting magnetization states of magnetoresistive devices is through spin pumping. In spin pumping a device injects a spin polarized current into a spin channel and the spin polarized current drifts through the spin channel to one or more magnetoresistive devices and sets the magnetization states of the one or more magnetoresistive devices.

The disclosure describes example techniques for spin pumping to generate a spin polarized current with a spin transfer torque STT nano oscillator to set magnetization states of one or more magnetoresistive devices. The nano oscillator is a type of a magnetoresistive device with a magnetic layer whose magnetization state oscillates around a specific axis determined by the effective magnetic field in response to a current flowing through the nano oscillator. The oscillation of the magnetic layer of the nano oscillator induces a spin polarized current in a spin channel through spin pumping. A drift force causes the spin polarized current to flow through the spin channel to one or more magnetoresistive devices coupled to the spin channel and the spin polarized current sets the magnetization state of the magnetoresistive devices.

In some examples the spin pumping injects the spin polarized current directly into the spin channel which reduces or eliminates the loss of spin current caused by the impedance mismatch between the magnet and the spin channel as compared other spin injection methods like lateral spin valve devices. Moreover the nano oscillator as described in this disclosure may be scalable and tunable allowing for wider application as compared some other techniques that rely on a coplanar waveguide with limited scalability for spin pumping.

In one example the disclosure describes a device including a spin channel to transport a spin current and a nano oscillator having a magnetization state that in response to an input voltage or current oscillates between a first state and a second state and induces the spin current within the spin channel. The device also includes a magnetoresistive device that receives the spin current from the nano oscillator the magnetoresistive device having a magnetization state that is set by the received spin current.

In one example the disclosure describes a method for generating a spin current and setting a magnetization state of a magnetoresistive device. The method includes applying an input voltage or current to a nano oscillator to oscillate a magnetization state of the nano oscillator between a first state and a second state and induce a spin current in a spin channel coupled to the nano oscillator. The method further includes setting in response to the spin current a magnetization state of a magnetoresistive device coupled to the spin channel.

In one example the disclosure describes a logic device including a spin channel to transport a spin current and a nano oscillator having a magnetization state that in response to an input voltage or current oscillates between a first state and a second state and induces the spin current within the spin channel. The logic device also includes a magnetoresistive device that receives the spin current from the nano oscillator the magnetoresistive device having a magnetization state that is set based at least in part on the received spin current and a controller configured to measure the resistivity of the magnetoresistive device and output a voltage or current.

In some examples the disclosure describes a method for generating and amplifying a spin current. The method includes applying an input voltage or current to a nano oscillator to oscillate a magnetization state of the nano oscillator between a first state and a second state and induce a spin current in a spin channel coupled to the nano oscillator applying a gate voltage or current to the spin channel to amplify an input current received by the spin channel with the spin current and outputting the amplified current.

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

In spintronic systems an input device sets the magnetization state of one or more output magnetoresistive devices. In some examples the magnetization state represents a digital bit value e.g. a parallel state or low resistance state represents a digital zero and an anti parallel state of a high resistance state represents a digital one or vice versa . The digital value represented by the magnetization state of the magnetoresistive devices may be considered as an output and in this sense the magnetoresistive devices may be considered as output devices.

Spin pumping is one example way in which an input device sets the magnetization state of the one or more magnetoresistive devices. In spin pumping the input device is coupled to a spin channel and the one or more magnetoresistive devices are also coupled to the spin channel. The input device injects or outputs a spin polarized current into the spin channel and the one or more magnetoresistive devices receive the spin polarized current. The spin polarized current sets the magnetization state of the magnetoresistive devices based on the spin state of the electrons of the spin polarized current. For instance if the spin state of the electrons is a first e.g. up spin state then the spin polarized current sets the magnetization state of the magnetoresistive devices to a first e.g. up state and if the spin state of the electrons is a second e.g. down spin state then the spin polarized current sets the magnetization state of the magnetoresistive devices to a second e.g. down state.

As described in more detail below in the techniques described this disclosure the input device that generates the spin polarized current may be a type of a magnetoresistive device referred to as a Spin Transfer Torque STT nano oscillator. The nano oscillator may include a single magnetic layer which may include a plurality of magnetic sub layers. The nano oscillator may include two magnetic layers that sandwich a non magnetic layer e.g. an insulator layer where the magnetic direction of one of the magnetic layers is fixed referred to as the fixed layer and the magnetic direction of the other magnetic layer can be set referred to as the free layer . One of the characteristics of the nano oscillator may be that in response to application of a voltage or current the magnetic direction of the free layer oscillates permanently. The oscillation axis can be set utilizing the magnetic anisotropy or local magnetic field. The frequency of the oscillation may be tuned based on the amplitude of the voltage or current applied to the nano oscillator.

The magnetic direction of the fixed layer of the nano oscillator may be fixed to a first e.g. up direction. When the direction of the free layer of the nano oscillator is set to the first e.g. up direction the magnetization state of the nano oscillator may be considered as being in a parallel state. When the direction of the free layer of the nano oscillator is set to the second e.g. down direction the magnetization state of the nano oscillator may be considered as being in an anti parallel state. Accordingly in response to application of a voltage or current the nano oscillator may oscillate somewhere between the parallel and anti parallel states.

When oscillating the nano oscillator generates a spin polarized current in the spin channel that flows through the spin channel to one or more magnetoresistive devices. The spin polarized current sets the magnetization states of the one or more magnetoresistive devices as described above. Similar to the nano oscillator these one or more magnetoresistive devices may include a fixed magnetic layer and a free magnetic layer that sandwich an insulator e.g. nonmagnetic layer. However the direction of the free layer of these magnetoresistive devices may not oscillate in response to application of a voltage or current.

Setting the magnetization state of one or magnetoresistive devices may be useful for various applications. As one example the magnetization states of the magnetoresistive device may indicate a digital value and the one or more magnetoresistive devices may be formed to function as logical gates e.g. NOT gates AND gates OR gates etc. . For purposes of illustration the description is described with respect to the one or more magnetoresistive devices forming logical gates but the spin pumping techniques utilizing a nano oscillator as described in this disclosure are not limited to logical gates.

Nano oscillator and magnetoresistive device are coupled to spin channel all of which are described in more detail below. In some examples the impedance or resistivity of input device may be very different than the impedance of spin channel . As a result there is an impedance mismatch at the boundary between input device and spin channel .

In the techniques described in this disclosure nano oscillator may be type of a magnetoresistive device with the characteristic that the magnetization state of nano oscillator oscillates between states in response to a current flowing through nano oscillator . The oscillation of the magnetization state of nano oscillator induces a spin current in spin channel and the spin current in spin channel sets a magnetization state of magnetoresistive device .

In the techniques described in this disclosure when nano oscillator is used to generate the spin current the spin pumping effect induces a spin current directly into spin channel . Because the spin current is induced due to the oscillation of the magnetization state of nano oscillator the spin current does not interact with the boundary between nano oscillator and spin channel . Accordingly even if there is an impedance mismatch at the boundary the creation of the spin current is not affected. Therefore there may be relative high efficiency in the amount of spin polarized current injected into spin channel .

For instance in other spin based logic devices that do not use nano oscillator and instead rely on a non oscillating input device the impedance mismatch between the non oscillating input device and spin channel makes it difficult to generate a sufficient amount of spin current in the spin channel. For instance if a non oscillating input device is used to generate the spin polarized current that sets the magnetization state for the one or more output magnetoresistive devices then an impedance mismatch between such a non oscillating input device and the spin channel inhibits the amount of spin polarized current that is injected into and that flows through the spin channel.

Furthermore a spin polarized current generated from a non oscillating input device flows through the spin channel to the output magnetoresistive devices due to diffusion. However there may not be practical ways to control the direction in which the spin polarized current diffuses meaning that there is a chance that an output magnetoresistive device does not receive the spin polarized current. Also the diffusion is comparatively slow and the amount of time it takes the spin polarized current to diffuse to the output magnetoresistive device may be too long for high speed spintronic systems.

The spin polarized current generated by nano oscillator flows to the magnetoresistive device due to both drift and diffusion forces rather than diffusion alone. The drift force may allow the spin polarized current to set the magnetization states of the magnetoresistive devices faster than the diffusion making the spin polarized current generated by nano oscillator to be better suited for high speed spintronic systems.

In addition to minimizing the negative effects of impedance mismatch and achieving the benefits of using drift force rather than diffusion generating the spin current using nano oscillator may also provide for scalability in generating the spin current. For instance the size of the nano oscillator can be scaled for system designs allowing for relatively small sized nano oscillator to efficiently induce spin current in the spin channel for setting magnetization state of output magnetoresistive device .

For example some other spin pumping techniques use a microwave based coplanar waveguide to excite magnetization dynamics in a magnetoresistive device i.e. a microwave flowing through the coplanar waveguide induces magnetization dynamics in the magnetoresistive element and injects a spin current in a spin channel . Microwave based coplanar waveguide spin pumping techniques e.g. waveguide based spin logic devices may address the negative effects of impedance mismatch and diffusion. However microwave based coplanar waveguide devices require a large area and increasing the amount of spin current requires increasing the length of the waveguide. Thus waveguide based spin logic devices require additional devices e.g. coplanar waveguide which requires significantly more total area. Waveguide based spin logic devices also require an external magnetic field to tune the frequency of the spin pumping current. Further waveguides do not excite magnetization dynamics efficiently i.e. do no set magnetization states efficiently thus waveguide based spin logic devices are not very energy efficient.

The disclosure describes a spin pumping device using nano oscillator where the spin current induced in spin channel is due to the oscillation of the magnetization state of nano oscillator . Nano oscillator may require less power and area than waveguide based spin pumping devices. Accordingly the described spin pumping spin logic device may be more energy efficient than waveguide based devices. The described device may also occupy less chip space than waveguide based spin logic devices thus allowing more logic devices on the same sized chip. Furthermore as described above the described device may not be impacted by the impedance mismatch and may utilize the drift force for setting magnetization state of output magnetoresistive device .

As illustrated nano oscillator and output magnetoresistive device may be coupled to spin channel . Spin channel carries a spin current from the at least one nano oscillator to the at least one output magnetoresistive device . In some examples spin channel may include Tantalum Ta Tungsten W or other materials with strong a spin orbit coupling. In other examples spin channel may include a topological insulator such as BiSe or BiTe.

In some examples nano oscillator is a type of a magnetoresistive device. Nano oscillator may include a single magnetic layer which may include a plurality of magnetic sub layers. In some examples nano oscillator may include a plurality of layers including fixed magnetic layer non magnetic layer and free magnetic layer . Fixed layer and free layer may each be considered a different side of nano oscillator . Nano oscillator may include a Spin Current Spin Valve SCSV . In some examples an SCSV may include magnetoresistive device with thinner layers than traditional magnetoresistive devices as described in .

Fixed layer may include a ferromagnetic material e.g. CoFeB . As described below and illustrated in in some examples fixed layer may include a plurality of sub layers. Free layer may include a ferromagnetic material e.g. CoFeB . As described and illustrated in in some examples free layer may include a plurality of sub layers which may be exchange coupled.

Non magnetic layer may be sandwiched between fixed layer and free layer . In some examples non magnetic layer may include insulating materials such as magnesium oxide MgO . Non magnetic layer may be thin enough approximately 1.0 nanometers that electrons may tunnel from fixed layer to free layer or vice versa. In some examples non magnetic layer may include a tunneling layer e.g. in an MTJ . In some examples non magnetic layer may include a spacer layer e.g. in a GMR .

Either side of nano oscillator may be coupled to another device or component. As illustrated in in some examples a first side e.g. fixed layer may be coupled to voltage source V and a second side e.g. free layer may be coupled to spin channel .

Fixed layer and free layer may include a magnetization direction. The magnetization direction of fixed layer may be fixed so that the magnetization direction of fixed layer does not change. The magnetization direction of free layer may be changeable as described below.

Nano oscillator may include an operation state such as a parallel P magnetization state or an anti parallel AP magnetization state. The operation state of nano oscillator may depend upon the magnetization direction of fixed layer and free layer .

The magnetization orientation of fixed layer and free layer may be in plane or perpendicular. In examples with in plane orientation the magnetization direction of fixed layer and the magnetization of free layer are in the plane of spin channel . In examples of perpendicular orientation also known as out of plane the magnetization direction of fixed layer and the magnetization of free layer are normal to the plane of spin channel .

In some examples output magnetoresistive device may include a plurality of layers including fixed layer non magnetic layer and free layer . In some examples output magnetoresistive device may be similar to nano oscillator . For instance fixed layer corresponds to fixed layer non magnetic layer corresponds to non magnetic layer and free layer corresponds to free layer . However the magnetization state of output magnetoresistive device may not oscillate in the manner that the magnetization state of nano oscillator oscillates.

In the techniques described in this disclosure the magnetization state of output magnetoresistive device represents a digital value e.g. 0 or 1 . For example the impedance also referred to as the resistance of output magnetoresistive device indicates whether the layers of output magnetoresistive device are aligned parallel P or anti parallel AP . In some examples if the impedance measurement indicates high impedance output magnetoresistive device may be aligned anti parallel and if the impedance measurement indicates low impedance output magnetoresistive device may be aligned parallel. The high impedance of output magnetoresistive device may correspond to a digital high and the low impedance of output magnetoresistive device may correspond to a digital low or vice versa. In other words when the magnetization state of output magnetoresistive device is parallel i.e. the magnetization directions of fixed layer and free layer is the same the impedance of output magnetoresistive device may be low. When the magnetization state of output magnetoresistive device is anti parallel i.e. the magnetization directions of fixed layer and free layer are opposite the impedance of output magnetoresistive device may be high. Low impedance of magnetoresistive device may correspond to a digital low and high impedance of magnetoresistive device may correspond to a digital high or vice versa.

In operation the magnetization state of nano oscillator and the direction of free layer may be set based upon an input voltage V and its corresponding current e.g. a direct DC current I . The input voltage causes a current to flow into nano oscillator . The current may excite magnetization dynamics in nano oscillator such that the magnetization direction of free layer precesses or oscillates . The oscillation of free layer causes nano oscillator to oscillate. Since the resistance of nano oscillator is a function of its magnetization state the resistance of nano oscillator oscillates as the magnetization direction of free layer oscillates.

In some examples spin pumping may occur after only a few precessions of the magnetization dynamics. After sufficient precessions of the magnetization dynamics spin pumping may cause a spin current to be injected directly into spin channel . The Inverse Spin Hall Effect ISHE may separate based on the spin orbit the spin up polarized electrons from the spin down polarized electrons causing the spin up electrons and spin down electrons to scatter in different directions. The drift force may then drive the spin current toward output magnetoresistive device . In some examples the direction of the spin current in spin channel may depend on the direction of the DC current and reversing the direction of the DC current may reverse the direction of the spin current.

In some examples nano oscillator includes an SCSV where free layer is thinner than the free layer in traditional magnetoresistive resistive devices. As the thickness of free layer decreases the magnitude also called the absolute value of the output voltage at output magnetoresistive device exhibits an asymmetric or nonreciprocal behavior for spin currents with a magnetic field having opposite signs but identical absolute value. In other words two spin currents having identical frequencies but traveling in opposite directions i.e. traveling through oppositely polarized magnetic fields e.g. 400 Oe and 400 Oe will produce output voltages that are different in sign and magnitude. In some examples when the spin current frequency is approximately 2 GHz and the spin current travels through a 400 Oe magnetic field the output voltage may be approximately 30 V but when the spin current frequency is approximately 2 GHz and the spin current travels through a 400 Oe magnetic field the output voltage may be approximately 10 V. This asymmetric behavior increases with decreasing film thickness.

In the illustrated example of the spin current with a first spin state e.g. spin up polarization flows to the right of nano oscillator while the spin current with a second spin state e.g. spin down polarization flows to the left of nano oscillator in some examples the spin current may flow left when polarized as spin up and flow right when polarized as spin down. In the illustrated example the vertical arrows are the same length throughout spin channel illustrating the fact that the spin current does not diffuse.

As the spin current flows towards through spin channel it may be absorbed by output magnetoresistive device . In some examples when the spin current is absorbed by output magnetoresistive device the magnetization direction of free layer changes. As a result the magnetization state of output magnetoresistive device may change from P to AP or vice versa . In some examples if the spin state of the spin current is a first spin state e.g. spin down or spin up then the spin polarized current sets the magnetization state of output magnetoresistive device to a first state e.g. parallel or anti parallel and if the spin state of the electrons is a second spin state then the spin polarized current sets the magnetization state of output magnetoresistive device to a second state.

The magnetization state of output magnetoresistive device may be determined by reading the impedance of output magnetoresistive device . In some examples reading the impedance of output magnetoresistive device may include applying a known voltage and current to output magnetoresistive device and measuring the resistance of output magnetoresistive device . For example if the impedance measurement indicates high impedance output magnetoresistive device may be aligned anti parallel and if the impedance measurement indicates low impedance output magnetoresistive device may be aligned parallel or vice versa. The high impedance of output magnetoresistive device may correspond to a digital high and the low impedance of output magnetoresistive device may correspond to a digital low or vice versa.

In some examples where nano oscillator includes a SCSV the output voltage from output magnetoresistive device may exhibit a nonreciprocal behavior. In these examples reducing the thickness of free layer may allow logic device to output voltages that are different in direction and magnitude by maintaining the magnitude of the DC current but simply changing the direction of the DC current.

In some examples the magnetization state of output magnetoresistive device may be set based on voltage controlled magnetic anisotropy VCMA strain induced magnetization switching and or exchange biasing magnetization switching. For example a gate voltage and hence an electric field may be applied to output magnetoresistive device . VCMA may originate from spin dependent screening of an electric field which leads to changes in the surface magnetization and the surface magnetocrystalline anisotropy. In some examples the use of VCMA may reduce the amount of spin current required to change the magnetization direction of free layer thus reducing the current and voltage necessary to cause precession in nano oscillator . Reducing the voltage and current applied to nano oscillator may improve the energy efficiency of logic device . In some examples the gate voltage may also be utilized as a clock signal to synchronize the logic circuit in multi state logic circuits.

In operation spin logic device may include three phases 1 a read phase 2 a write phase and 3 a standby phase. During the read phase spin logic device may determine the magnetization state of output magnetoresistive device . In some examples determining the magnetization state of output magnet may include applying a known voltage and current to output magnetoresistive device and calculating the resistance of the output magnetoresistive device .

In some examples the write phase may include several sub steps. First input voltage may be applied to nano oscillator . The current e.g. a direct DC current corresponding to the input voltage may flow into fixed layer of nano oscillator . The current may excite magnetization dynamics and magnetization precession in free layer . After sufficient precessions spin pumping may occur such that the spin pumping may inject a spin current in spin channel . Then the drift force may drive the spin current through the spin channel . Output magnetoresistive device may absorb e.g. receive the spin current which may cause the magnetization state of output magnetoresistive device to change. The write phase ends when input voltage is removed from nano oscillator such that the spin current can no longer flow through the spin channel.

Spin logic device resides in the standby phase when it is not in the read phase or the write phase. In the standby phase input voltage is removed and free layer of nano oscillator returns to its preset magnetization direction. Spin logic device then remains in the standby phase until executing either the read phase or write phase.

As illustrated in and described in more detail spin logic device comprises a NOT gate. However other examples may include different logical structures such as AND OR NAND NOR etc. As illustrated by the NOT gate in when input voltage is applied to the nano oscillator also denoted by V 1 the input voltage and corresponding input current excites the magnetization dynamics in nano oscillator . Thus spin pumping occurs when nano oscillator starts precessing and the magnetization dynamics injects a spin current into spin channel . The spin current drifts toward the output magnetoresistive device and output magnetoresistive device absorbs the spin current. As a result the magnetization state of output magnetoresistive device changes from anti parallel to parallel. Thus output magnetoresistive device has a low resistance and output voltage indicates a logical also denoted by V 0 .

When input voltage is removed from nano oscillator denoted as V 0 current does not flow to nano oscillator and the magnetization dynamics in nano oscillator are not excited. Spin pumping does not occur nano oscillator does not precess and no the spin current is not generated. As a result the magnetization state of output magnetoresistive device does not change i.e. it remains in the anti parallel state . Thus output magnetoresistive device has a high resistance and output voltage indicates a logical 1 denoted by V 1 .

The described spin pumping spin logic device may include several advantages over current state of the art devices. One possible advantage relates to the size of nano oscillator . Conventional magnetoresistive devices used in memory applications require a minimum thickness of the individual layers typically the minimum thickness is approximately nanometers . In contrast in some examples the layers of nano oscillator can be much thinner than traditional magnetoresistive devices because nano oscillator is not used as memory. Spin based logic device may also occupy less area than a waveguide based logic device. This may allow more logic devices to be placed on the same sized chip. Further spin pumping occurs more easily because nano oscillator only requires a few short pulses of current to excite magnetization dynamics and cause the magnetization direction to oscillate. As a result nano oscillator may require less energy than coplanar waveguide based logic devices such that logic device may be more energy efficient than waveguide based devices. In addition the use of spin pumping makes it so that the direction of the spin current can be controlled by directly injecting the spin current into spin channel . Thus spin pumping spin logic device may utilize the asymmetry of the spin current spin valve SCSV .

Magnetoresistive devices are often used in memory storage devices such as magnetoresistive random access memory MRANI . In storage devices fixed layer and free layer typically have a minimum thickness between three nanometers and ten nanometers. Thinner layers may improve the energy required to switch the magnetization direction of free layer however thinner layers may be detrimental to the nonvolatile storage capabilities of magnetoresistive device . Nano oscillators described above and described below are used for spin pumping. As a result spin pumping nano oscillators and can be made much thinner that traditional magnetoresistive device . For example rather than utilizing magnetoresistive device for generating the spin current the techniques described in this disclosure utilize spin pumping nano oscillators that are smaller in size and provide better spin pumping effect as described above.

Fixed layer may include a ferromagnetic material e.g. CoFeB having a magnetization direction. As illustrated in in some examples fixed layer may include a plurality of sub layers. In some examples the sub layers may form a Synthetic Antiferromagnetic Structure SAF .

As illustrated in fixed layer may include an anti ferromagnetic sub layer A pinning sub layer B polarizer sub layer C and reference ferromagnetic sub layer D. As shown in fixed layer includes four sub layers however fixed layer may include more or fewer sub layers. As illustrated in the approximate thickness of each layer is given in nanometers.

In some examples anti ferromagnetic sub layer A may include an antiferromagnetic layer or synthetic antiferromagnetic material such as Platinum Manganese PtMn Iridium Manganese IrNm or materials with similar properties. Anti ferromagnetic sub layer A may include a thickness of approximately 10 nanometers as illustrated in .

Pinning sub layer B may include a magnetic material such as Iron Cobalt CoFe Cobalt Co Cobalt Co Pallidium Pd multilayer or materials with similar properties. In some examples as illustrated in pinning sub layer B may include a thickness of approximately 2.3 nanometers.

Polarizer sub layer C may include Tantalum Ta Ruthenium Ru or materials with similar properties. As illustrated in in some examples the thickness of electrode sub layer C may include a thickness of approximately 0.8 nanometers.

Reference ferromagnetic sub layer D may include a ferromagnetic material such a Cobalt Iron Boron CoFeB or materials with similar properties. As illustrated in in some examples sub layer D may include a thickness of approximately 1.2 nanometers to approximately 2.2 nanometers.

As illustrated in free layer may include a plurality of sub layers. In some examples the plurality of sub layers may include a ferromagnetic layer A and a YIG layer B. The plurality of sub layers may include HS AOS switchable layer e.g. switchable based on helicity and another magnetic layer e.g. CoFeB CoFe etc. that directly contacts with non magnetic layer . In some examples the thickness of free layer may be approximately 0.8 nanometers to approximately 6.0 nanometers. In some examples the thickness of free layer may be approximately 0.8 nanometers to approximately 3.4 nanometers. Sub layer A may include a thickness of approximately 0.8 nanometers to approximately 1.4 nanometers and sub layer B may include a thickness of approximately 2.0 nanometers. The combined thickness of sub layers A and B may approximately 3.4 nanometers. In some examples the combined thickness of sub layers A and B may be approximately 6.0 nanometers. As illustrated in free layer includes two sub layers however free layer may include additional sub layers.

Nano oscillator may include a magnetization state that is determined by the magnetization directions of fixed layer and free layer as described in . In the techniques described in this disclosure the magnetization state of nano oscillator changes or oscillates between states in order to induce a spin current in spin channel .

The magnetization orientation of fixed layer and free layer may be in plane or perpendicular. As illustrated in in examples with in plane orientation the magnetization direction of fixed layer and the magnetization of free layer are in the plane of conductive channel . As illustrated in in examples of perpendicular orientation also known as out of plane the magnetization direction of fixed layer and the magnetization of free layer are normal to the plane of conductive channel .

In some examples as illustrated in fixed layer may also be coupled to another electrode . Applying a voltage or current to electrode may assist in changing the magnetization orientation of free layer from perpendicular to in plane which may assist in exciting magnetization dynamics in free layer and generating a spin current in spin channel .

In operation each of the at least one nano oscillators may be used as a separate spin pump to generate a spin current as described in . An input voltage or input current may be applied to one side of the at least one nano oscillator causing nano oscillator to excite magnetization dynamics in free layer . When the magnetization dynamics are excited free layer oscillates between magnetization states and a spin current may be generated in spin channel . The spin current may flow through spin channel and may be absorbed e.g. received by output magnetoresistive device as described in . As a result the magnetization state of output magnetoresistive device may switch from a first magnetization state to a second magnetization state. In the illustrated example whether the magnetization state of output magnetoresistive device changes may depend on the operation of nano oscillators A and B.

In some examples spin logic device may include a controller . Controller may apply a known voltage and current to output magnetoresistive device to determine the resistivity or impedance of output magnetoresistive device . The resistivity of output magnetoresistive device may correspond to a digital value. For example when the magnetization state of output magnetoresistive device is parallel i.e. the magnetization directions of fixed layer and free layer is the same the impedance of output magnetoresistive device may be low. When the magnetization state of output magnetoresistive device is anti parallel i.e. the magnetization directions of fixed layer and free layer are opposite the impedance of output magnetoresistive device may be high. In some examples when the magnetization state is parallel the impedance may be high and when the magnetization state is anti parallel the impedance may be low. Low impedance of magnetoresistive device may correspond to a digital low and high impedance of magnetoresistive device may correspond to a digital high or vice versa. Thus controller may output an output voltage V that represents a digital value based on the measured impedance of output magnetoresistive device .

As illustrated in in operation V may be a function of V and V which are given the same reference numeral to indicate that they may be similar as well as the initial magnetization configuration of the layers and . As illustrated Vand Voutput respective currents Iand I. Assuming that all the fixed layers and are toward right and free layer and point toward left and right respectively. In this case magnetoresistive devices A and B are in antiparallel state high resistive state and device output is in parallel state low resistive state . Application of either of input voltages injects spin current into the channel and may switch magnetoresistive device into high resistive state. The Boolean logic may be represented by the following equation for the configuration given in which is an OR gate.

In other words when the Vis a logical high V 1 the magnetization dynamics in nano oscillator A are excited and the magnetization state of nano oscillator A begins to oscillate. The oscillation produces a spin current in spin channel that flows from nano oscillator A to output magnetoresistive device . Likewise if Vis a logical high V 1 the magnetization dynamics in nano oscillator B are excited and the magnetization state of nano oscillator B begins to oscillate. The oscillation produces a spin current in spin channel that flows from nano oscillator B to output magnetoresistive device . Output magnetoresistive device absorbs the spin current from either of nano oscillators A and B. The current density from either of oscillator is large enough to switch the free layer of device . As a result the magnetization state of magnetoresistive device may change such that Vfor spin logic device is a logical high state V 1 .

By combining the NOT gate in and the gate shown here OR it is possible to implement any Boolean expression. For example the techniques described in this disclosure may be extendable for different types of logic gates such as AND gates NAND gates XOR gates etc.

One of the advantages of the magnetoresistive based logic is its reconfigurability. The initial magnetization state of the individual free layers of devices A and B as well as the output free layer can be independently defined before logic operation. This phase is usually called as logic programing and sometimes these devices are named as field programmable logic devices FPLD . For example by putting the output free layer of the magnetoresistive device into antiparallel state similar to free layer of the input devices A and B the output state is not affected by the inputs.

In some examples spin logic device includes at least one controller . Controller may apply a known voltage and current to each output magnetoresistive device and determine the resistivity or impedance of each output magnetoresistive device as described with reference to e.g. based on the outputs V and V . Based on the measured resistivity controller may output a digital value that corresponds to the resistivity of magnetoresistive device . The illustrated example includes separate controllers for each output magnetoresistive device however a single controller may determine the resistivity two or more output magnetoresistive devices and output digital values that correspond to the measured resistivity of each of the respective output magnetoresistive devices .

In operation nano oscillator may operate in a similar as described in . In some examples SCSV may include a voltage or exchange bias controlled gate between nano oscillator and an output magnetoresistive device. A gate voltage V may be applied to the spin channel causing free layer to transition from perpendicular orientation to in plane orientation. Input current Imay be applied to fixed layer causing precession of the magnetization direction of free layer . As free layer precesses spin current may be injected directly into spin channel . The drift and diffusion forces may cause the spin current to flow through spin channel which may change the magnetization state of an output magnetoresistive device not shown .

In some examples SCSV may act as a NOT or PASS gate with a gate control and device configuration is in such a way that may be easily used in cascaded devices such as a ring oscillator. For example as given in magnetoresistive device may perform oscillations only when Vis present. If V 0 the input current Iin spin channel may be absorbed by free layer B such that I 0. When V 1 free layer B may oscillate such that I I. In some examples a gate voltage Vmay be applied to magnetoresistive device which may bring the magnetization MFfrom out of plane into the plane direction. Thus free layer B may begin spin pumping and may inject a spin current into the channel such that Imay be greater than I. In this example configuration SCSV device may provide gain on the input current I where a voltage Vis applied to spin channel as illustrated.

In some examples an SCSV device may be used as a ring oscillator. One condition for a ring oscillator is having a gate with a gain above one. By applying a gate voltage Vmagnetoresistive device SCSV may amplify Isuch that Iis greater than I. In some examples if Vis not present SCSV does not amplify the signal. Instead SCSV acts as a nano oscillator of the above examples and I I.

In some examples spin logic device may include nano oscillator spin channel and output magnetoresistive device . Nano oscillator may receive an input voltage or current . For example an external source may apply an input voltage or current to nano oscillator . The input voltage or current may excite magnetization dynamics in nano oscillator causing the magnetization state of nano oscillator to oscillate e.g. AP to P or P to AP .

After sufficient oscillations nano oscillator may begin spin pumping . Spin pumping induces a spin current in spin channel . In other words a spin current is induced by nano oscillator . In some examples the voltage or current applied to nano oscillator may be removed once the spin current is induced in spin channel however the techniques described in this disclosure are not so limited. The spin current may flow through spin channel due to diffusion.

Output magnetoresistive device may absorb or receive the spin current from spin channel . As a result the magnetization state of output magnetoresistive device may change from AP to P or vice versa .

The magnetization state of output magnetoresistive device may be determined . The magnetization state may be determined by applying a known voltage and current to output magnetoresistive device and measuring the resistance of output magnetoresistive device .

As described above with reference to nano oscillator may receive an input voltage or current . The input voltage or current may excite magnetization dynamics in nano oscillator causing the magnetization state of nano oscillator to oscillate e.g. AP to P or P to AP . After sufficient oscillations nano oscillator may begin spin pumping .

A gate voltage V may be applied to spin channel causing free layer to transition from a perpendicular orientation to an in plane orientation. As described above in when the gate voltage is applied the current through the spin channel is amplified such that Iis greater than I . In some examples the Icurrent may be an input into a stage of a ring oscillator.

An output magnetoresistive device may absorb or receive the amplified spin current from spin channel . For example the output magnetoresistive device may be part of a ring oscillator. As a result the magnetization state of the output magnetoresistive device may change from AP to P or vice versa . The magnetization state of the output magnetoresistive device may be determined . The magnetization state may be determined by applying a known voltage and current to the output magnetoresistive device and measuring the resistance of the output magnetoresistive device.

In some examples such as those described with respect to an output magnetoresistive device may not be necessary in every example. For instance the Icurrent which is generated from the Icurrent and the induced spin current which causes Ito be greater than I may be an input current into additional circuitry and is not necessarily limited to being absorbed by an output magnetoresistive device. However in some examples the Icurrent may be absorbed by an output magnetoresistive device and because the Icurrent is greater than the Icurrent the magnetization state of the output magnetoresistive device may be set faster.

Various embodiments of the invention have been described. These and other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

