---

title: Location aware mobile device
abstract: One or more location-based clients can be activated on a mobile device for providing location-based services. The location-based clients can be provided with information (e.g., presets, defaults) related to the current location and/or mode of the mobile device. The information can be obtained from one or more network resources. In some implementations, a number of location-based clients can run concurrently on the mobile device and share information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09578621&OS=09578621&RS=09578621
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 09578621
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160429
---
This application is a continuation and claims the benefit of priority under 35 USC 120 of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 745 638 filed Jun. 22 2015 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 163 858 filed Jun. 27 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 066 199 issued Jun. 23 2015 which claims the benefit of priority from U.S. Patent Application No. 60 946 774 filed Jun. 28 2007. All of these applications are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

Conventional mobile devices are often dedicated to performing a specific application. For example a mobile phone provides telephony services a personal digital assistant PDA provides a way to organize addresses contacts and notes a media player plays content email devices provide email communication etc. Modern mobile devices can include two or more of these applications. Due to the size limitation of a typical mobile device such mobile devices may need to rely on a network or other remote services to support these multiple applications. For example a map service may provide maps to a mobile device over a network which can be used with one or more applications running on the mobile device. The introduction of a positioning system integrated with or coupled to the mobile device provides additional opportunities for providing location based services.

One or more location based clients can be activated on a mobile device for providing location based services. The location based clients can be provided with information e.g. presets defaults related to the current location and or mode of the mobile device. The information can be obtained from one or more network resources. In some implementations a number of location based clients can run concurrently on the mobile device and share information.

In some implementations a method includes activating a first location based client on a mobile device determining a location of the mobile device determining a mode associated with the device transmitting the location and mode to a network resource receiving information related to the location and mode from the network resource and providing the information to the first location based client.

In some implementations a method includes receiving a location of a mobile device receiving a mode associated with the mobile device identifying information related to the location and the mode and transmitting the information to the mobile device.

Other implementations are disclosed which are directed to systems methods and computer readable mediums.

In some implementations the mobile device includes a touch sensitive display . The touch sensitive display can implement liquid crystal display LCD technology light emitting polymer display LPD technology or some other display technology. The touch sensitive display can be sensitive to haptic and or tactile contact with a user.

In some implementations the touch sensitive display can comprise a multi touch sensitive display . A multi touch sensitive display can for example process multiple simultaneous touch points including processing data related to the pressure degree and or position of each touch point. Such processing facilitates gestures and interactions with multiple fingers chording and other interactions. Other touch sensitive display technologies can also be used e.g. a display in which contact is made using a stylus or other pointing device. Some examples of multi touch sensitive display technology are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 323 846 6 570 557 6 677 932 and U.S. Patent Publication 2002 0015024A1 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In some implementations the mobile device can display one or more graphical user interfaces on the touch sensitive display for providing the user access to various system objects and for conveying information to the user. In some implementations the graphical user interface can include one or more display objects . In the example shown the display objects are graphic representations of system objects. Some examples of system objects include device functions applications windows files alerts events or other identifiable system objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement multiple device functionalities such as a telephony device as indicated by a phone object an e mail device as indicated by the e mail object a network data communication device as indicated by the Web object a Wi Fi base station device not shown and a media processing device as indicated by the media player object . In some implementations particular display objects e.g. the phone object the e mail object the Web object and the media player object can be displayed in a menu bar . In some implementations device functionalities can be accessed from a top level graphical user interface such as the graphical user interface illustrated in . Touching one of the objects or can for example invoke corresponding functionality.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement network distribution functionality. For example the functionality can enable the user to take the mobile device and its associated network while traveling. In particular the mobile device can extend Internet access e.g. Wi Fi to other wireless devices in the vicinity. For example mobile device can be configured as a base station for one or more devices. As such mobile device can grant or deny network access to other wireless devices.

In some implementations upon invocation of device functionality the graphical user interface of the mobile device changes or is augmented or replaced with another user interface or user interface elements to facilitate user access to particular functions associated with the corresponding device functionality. For example in response to a user touching the phone object the graphical user interface of the touch sensitive display may present display objects related to various phone functions likewise touching of the email object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various e mail functions touching the Web object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various Web surfing functions and touching the media player object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various media processing functions.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface environment or state of can be restored by pressing a button located near the bottom of the mobile device . In some implementations each corresponding device functionality may have corresponding home display objects displayed on the touch sensitive display and the graphical user interface environment of can be restored by pressing the home display object.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface can include additional display objects such as a short messaging service SMS object a calendar object a photos object a camera object a calculator object a stocks object a weather object a maps object a city guide object a clock object an address book object and a settings object . Touching the SMS display object can for example invoke an SMS messaging environment and supporting functionality likewise each selection of a display object and can invoke a corresponding object environment and functionality.

Additional and or different display objects can also be displayed in the graphical user interface of . For example if the device is functioning as a base station for other devices one or more connection objects may appear in the graphical user interface to indicate the connection. In some implementations the display objects can be configured by a user e.g. a user may specify which display objects are displayed and or may download additional applications or other software that provides other functionalities and corresponding display objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can include one or more input output I O devices and or sensor devices. For example a speaker and a microphone can be included to facilitate voice enabled functionalities such as phone and voice mail functions. In some implementations a loud speaker can be included to facilitate hands free voice functionalities such as speaker phone functions. An audio jack can also be included for use of headphones and or a microphone.

In some implementations a proximity sensor can be included to facilitate the detection of the user positioning the mobile device proximate to the user s ear and in response to disengage the touch sensitive display to prevent accidental function invocations. In some implementations the touch sensitive display can be turned off to conserve additional power when the mobile device is proximate to the user s ear.

Other sensors can also be used. For example in some implementations an ambient light sensor can be utilized to facilitate adjusting the brightness of the touch sensitive display . In some implementations an accelerometer can be utilized to detect movement of the mobile device as indicated by the directional arrow . Accordingly display objects and or media can be presented according to a detected orientation e.g. portrait or landscape. In some implementations the mobile device may include circuitry and sensors for supporting a location determining capability such as that provided by the global positioning system GPS or other positioning systems e.g. systems using Wi Fi access points television signals cellular grids Uniform Resource Locators URLs . In some implementations a positioning system e.g. a GPS receiver can be integrated into the mobile device or provided as a separate device that can be coupled to the mobile device through an interface e.g. port device to provide access to location based services.

The mobile device can also include a camera lens and sensor . In some implementations the camera lens and sensor can be located on the back surface of the mobile device . The camera can capture still images and or video.

The mobile device can also include one or more wireless communication subsystems such as a 802.11b g communication device and or a Bluetooth communication device . Other communication protocols can also be supported including other 802.x communication protocols e.g. WiMax Wi Fi 3G code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE etc.

In some implementations a port device e.g. a Universal Serial Bus USB port or a docking port or some other wired port connection can be included. The port device can for example be utilized to establish a wired connection to other computing devices such as other communication devices network access devices a personal computer a printer or other processing devices capable of receiving and or transmitting data. In some implementations the port device allows the mobile device to synchronize with a host device using one or more protocols such as for example the TCP IP HTTP UDP and any other known protocol.

The mobile devices and can also establish communications by other means. For example the wireless device can communicate with other wireless devices e.g. other wireless devices cell phones etc. over the wireless network . Likewise the mobile devices and can establish peer to peer communications e.g. a personal area network by use of one or more communication subsystems such as the Bluetooth communication device shown in . Other communication protocols and topologies can also be implemented.

The mobile device can for example communicate with one or more services over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example a navigation service can provide navigation information e.g. map information location information route information and other information to the mobile device . In the example shown a user of the mobile device has invoked a map functionality e.g. by pressing the maps object on the top level graphical user interface shown in and has requested and received a map for the location 1 Infinite Loop Cupertino Calif. 

A messaging service can for example provide e mail and or other messaging services. A media service can for example provide access to media files such as song files movie files video clips and other media data. A syncing service can for example perform syncing services e.g. sync files . An activation service can for example perform an activation process for activating the mobile device as described in reference to . Other services can also be provided including a software update service that automatically determines whether software updates exist for software on the mobile device then downloads the software updates to the mobile device where it can be manually or automatically unpacked and or installed.

The mobile device can also access other data and content over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example content publishers such as news sites RSS feeds web sites blogs social networking sites developer networks etc. can be accessed by the mobile device . Such access can be provided by invocation of a web browsing function or application e.g. a browser in response to a user touching the Web object .

Sensors devices and subsystems can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate multiple functionalities. For example a motion sensor a light sensor and a proximity sensor can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate the orientation lighting and proximity functions described with respect to . Other sensors can also be connected to the peripherals interface such as a positioning system e.g. GPS receiver a temperature sensor a biometric sensor or other sensing device to facilitate related functionalities.

A camera subsystem and an optical sensor e.g. a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS optical sensor can be utilized to facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips.

Communication functions can be facilitated through one or more wireless communication subsystems which can include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and or optical e.g. infrared receivers and transmitters. The specific design and implementation of the communication subsystem can depend on the communication network s over which the mobile device is intended to operate. For example a mobile device may include communication subsystems designed to operate over a GSM network a GPRS network an EDGE network a Wi Fi or WiMax network and a Bluetooth network. In particular the wireless communication subsystems may include hosting protocols such that the device may be configured as a base station for other wireless devices.

An audio subsystem can be coupled to a speaker and a microphone to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition voice replication digital recording and telephony functions.

The I O subsystem can include a touch screen controller and or other input controller s . The touch screen controller can be coupled to a touch screen . The touch screen and touch screen controller can for example detect contact and movement or break thereof using any of a plurality of touch sensitivity technologies including but not limited to capacitive resistive infrared and surface acoustic wave technologies as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with the touch screen .

The other input controller s can be coupled to other input control devices such as one or more buttons rocker switches thumb wheel infrared port USB port and or a pointer device such as a stylus. The one or more buttons not shown can include an up down button for volume control of the speaker and or the microphone .

In one implementation a pressing of the button for a first duration may disengage a lock of the touch screen and a pressing of the button for a second duration that is longer than the first duration may turn power to the mobile device on or off. The user may be able to customize a functionality of one or more of the buttons. The touch screen can for example also be used to implement virtual or soft buttons and or a keypad or keyboard.

In some implementations the mobile device can present recorded audio and or video files such as MP3 AAC and MPEG files. In some implementations the mobile device can include the functionality of an MP3 player such as an iPod . The mobile device may therefore include a 36 pin connector that is compatible with the iPod. Other input output and control devices can also be used.

The memory interface can be coupled to memory . The memory can include high speed random access memory and or non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices one or more optical storage devices and or flash memory e.g. NAND NOR . The memory can store an operating system such as Darwin RTXC LINUX UNIX OS X WINDOWS or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks. The operating system may include instructions for handling basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks. In some implementations the operating system can be a kernel e.g. UNIX kernel as described in reference to .

The memory may also store communication instructions to facilitate communicating with one or more additional devices one or more computers and or one or more servers. The memory may include graphical user interface instructions to facilitate graphic user interface processing sensor processing instructions to facilitate sensor related processing and functions phone instructions to facilitate phone related processes and functions electronic messaging instructions to facilitate electronic messaging related processes and functions web browsing instructions to facilitate web browsing related processes and functions media processing instructions to facilitate media processing related processes and functions GPS Navigation instructions to facilitate GPS and navigation related processes and instructions camera instructions to facilitate camera related processes and functions and or other software instructions to facilitate processes and functions as described in reference to . As described below an activation record and IMEI or similar hardware identifier can also be stored in memory .

Each of the above identified instructions and applications can correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above. These instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules. The memory can include additional instructions or fewer instructions. Furthermore various functions of the mobile device may be implemented in hardware and or in software including in one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits.

The OS kernel manages the resources of the mobile device and allows other programs to run and use these resources. Some examples of resources include a processor memory and I O. For example the kernel can determine which running processes should be allocated to a processor processors or processor cores allocates memory to the processes and allocates requests from applications and remote services to perform I O operations. In some implementations the kernel provides methods for synchronization and inter process communications with other devices.

In some implementations the kernel can be stored in non volatile memory of the mobile device . When the mobile device is turned on a boot loader starts executing the kernel in supervisor mode. The kernel then initializes itself and starts one or more processes for the mobile device including a remote access process for remote access management as described in reference to .

The library system provides various services applications running in the application layer . Such services can include audio services video services database services image processing services graphics services location based services etc.

The application framework provides an object oriented application environment including classes and Application Programming Interfaces APIs that can be used by developers to build applications using well known programming languages e.g. Objective C Java .

The applications layer is where various applications exist in the software stack . Developers can use the APIs and environment provided by the application framework to build applications such as the applications represented by the display objects shown in e.g. email media player Web browser phone .

In some implementations the applications layer includes one or more location based clients e.g. applications widgets . In the example shown the applications layer includes a City Guide client a currency converter client a radio client and a world clock client . Other location based clients are possible such as an information directory client e.g. Yellow Pages a music client a weather client a sports client a movie television client a tidal watch client a golf helper client etc. Each of these location based clients will be described in more detail in reference to .

In some implementations the location based clients can make calls to various services provided by the library system . The services can be accessed by the clients through the application framework for example. In the example shown the library system includes a location server and a remote access process . The location server is a server process that communicates with a positioning system e.g. a GPS receiver integrated or coupled to the mobile device and serves the current position coordinates of the mobile device to the location based clients in response to a client request or other trigger event. In some implementations the position coordinates are stored in a location in memory e.g. a reserved memory location which can be accessed by clients . The location server can refresh the location in memory on a periodic basis or in response to a trigger event.

In the example shown the access point includes device drivers a mobile services daemon a mobile services API and one or more mobile service applications . The device drivers are responsible for implementing a transport layer protocol such as TCP IP over USB. The mobile services daemon listens e.g. continuously to the communications channel for activity and manages the transmission of commands and data over the communication channel . The mobile services API provides a set of functions procedures variables and data structures for supporting requests for services made by the mobile services application . The mobile services application can be a client program running on the access point which provides one or more user interfaces for allowing a user to interact with a remote service e.g. activation service over a network e.g. the Internet wireless network peer to peer network optical network Ethernet intranet . The application can allow a user to set preferences download or update files of content or software search databases store user data select services browse content perform financial transactions or engage in any other online service or function. An example of a mobile services application is the iTunes client which is publicly available from Apple Inc. Cupertino Calif. . An example of mobile device that uses the iTunes client is the iPod product developed by Apple Inc.

In an example operational mode a user connects the mobile device to the mobile access point using for example a USB cable. In other implementations the mobile device and access point include wireless transceivers for establishing a wireless link e.g. Wi Fi . The drivers and kernel detect the connection and alert the remote access process and mobile services daemon of the connection status. Once the connection is established certain non sensitive information can be passed from the mobile device to the access point e.g. name disk size activation state to assist in establishing a secure communication session.

In some implementations the remote access process establishes a secure communication session e.g. encrypted SSL session with the access point by implementing a secure network protocol. For example if using SSL protocol the mobile device and access point will negotiate a cipher suite to be used during data transfer establish and share a session key and authenticate the access point to the mobile device . In some implementations if the mobile device is password protected the process will not establish a session and optionally alert the user of the reason for failure.

Once a secure session is successfully established the mobile device and the access point can exchange sensitive information e.g. passwords personal information and remote access to the mobile device can be granted to one or more services e.g. navigation service messaging service media service syncing service activation service . In some implementations the mobile services daemon multiplexes commands and data for transmission over the communication channel . This multiplexing allows several remote services to have access to the mobile device in a single session without the need to start a new session or handshaking for each service requesting access to the mobile device .

In some implementations the City Guide client allows a user to select one of four city guide modes video mode audio mode slide mode and text mode. In this example the user selected the video mode . The video mode provides a video tour of San Francisco using a video display which can be controlled by the user with video controls . In some implementations placemarks e.g. pushpins are overlaid on the video at locations for which there is additional information available. The additional information can be presented on the touch sensitive display in a variety of ways including as a map or through a directory or other user interface element or control e.g. a menu system . In the example shown the location currently shown in the video display is the Golden Gate Bridge which is marked with pushpin . The location is also marked on the map with a corresponding pushpin . Some examples of locations that could be represented on a map by placemarks include businesses e.g. restaurants lodging services e.g. hospitals police and attractions e.g. parks picnic areas monuments .

The directory can include several user interface elements that can be selected e.g. touched by a finger or stylus to provide additional information related to the location marked by the pushpins and which in this example is the Golden Gate Bridge. In some implementations the directory can include user interface elements e.g. buttons that can be selected to display information about restaurants lodging parks picnic areas and or businesses in the vicinity of the Golden Gate Bridge. The current weather can also be shown or any other information relevant to the current location of the mobile device . In some implementations advertisements for products or services related to the location and or a mode e.g. video mode of the mobile device can be presented on the mobile device using display means e.g. the touch sensitive display and or audio means e.g. a ring tone text to speech voicemail an audio file .

Other city guide modes can also be selected by the user. For example an audio mode can be selected to provide an audio tour of San Francisco a slide mode can be selected to provide a slide show of San Francisco and a text mode can be selected to provide an electronic guide book of San Francisco. In some implementations one or more modes can be combined to provide a multimedia presentation.

An advantage of the implementation just described is the ability of location based clients to share information. In the example shown the device coordinates were provided by the location server . In some implementations when the user selects the video mode the mobile device establishes a communication session with a remote service e.g. a server over a communications channel e.g. wired or wireless link . The mobile device provides the service with the position coordinates of the mobile device and the service returns video map and directory information to the mobile device where it can be used by one or more location based clients. In some implementations the service provides presets or default values for loading into one or more location based clients. As the user navigates the video guide with the controls information regarding the current location is shared with a map service for rendering the map and for determining which information to list in the directory .

Other location based clients include a currency converter which can be loaded with a preset for converting currency based on the location of the mobile device . In this example the currency converter allows the user to convert from a desired foreign currency to U.S. currency or vice versa. Another client can be a radio client for streaming music by local artists and providing local concert information. The radio client could be loaded with presets for local radio stations. A Yellow Pages client could be loaded with local listings. A weather client could be loaded with local weather conditions a world clock client could be loaded with the local time a tidal watch client could be loaded with local tide tables e.g. for use by surfers and fisherman a golf helper client could be loaded with information about local golf courses e.g. notes about the course conditions pars and strategies for playing the holes . All or some of these clients can operate on the mobile device either alone or concurrently with other clients and share information. In some implementations information from a first client can be used to change properties or attributes of a second location based client e.g. change a user interface associated with a client . In some implementations activating a first location based client causes a second location based client to activate.

In some implementations the user can interact with the clients and leave information which can be uploaded from the mobile device to the service where it can be accessed by or shared with other users. For example the user could touch a pushpin and be provided with information regarding the location marked by the pushpin . Additionally a text box or other input mechanism can be presented for allowing the user to enter information or attach content e.g. digital photos which can be sent to the service.

The location and or a mode of the mobile device is determined . The location e.g. latitude longitude can be determined by a positioning system integrated in or coupled to the mobile device. The location can be determined independent of whether any client is currently active. The location and or mode can be transmitted to one or more network resources . The network resources can use the location and or mode to identify relevant information to send to the mobile device. In some implementations the information can be selected based on the type of location based client requesting the information.

A mode can indicate a state of the device or a context based on user activity. For example if the user is browsing the web with the mobile device then the mobile device can provide a context mode descriptor to the service indicating that the user is currently in a browsing mode. The descriptor can also include search terms a current web page URL historical browsing patterns e.g. URLs of cached web pages bookmarks etc. The service can use the descriptor to provide location based services and or content. In another example if the user is taking digital pictures with the mobile device e.g. a camera integrated with a mobile phone then the mobile device can send a state mode descriptor to the service indicating that the user is currently taking a digital picture. The service can use the descriptor to provide location based service such a link to a camera store or a website where the user can upload and share their photos. In another example an audio mode descriptor can be set to the service for indicating that the user is currently listening to music e.g. operating an MP3 player . The service can use the audio mode descriptor to provide location based services and or content related to music. The audio mode descriptor could also include information about the song being played such as title artist genre etc.

The information is received by the mobile device and provided to the location based client requesting the information . In some implementations the information can be updated periodically or in response to a trigger event while the location based client is in operation.

In some implementations each location based client has a unique identifier that can be sent to the service so that the service knows the type of client that will be using the information. In the example shown the mobile device can send one or more identifiers or descriptors to the service that indicate that the user is running a City Guide location based client and that a video mode has been selected. The service can then use the identifiers and the location information to download a video city guide for San Francisco.

In some implementations a mobile device connected to a communications network may download a tour which is an association of data and locations. For example a set of video music spoken or text content associated with various points on a path such as a road or trail for education tourism recreation etc. In some implementations a set of speeds or other vehicle related recommendations can also be downloaded. The recommendations can include for example suggested gear shifts associated with specific road segments for energy efficient driving and safety.

In some implementations a mobile device in association with a location aware system e.g. GPS accelerometer inertial measurement unit can play data or content associated with a path or road as a tour is traveled by a person or vehicle. For example video music spoken or text content may be presented as the user moves through the associated locations on a walk or drive. Alternatively the vehicle related settings and recommendations e.g. gear position speed may be displayed or presented as the vehicle moves through the various segments of the drive. In this embodiment real time data from the vehicle e.g. remaining charge remaining fuel etc. may be used to fine tune or adjust the recommendations for the rest of the path traveled. Vehicle equipment can be used as a display system or presentation system. For example the vehicle s GPS or other console can be used to display video or text and the vehicle s speaker system can be used to play audio. The mobile device can communicate tour data and content to vehicle equipment through a wired or wireless link e.g. cable Bluetooth link .

In some implementations an accelerometer based system with a processor and a memory can improve location estimates during for example a walking or driving tour. Given an accurate start point and a route the system can determine that a particular path or route is being followed based on detection of turns and direction of turns. As the vehicle or user moves up and down over highway ramps major dips in the road bridges etc. the accelerometer can detect changes in vertical velocity and map a vertical velocity change profile of the vehicle to one of several possible routes. The velocity change profile can be combined with the turn information and or GPS or other positioning technology e.g. Wi Fi cell tower triangulation to improve location estimates for the vehicle.

In some implementations a tour s content may change depending on the direction and speed of the mobile device . For example if a user is heading North the mobile device may present the user with material for destinations that the user is about to reach. Thus in addition to receiving content based on current location the service can determine e.g. predict the user s future locations based on sensor data route traveled landmarks etc. and provide location based services and or content based on those future locations. In some implementations the way content is presented to a user can change based on user s travel speed. For example a speedy traveler could receive heading pages for prior saved media and a strolling traveler could see a complete presentation.

The features described can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The features can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by a programmable processor and method steps can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output.

After the mobile device is activated in some implementations the remote access process monitors remote access requests and sets up and tears down secure sessions as needed. Thus in such an implementation all remote access requests are managed by a single remote access process . If a user alters the mobile device e.g. changing a SIM card the remote access process will detect the change and initiate an action such as starting a new activation process .

The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language e.g. Objective C Java including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors or cores of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include e.g. a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made. For example elements of one or more implementations may be combined deleted modified or supplemented to form further implementations. As yet another example the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

