---

title: Techniques to process text messages for communication to an emergency service provider
abstract: Various embodiments are generally directed to an apparatus, method and other techniques for receiving an indication of one or more errors in a message, the message for communication to an emergency service provider and storing correction information including at least the one or more errors in the memory. Embodiments may also include receiving an indication to communicate the message to the emergency service provider and causing an original version of the message and a corrected version of the message to be communicated to the emergency service provider, the original version to include the one or more errors and the corrected version to include corrections for the one or more errors.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09432829&OS=09432829&RS=09432829
owner: Bandwidth.com, Inc.
number: 09432829
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160407
---
Embodiments described herein generally relate to techniques to process messages for communication to an emergency service provider.

Various embodiments are generally directed to an apparatus system and method to process emergency text messages for emergency service providers. For example embodiments may include enabling communication of an emergency text message via one or more wireless networks such as a cellular network or a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP . Based on the information in the emergency text message the emergency service provider are able to dispatch emergency service personnel to aid someone experiencing an emergency situation. As can be appreciated the emergency service provider would like to receive as much and as accurate information as possible about the emergency situation. Thus embodiments may include providing more than one version of the message to the emergency service provider.

For example some embodiments may include providing an original version of a message and a corrected version of the message. The original version of the message may include the text of the message as the user inputted it into a messaging application. The original version may include errors abbreviations Internet slang e.g. lol tbh thx np etc. and so forth. The corrected version of the message may include results of one or more auto correction operations performed on the original message attempting to resolve or clarify the errors abbreviation and Internet slang. As can be appreciate auto correction operations do not always correctly fix errors. For example an auto correction may incorrectly change a misspelled word from the intended word to a completely different word having a different meaning. Therefore providing the emergency service provider with different versions of the same message may enable to more accurately determine the content and intention of the message. These and other details will be discussed further in the following description.

Reference is now made to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding thereof. It may be evident however that the novel embodiments can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate a description thereof. The intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives consistent with the claimed subject matter.

Further the emergency service provider system enables communication with an emergency service provider via one or more of a cellular network and a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP network . The device may be communicatively coupled with a cellular network a VoIP network or both and enabled to wirelessly communicate one or more text messages to the emergency service provider for example. Note that the text messages may include Short Message Service SMS messages instant messages IMs or any other type of text based message.

In embodiments the cellular network may include infrastructure such as one or more radio service towers equipment and devices to process a wireless communication communicated as radio signals. For example a radio service tower may receive a wireless communication as one or more wireless radio signals from the device . The signals may include information destined from the PSAP and may be processed by receiving circuitry converters modulators and so forth. Further cellular network may also include devices such as switches routers and other circuitry to process the received wireless communications. In some embodiments the cellular network may be communicatively coupled with or include a switching center such as a mobile switching center MSC or a short message service center SMSC . The switching center may receive and route communications to and from the device . In the case of an emergency text message the switching center may determine which of any number of Public Safety Answering Points PSAPs the text message should be routed to based for example on the location of the device and a defined geographic area for which a particular PSAP is responsible. Generally speaking this routing can be based on a set of information maintained in a location service database not shown within the switching center or elsewhere and accessible by the switching center .

In some embodiments the switching center can provide all or a portion of the calling number e.g. the area code and exchange number NPA NXX numbers to the location service which can return a set of Vertical and Horizontal V H coordinates for that calling number. The switching center can then use the V H coordinates to derive a spatial location e.g. expressed as a latitude and longitude for the texting or calling number. The spatial location can then be used with a point in polygon check by the switching center to determine the particular PSAP that should receive the call or text. In addition embodiments make use of Local Routing Numbers LRN to determine the geographic location of the device who may have ported their number from a different geographic location.

In one example the device may communicate an emergency text message that can be received by the switching center . The switching center may determine a spatial location for the device and once the spatial location of the device has been determined a PSAP for handling the emergency text can be identified by the switching center based on the determined spatial location for the device . For example identifying the PSAP for handling the emergency call can include the switching center using a point in polygon check of the determined spatial location for the calling number against known spatial boundaries for a set of PSAPs e.g. based on longitude and latitude coordinates for each. Once a PSAP for handling the text has been identified the emergency text message can be routed by the switching center to the identified PSAP which may process the emergency text message and dispatch emergency personnel.

In some embodiments the emergency service provider system may enable the device to communicate voice communications and text communications via a VoIP network and provide emergency services via a VoIP service provider system . The VoIP network includes any number of networking devices and interconnects to enable device to communicate voice text and data communications. For example the VoIP network may include access points modems routers switches gateways servers and so forth to provide an Internet Protocol IP network such as the Internet and or any other local area or wide area network for sending and receiving calls and text messages including but not limited to emergency texts e.g. text messages. The devices of the VoIP network may enable communication of information in IP packets for example over a switched network.

In embodiments the emergency service provider system may also include a VoIP service provider system which may receive and route calls texts and other communications to and from the device . In the case of an emergency text the VoIP service provider system may determine which of any number of PSAPs the emergency text should be routed to based for example on the location of VoIP device such as an access point and VoIP Gateway and a defined geographic area for which a particular PSAP is responsible. Generally speaking this routing can be based on a set of information maintained in a database or other storage structure in the VoIP service provider system or elsewhere and accessible by the VoIP service provider system . This set of information can include an address associated with each of a set of telephone numbers and may be referenced by the VoIP service provider system when routing an emergency texts from one of the device to appropriate PSAP .

In various embodiments the device may be embodied as a communication station a mobile station an advanced station a client a platform a wireless communication device a mobile computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a tablet computer a server computer a set top box a handheld computer a handheld device a Personal Digital Assistant PDA device a handheld PDA device netbook a mobile telephone a smart phone a mobile cellular telephone and so forth.

The device may include one or more processors which controls one or more operations of the device . A processor may be one or more of any type of computational element such as but not limited to a microprocessor a processor central processing unit digital signal processing unit dual core processor mobile device processor desktop processor single core processor a system on chip SoC device complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor a reduced instruction set RISC microprocessor a very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor or any other type of processor or processing circuit on a single chip or integrated circuit. For example a processor may include a graphical processing unit GPU for processing graphical and video information in various embodiments. In some embodiments a processor may be connected to and communicate with the other elements of the computing system via an interconnect such as one or more buses control lines and data lines.

The device also includes memory which may be one or more of random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory and hard disk memory. The memory is not limited to these memory components. For example the memory may include a non transitory computer readable storage medium. These memory components can store data momentarily temporarily or permanently. The memory stores instructions and data for device . The memory may also store temporary variables or other intermediate information while a processor is executing instructions. For example the memory may store correction information to determine an original message and or a corrected message for an emergency service provider . In some embodiments this information may be stored in storage . These and other details will become more apparent in the following description.

In some embodiments the device may also include one or more input device and output devices . An input device may include one or more buttons a keyboard a keypad a touchscreen display a touch sensitive device a microphone a camera or any other device used for inputting information into the device . An output device may be a speaker a haptic feedback device one or more light emitting diodes a buzzer a vibration device and so forth. In some embodiments the device may include one or more displays such as a liquid crystal display LCD . In embodiments these and other devices may be coupled with the device via one or more interfaces and communicate with a processor and memory via interconnect for example. An interface can be a parallel port IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a universal serial bus USB port an infra red IR interface and so forth.

The device may include one or more transceivers coupled with one or more antennas for reception and transmission of information messages packets frames and so forth between other devices. In some embodiments a transceiver may include a transmitter and a receiver to allow transmission and reception of information and data between the device and a remote location such as a PSAP via a cellular network and or a VoIP network . The transmitter and receiver may be combined into the transceiver . The antenna s may be attached to the device and electrically and communicatively coupled to the transceiver . The device may also include not shown multiple transmitters multiple receivers multiple transceivers and or multiple antennas. For example the device may include a first transceiver capable of communicating via the cellular network and a second transceiver capable of communicating via the VoIP network .

In embodiments the device and the transceiver s can communicate in a wireless network or VoIP network such as a Local Area Network LAN a Wireless LAN WLAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN a Wireless MAN WMAN a Wide Area Network WAN a Wireless WAN WWAN devices and or networks operating in accordance with existing Next Generation mmWave NGms D02 r0 Nov. 28 2008 Wireless Gigabit Alliance WGA IEEE 802.11 802.11a 802.11b 802.11e 802.11g 802.11 h 802.11i 802.11n 802.11ac 802.16 802.16d 802.16e standards and or future versions and or derivatives and or Long Term Evolution LTE of the above standards a Personal Area Network PAN a Wireless PAN WPAN units and or devices which are part of the above WLAN and or PAN and or WPAN networks one way and or two way radio communication systems cellular radio telephone communication systems a cellular telephone a wireless telephone a Personal Communication Systems PCS device a PDA device which incorporates a wireless communication device a Multiple Input Multiple Output MIMO transceiver or device a Single Input Multiple Output SIMO transceiver or device a Multiple Input Single Output MISO transceiver or device a Maximum Ratio Combining MRC transceiver or device a transceiver or device having smart antenna technology or multiple antenna technology or the like.

Some embodiments may be used in conjunction with one or more types of wireless communication signals and or systems for example Radio Frequency RF Infra Red IR Frequency Division Multiplexing FDM Orthogonal FDM OFDM OFDMA Time Division Multiplexing TDM Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Extended TDMA E TDMA General Packet Radio Service GPRS Extended GPRS Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 Multi Carrier Modulation MDM Discrete Multi Tone DMT Bluetooth ZigBee or the like. Embodiments may be used in various other apparatuses devices systems and or networks.

In embodiments the device may also include storage capable of storing information and data. By way of example storage may be disk drives optical storage devices solid state storage device such as a random access memory RAM and or a read only memory ROM which may be programmable flash updateable and or the like. In embodiments the storage may store applications an emergency text manager and an operating system OS which may be executed by a processor and utilize memory for temporary storage of instructions and data.

In embodiments the device may include an operating system such as Android Apple iOS Symbian Blackberry OS Windows OS Palm OS and so forth. The operating system may provide and environment and enable other applications to operate within. Further the device may include any number of applications include games content applications media applications functionality and utility applications social networking applications business and productivity applications lifestyle applications and communication applications. For example the device may include a messaging application to enable a user to communicate text communications messages via one or more networks and . In some instances a user may desire to communicate a text message to an emergency service provider to report an emergency. In addition or as part of a messaging application the device may include an emergency text manger to assist in providing text messages to the emergency service provider .

The emergency text manager may be part of a messaging application such as an instant messaging client or SMS messaging client and or communicate with the messaging application via an application programming interface API to enable various features discussed herein. In various embodiments the emergency manager may monitor and or detect whether a message is directed to an emergency service provider . For example the emergency text manager may receive and or retrieve information via an API for example indicating the address of an emergency service provider is indicated in an address field of the messaging application. In another example the emergency text manager may receive an indication that one or more keywords such as help accident wreck emergency and so forth are within the body of a message and may prompt a user as to whether the text message is to be directed to the emergency service provider . Embodiments are not limited in this manner.

In some embodiments the emergency text manager may enable the device to provide an original version of a message and a corrected version of a message to an emergency service provider . Generally an operator at an emergency service provider desires to receive as much information as possible about an incident. Thus by providing an original version and a corrected version of a message an operator may determine whether any errors were incorrectly corrected in the message and may be able to discern more information than if only a corrected version and or original version of the message was communicated.

Thus embodiments may include the emergency text manager storing correction information such as an original version of a message in memory or storage for later communication to the emergency service provider . For example the emergency text manager may detect or receive information indicating that one or more errors are present in a message and store the correction information including uncorrected errors. In some instances the text manager may determine errors exist based on detection of the errors and an auto correction operation to be performed on the message. The detection by the emergency text manager may occur in real time as each error is detected and or corrected by the auto correction operation.

In some embodiments the emergency text manager may store the entire text of a message including the uncorrected errors. Alternatively the emergency text manager may store only the uncorrected errors and indications of positions or location information indicating a placement of the uncorrected errors in the message. The indications of positions may include a proceeding and or subsequent word in the message a word count from the first word a line indicator and word position in a line of text and so forth. The correction information may be updated after each detection and or correction of an error. For example each error may be detected and or corrected while a user is typing the words for the message.

In various embodiments the emergency text manager may detect when a user has completed a message and desires to send the message to the emergency service provider . For example the emergency text manager may receive an indication via an API that a send button has been initiated. Based on the detection the emergency text manager may cause the original version and the corrected version of the message to be sent to the emergency service provider .

In some embodiments the emergency text manager may receive a corrected version of the message from the messaging application and retrieve the original version of the message stored in memory or storage to send to the emergency service provider . In some instances the emergency text manager may generate the original version of the message based on the uncorrected errors stored in memory or storage and the indications of positions of the uncorrected errors. For example the emergency text manager may generate the original version of the message by replacing corrected errors in the corrected message with the uncorrected errors based on the location indications. Embodiments are not limited in this manner.

In some embodiments the emergency text manager may generate a redline version of the corrected message to send to the emergency provider . For example the emergency text manager may receive and or retrieve the corrected version of the message and insert the uncorrected errors in the corrected version to generate a redline version. In some instances each uncorrected error may be placed immediately preceding or subsequent a corresponding correction in the corrected message. The placement of the uncorrected error may be based on the indications of positions or locations stored with each uncorrected error. Further the emergency text manager may provide an indication of the uncorrected error in the corrected message. For example each uncorrected error may be highlighted in the corrected message by one or more of an underline mark a pair of brackets a pair of parenthesis an italics font a bold font and so forth. Embodiments are not limited in this manner and other indicators may be used to highlight the uncorrected errors in the corrected version of the message.

The emergency text manager may provide other features for the device . For example the emergency text manager may control whether corrected errors are presented on the display of the device while an auto correction operation corrects errors. In some instances a user may desire to see the original message intended for an emergency provider . Thus the message with the errors may be presented on the display while each error may be corrected but not presented on the display . In some embodiments the stored correction information may include the corrected message and or corrected errors and indications of positions of the corrected errors. The stored corrected errors may be used to generate and send the corrected version of the message to the emergency service provider . The corrected version of the message which may or may not include redlines may be generated and communicated with the original version of the message to the emergency service provider once a user desires to send the message.

Thus in embodiments the emergency text manager may store correction information including uncorrected errors and associated positions corrected errors and associated positions or both such that it can recreate the original message the corrected message or both. In some instances the correction information may include the entire original version of the message which may be updated in real time as a user enters additional text and words. Similarly the correction information may include the entire corrected message which may be updated in real time as a user enters additional text and words and corrections are made. Embodiments are not limited in this manner. These and other details will become apparent in the following description.

The logic flow may be one example processing flow to cause an original version and a corrected version of a message to be communicated to an emergency service provider. In embodiments the logic flow may include determining or detecting an execution of a messaging application at block . For example the emergency text manager may include a process that receives an indication that a messaging application has been initiated by a user of a device via an API. The indication may include a process identification for the execution of the messaging application. In some embodiments the emergency text manager may be part of or hooked into one or more messaging applications and also may be initiated when a user executes or initiates a messaging application. In some embodiments the emergency text manager may also receive an indication that a user desires to send a particular message to an emergency service provider. For example the emergency text manager may receive an indication via an API when an emergency service provider s address is in an address field of the messaging application. Embodiments are not limited in this manner.

At block an indication of error and or an indication of an attempt to correct an error may be received. For example the emergency text manager may receive an indication via the API that an error has been detected by a messaging application or an auto correction operation. Said differently the messaging application may communicate information via one or more message using an API when an error is detected in a message. The information may be based on the detection of the error itself or when auto correction operation attempts to correct the error. Further the indication of the error may be receive prior to the correction of the error in some instances. Embodiments are not limited to this example.

At block correction information may be stored in memory or storage for the message. The correction information may include the uncorrected error such as a misspelled word a misplaced or incorrect grammar character formatting errors and so forth. The uncorrected error may be the error before an auto correction operation has been performed to correct the error. In addition the correction information may also include an indication of a position or location of the uncorrected error in the message. The indication of position may include one or more of a word count for the error a line number a position in a line of text and so forth. In some instances the correction information may also include the corrected error e.g. the result of an auto correction operation being performed on the error. The correction information may also include an indication of a position or location of a corrected error. In some embodiments the correction information may include more than just the uncorrected error or the correction. The entire text of a message including uncorrected errors may be stored in memory and or storage as an original message for example. Similarly the correction information may include the entire text of a message including corrected errors as a corrected message in memory and or storage. Embodiments are not limited in this manner.

At decision block a determination may be made as to whether a user desires to send the message to an emergency service provider. For example the emergency text manager may receive an indication via an API indicating that a user has invoke a send command using an input such as a send button. If the emergency text manager determines that the message is to be sent at block at block the emergency text manager may cause both the original message original version of the message and the corrected message corrected version of the message to be sent to the emergency service provider. In embodiments the emergency text manager may communicate the original version prior to sending the corrected version of the message. In some embodiments the original version and corrected version may be sent in the same message and have indications indicating which is the original version and which is the corrected version. For example a title for each version of the message may be added to the message s .

In some embodiments emergency text manager may retrieve the entire original message and or corrected message stored in memory and cause them to be communicated to the emergency service provider. In some embodiments the emergency text manager may generate the original message corrected message or both with uncorrected errors and or corrected errors stored in memory. For example the emergency text manager may generate an original message using stored uncorrected errors indications of position for the uncorrected errors and a corrected message by replacing the corrections in the corrected message with the uncorrected errors. Similarly the emergency text manager may generate a corrected message using stored corrected errors indications of position for the corrected errors and an original message by replacing the uncorrected errors in the original message with the corrected errors. Embodiments are not limited in this manner. In some embodiments the corrected version of the message may include redlines as will be discussed in more detail below in .

If at decision block a communication attempt is not detected the emergency text manager may wait for a period of time such as a number of seconds milliseconds nanoseconds and so forth and make a determination as to whether any additional errors are detected at decision block . If no indication of error is detected at block the emergency text manager may continue to wait until the message is communicated or another error is detected. If an error is detected at block the emergency text manager may store correction information based on the detected error and blocks may repeat. Embodiments are not limited in this manner.

The logic flow may be one example processing flow to cause an original version and a corrected version including redlines of a message to be communicated to an emergency service provider. At block a communication attempt may be detected to send a message to an emergency service provider. For example and as previously discussed in logic flow the emergency text manager may receive an indication via an API indicating that a user has invoked a send command via an input such as a send button. At decision block a determination may be made as whether any corrections were made to the message. For example the emergency text manager may determine whether any correction information for the message is stored in memory and or storage. If no correction information exists for the message the emergency text manager may determine that no corrections were made and cause the message to be communicated to the emergency service provider at block . However if corrections were made to the message a redline version of the message may be generated at block . For example the emergency text manager may generate a redline version of the corrected message e.g. a redline message to send to the emergency provider. The emergency text manager may receive and or retrieve the corrected message and insert the uncorrected errors in the corrected message to generate the redline version of the message. In some instances each uncorrected error may be placed immediately preceding or subsequent a corresponding correction in the corrected message. The placement of the uncorrected error may be based on the indications of positions or locations stored with each uncorrected error. Further the emergency text manager may provide an indication of the uncorrected error in the corrected message. For example each uncorrected error may be highlighted in the corrected message by one or more of an underline mark a pair of brackets a pair of parenthesis an italics font a bold font and so forth. Embodiments are not limited in this manner and other indicators may be used to highlight the uncorrected errors in the corrected message. Further and in some embodiments the corrected errors may be highlighted in the redline version of the message.

At block the emergency text manager may cause the original version of the message to be communicated to the emergency service provider. Further and at block the emergency text manager may cause the redline version of the message to be communicated to the emergency service provider. In embodiments the emergency text manager may communicate the original version prior to sending the redline version or corrected version of the message. In some embodiments the original version and redline version or corrected version may be sent in the same message and have indications indicating which is the original version and which is the redline version or the corrected version. For example a title for each version of the message may be added to the message s . Embodiments are not limited in this manner.

The logic flow may be one example processing flow to control whether corrections for errors are presented to a user or not presented to a user. At block an indication of an error in a message may be received. For example an emergency text manager may receive an indication via an API that an error has been detected by a messaging application or an auto correction operation. The indication of the error may be received prior to the correction of the error in some instances. Embodiments are not limited to this example in some instances the indication may indicate that the auto correction operation is performing an auto correction on an error in the message for example.

At block an indication of completion of an error correction may be received. For example the emergency text manager may receive via an API information indicating that an auto correction operation has been performed and the error has been corrected. At decision block a determination may be made as whether to present or not present the result of the auto correction operation on a display. For example embodiments may enable a user to control a setting such that corrections of errors in messages sent to an emergency service provider are not presented or vice versa. In some embodiments the setting may be a default setting or a factory setting. Thus based on the setting the correction may or may not be presented to a user. Note that in either case the auto correction may be performed to generate the correction version of the message for sending to the emergency service provider. At block the result of the auto correction operation is not presented to a user on a display. At block the result of the auto correction operation is presented to a user on the display. Embodiments are not limited in this manner.

In the illustrated embodiment the display is presenting a messaging application to send an instant message or text message to another device or system. The messaging application may provide a graphical user interface GUI such that a user may enter information including where to send the message in a recipient address field . The address field may be used by one or more components discussed herein such the emergency text manager to determine whether a message is directed to an emergency service provider or not. For example and as illustrated the recipient address field may include an address for the emergency service provider such as 911. The emergency service provider may use the information in the address field to determine the message is directed to the emergency service provider.

The messaging application may also include a sending address field which may include information to identify a sender of the message. In some embodiments the information may specify one or more of a name of a sender a return phone number of the send a determined address for the sender and so forth. Embodiments are not limited in this manner.

In embodiments the messaging application may provide a text input area to enable a user to enter text to send as the body of a message. The text may be any combination of alphanumeric characters and symbols. The text may be enter by a user using an input device such as physical keyboard on the device or a virtual keyboard presented on the display .

Moreover a user may enter text into the messaging application in real time and the display may be updated in real time as the user enters information. In some embodiments the user may enter text including one or more errors which may be presented in the text input area . The errors may be corrected but the results of the corrections may or may not be presented in the text input area as previously discussed.

Messages and may be communicated to the emergency service provider as a single message or multiple messages. Thus the emergency service provider may receive a single message including both the original message and the corrected or redline message. However embodiments are not limited in this manner. For example the number of characters communicated in a single message may be limited and messages and may be communicated in multiple messages to the emergency service provider.

In embodiments the messages and may include an original version of the message and a corrected version of the message. The original version may be identified by an original text identifier and the corrected version may be identified by a corrected text identifier . The original version may include information entered by a user without any error corrections and the corrected version may include information entered by the user with error corrections made by an auto correction operation for example. In some embodiments and as illustrated in the corrected version may include redline text which may be highlighted by redline indicators . The redline text may include the corrections in a location proximate to an associated uncorrected errors. Alternatively and as illustrated in the corrected message may include redline text which may be the uncorrected text and highlighted by redline indicators .

At block the logic flow may include storing correction information including at least the one or more errors in the memory. Moreover correction information for each detected error and correction may be stored in memory. Thus an original version of the message and a corrected version of the message may be generated based on the correction information stored in memory. Note that embodiments are not limited to storing the correction information memory and in some instances storage may be used to store the correction information.

At block the logic flow may include receiving an indication to communicate the message to the emergency service provider. For example the emergency text manager may receive information in one or more messages via an API from a messaging application indicating that a user has invoked a communication send routine for the message. For example a user may tap a send button a display of a device causing one or more messages to be sent to the emergency text manager

The logic flow may include causing an original version of the message and a corrected version of the message to be communicated to the emergency service provider the original version to include the one or more errors and the corrected version to include corrections for the one or more errors at block . For example the emergency text manager may utilize one or more transceivers to communicate each version of the message to an emergency service provider via a network e.g. a cellular network or a VoIP network. Embodiments are not limited in this manner.

As used in this application the terms system module and component are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution examples of which are provided by the exemplary computing architecture . For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical and or magnetic storage medium an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Further components may be communicatively coupled to each other by various types of communications media to coordinate operations. The coordination may involve the uni directional or bi directional exchange of information. For instance the components may communicate information in the form of signals communicated over the communications media. The information can be implemented as signals allocated to various signal lines. In such allocations each message is a signal. Further embodiments however may alternatively employ data messages. Such data messages may be sent across various connections. Exemplary connections include parallel interfaces serial interfaces and bus interfaces.

The computing architecture includes various common computing elements such as one or more processors multi core processors co processors memory units chipsets controllers peripherals interfaces oscillators timing devices video cards audio cards multimedia input output I O components power supplies and so forth. The embodiments however are not limited to implementation by the computing architecture .

As shown in the computing architecture includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors.

The system bus provides an interface for system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. Interface adapters may connect to the system bus via slot architecture. Example slot architectures may include without limitation Accelerated Graphics Port AGP Card Bus Extended Industry Standard Architecture E ISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA NuBus Peripheral Component Interconnect Extended PCI X PCI Express Personal Computer Memory Card International may include or implement various articles of manufacture. An article of manufacture may include a computer readable storage medium to store logic. Examples of a computer readable storage medium may include any tangible media capable of storing electronic data including volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of logic may include executable computer program instructions implemented using any suitable type of code such as source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code object oriented code visual code and the like. Embodiments may also be at least partly implemented as instructions contained in or on a non transitory computer readable medium which may be read and executed by one or more processors to enable performance of the operations described herein.

The system memory may include various types of computer readable storage media in the form of one or more higher speed memory units such as read only memory ROM random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory polymer memory such as ferroelectric polymer memory ovonic memory phase change or ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards an array of devices such as Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID drives solid state memory devices e.g. USB memory solid state drives SSD and any other type of storage media suitable for storing information. In the illustrated embodiment shown in the system memory can include non volatile memory and or volatile memory . A basic input output system BIOS can be stored in the non volatile memory .

The computer may include various types of computer readable storage media in the form of one or more lower speed memory units including an internal or external hard disk drive HDD a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD to read from or write to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive to read from or write to a removable optical disk e.g. a CD ROM or DVD . The HDD FDD and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a HDD interface an FDD interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The HDD interface for external drive implementations can include at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies.

The drives and associated computer readable media provide volatile and or nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For example a number of program modules can be stored in the drives and memory units including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . In one embodiment the one or more application programs other program modules and program data can include for example the various applications and or components of a system.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wire wireless input devices for example a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices may include microphones infra red IR remote controls radio frequency RF remote controls game pads stylus pens card readers dongles finger print readers gloves graphics tablets joysticks keyboards retina readers touch screens e.g. capacitive resistive etc. trackballs trackpads sensors styluses and the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface and so forth.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adaptor . The monitor may be internal or external to the computer . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices such as speakers printers and so forth.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wire and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wire wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks for example a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which may connect to a global communications network for example the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a wire and or wireless communication network interface or adaptor . The adaptor can facilitate wire and or wireless communications to the LAN which may also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless functionality of the adaptor .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wire and or wireless device connects to the system bus via the input device interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with wire and wireless devices or entities using the IEEE 802 family of standards such as wireless devices operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. IEEE 802.11 over the air modulation techniques . This includes at least Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity WiMax and Bluetooth wireless technologies among others. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11x a b g n etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wire networks which use IEEE 802.3 related media and functions .

The various elements of the computing devices as previously described with reference to may include various hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include devices logic devices components processors microprocessors circuits processors circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD digital signal processors DSP field programmable gate array FPGA memory units logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software elements may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs software development programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. However determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints as desired for a given implementation.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression one embodiment or an embodiment along with their derivatives. These terms mean that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Further some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not necessarily intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

It is emphasized that the Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow a reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

What has been described above includes examples of the disclosed architecture. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components and or methodologies but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly the novel architecture is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

