---

title: Remote processing of mobile applications
abstract: In an example implementation of the disclosed technology, a method includes accessing, by a management agent associated with a client device, a profile associated with a requested resource, wherein the profile comprises at least one profile criterion. The method also includes evaluating the profile criterion based, at least in part, on status information associated with the client device to determine any processing restrictions associated with the requested resource. The method also includes, responsive to receiving an indication that the resource is subject to a server-device processing restriction, requesting access to the resource from a remote server and receiving an instance of a user interface for interacting with the resource.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09591001&OS=09591001&RS=09591001
owner: AirWatch LLC
number: 09591001
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160712
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 502 921 entitled Remote Processing of Mobile Applications and filed Sep. 30 2014 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Employee utilized client devices e.g. smartphones tablets laptops provide significant productivity advantages for enterprises. As the cost of client devices continues to decrease and the computing power of client devices continues to increase it has become more feasible for employees to utilize client devices to complete most if not all of their work duties. Consequently information technology departments IT Departments struggle with striking a balance between providing employees with access to enterprise resources i.e. data and ensuring the security and integrity of enterprise resources. A common solution for such problem is having the IT Department remotely manage client devices with access to enterprise data. But IT Departments continue to be challenged in ensuring that employees have access via their client device to certain resources and particularly enterprise resources while maintaining the security of those resources.

Client device users are capable of accessing many different types of resources via their client device. For example client device users may access various apps which may include email applications calendars games weather applications web browsers and other client device enabled applications. Further client device users may access various content which may include documents spreadsheets and many other such client device accessible resources. In particular client device users may utilize their client device to access enterprise related resources which may include enterprise specific applications and content.

In an enterprise context it is often preferable to provide added security to client device accessible resources. For example enterprise resources may contain sensitive information such as contact lists customer or client correspondence financial information intellectual property and various other information relating to the enterprise. In certain scenarios client devices may not afford sufficient protection to resources that contain or provide access to certain sensitive information. Accordingly enterprise administrators may configure profiles that constrain the manner in which a client device can access a resource. For example a profile may specify that processing of a resource must occur remotely at for example a secure remote server. Additionally a profile may specify that processing of certain aspects of the resource must occur remotely while processing of other aspects can occur at the client device.

A profile may also be configured to constrain the manner in which a user of a client device may engage a resource depending on status information associated with the client device i.e. the client device requesting access to the resource . Accordingly in certain situations a resource may be constrained such that processing of the resource must occur at a remote server. In other situations however the resource may be constrained such that only certain aspects have to be processed at a remote server while other aspects can be processed locally at the requesting client device.

Because aspects of a resource may be processed remotely while others are processed at the client it device it may be necessary to merge a user interface associated with the client device processed aspects of the resource with a user interface associated with the server processed aspects of the resource. In certain implementations aspects of the present disclosure may generate and fuse or aggregate this user interface and present the fused or aggregated user interface to the user such that the user is unaware that aspects of the resource are processed locally while others are processed remotely. Alternatively in certain implementations aspects of the present disclosure may present the fused or aggregated user interface to the user with a notification that certain aspects have been processed remotely while other aspects have been processed locally.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the inventions are shown. Wherever possible the same reference numbers are used in the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or similar elements. While certain embodiments of the disclosure may be described modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible. For example substitutions additions subtractions and or modifications may be made to the elements illustrated in the drawings and the methods described herein may be modified by substituting reordering or adding stages to the disclosed methods. Indeed the present invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Accordingly the following detailed description does not limit the disclosure. Instead the proper scope of the disclosure is defined by the appended claims.

The present application is generally directed to electronic device security and more particularly to systems methods apparatuses and computer program products for providing management of restricted resources including restricted applications and restricted content. As used herein a restricted resource may refer to any resource that is constrained by a profile i.e. a collection of criteria which may include credentials configurations and rules which may be designated by an administrator of the client device via a management service. For example a profile may constrain use of input to output from and or functionality of particular resources e.g. restricted application or restricted content to which a particular designation or processing restriction has been given e.g. server only server device etc. .

As noted as used herein restricted resources e.g. restricted applications and or restricted content may refer to resources that are constrained by a rule set also referred to herein as a profile . A rule set may for instance constrain a user s access to restricted resources or particular aspects of restricted resources. For example certain enterprise related resources e.g. documents contact lists spreadsheets emails financial information intellectual property applications etc. associated with an enterprise may be particularly sensitive and warrant increased protection or security. Accordingly an administrator may configure a rule set associated with the restricted resources that specifies that at least one feature or aspect of the resource must be processed outside of the client device e.g. on a remote server or processor . As referred to herein restricted resources may refer to restricted content and or restricted applications which may include sensitive enterprise information. As discussed in one embodiment an administrator may configure a rule set via a device management dashboard provided by a management service.

Example embodiments of such systems methods apparatuses and computer program products may be configured to identify requests to engage a restricted resource and re direct such requests. More particularly requests to engage a resource on client devices may be analyzed to determine whether the resource is restricted i.e. whether a profile associated with the resource indicates whether there are any processing restrictions associated with the resource . In an instance in which it is determined that the request is to access or engage a restricted resource a management agent of the client device may attempt to coordinate with an authorized application capable of performing the request e.g. a remote server .

For example in an instance in which it is determined that the request is to engage a restricted resource that is constrained to server execution only e.g. a profile associated with the resource indicates the resource is designated as server only a client device new request may request access to the resource from a remote server. Alternatively in an instance in which it is determined that the request is to engage a restricted resource in which the processing restriction indicates that certain aspects of the resource can be engaged on the client device while other aspects are constrained to server execution only e.g. a profile associated with the resource indicates the resource is designated as server device a client device may initiate the generation of an aggregate user interface UI configured to present to the user an aggregate UI that combines device side aspects of the resource with server side aspects of the resource. These operations may be useful to constrain particular aspects of particular resources as necessary.

In one embodiment actions associated with a resource may also be restricted. Examples of actions that may be considered restricted actions may include but are not limited to sending email posting messages to social media services and or accessing resources via remote resource services. Within the context of an enterprise restricted actions may include actions that may implicate the enterprise for instance restricted actions may include but are not limited to actions that utilize keywords related to the enterprise contacts of the enterprise servers associated with the enterprise and or resources constituting the intellectual property of the enterprise.

As a practical example within the context of an enterprise an IT Department of an enterprise may utilize a web based administrative portal provided by a management service to designate particular resources as restricted e.g. restricted applications and or restricted content . For instance the IT Department may designate sending an email to an enterprise contact as a restricted action or may designate particular resources e.g. applications and or content as restricted resources e.g. restricted applications and or restricted content . For example the IT Department may designate applications that utilize content that comprises information associated with the enterprise e.g. information that utilizes keywords associated with the enterprise information relating to contacts and or personnel of the enterprise information relating to the enterprise s intellectual property as restricted i.e. the IT Department may designate the resources with a processing restriction . Additionally the IT Department may designate such resources with a processing restriction that indicates the resources are server only in which case they cannot be engaged on a client device or server device in which case aspects of the resource cannot be engaged on a client device.

More specifically the operations described herein may first determine whether a request relates to a restricted resource as designated by an IT Department. If the request does relate to a restricted resource operations described herein may determine a remediation measure. Accordingly as will be appreciated the operations described herein provide a means for ensuring that actions relating to restricted resources e.g. restricted applications and or restricted content which may include sensitive enterprise information are handled safely which may be especially useful in the context of an enterprise.

In another example within the context of an enterprise an IT Department of an enterprise may utilize a web based administrative portal provided by a management service to configure a profile associated with a resource such that the profile includes one or more profile criteria. For example a profile may include profile criteria that must be satisfied for a client device to be able to access a requested resource. In one example the profile may apply a processing restriction to the requested resource if the client device requesting access to the resource fails to satisfy certain profile criteria. In this way the processing restriction relating to a resource may be dynamic as it is based on whether the client device requesting access to the resource satisfies the profile criteria. In an example embodiment status information that describes the resource requesting client device may be evaluated to determine whether the profile criteria are satisfied. So in an example embodiment evaluating profile criteria may be based at least in part on status information describing the client device.

In an example embodiment profile criteria may require a client device requesting access to the resource to enable one or more configurations to utilize one or more credentials and or to satisfy one or more compliance rules. Further in an example embodiment profile criteria may relate to state details of the client device e.g. whether the client device is in a factory default state whether the client device is in a jailbroken state whether the client device is connected to a secure network . Likewise in an example embodiment profile criteria may relate to technological characteristics of the client device e.g. hardware or software features enabled on the client device resources accessible to and or stored by the client device . Additionally in example embodiments profile criteria may relate to contextual characteristics of the client device e.g. geographic location of the client device time of operation of the client device .

Accordingly in an example embodiment the operations described herein may evaluate profile criteria to determine whether a particular resource is subject to a processing restriction. Put differently a profile may specify that a particular resource is subject to a processing restriction in certain circumstances and is not subject to a processing restriction in others. Accordingly to determine whether a resource is subject to a processing restriction as designated by a profile and or profile criteria the operations described herein may first evaluate status information relating to the client device making the request and based on the evaluation determine whether the requested resource is subject to a processing restriction.

Example implementations of the disclosed technology will now be described with reference to the accompanying figures. Elements of the figures are depicted and described in the singular although it will be understood that a plurality of each element may be employed in the arrangements as described herein for ease of understanding the elements of the include designations that the element may be either singular or plural e.g. client device s management server s and the like .

As depicted the IT Department of the enterprise may provide the capability to manage the client device through the network . In certain embodiments management of the client device may include designating particular provisioned data for transmission to the client device . In some embodiments management of the client device may include provisioning i.e. transmitting particular provisioned data to the client device . In any case depending on the capabilities of a particular client device e.g. limitations of the operating system of the particular client device the client device may be managed by pushing certain provisioned data to the client device or by instructing the client device to pull certain provisioned data from the enterprise as described herein.

In some embodiments an IT Department may manage the client device over the air via the network . The network may be and or provide access to a wired and or wireless network such as a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless wide area network WWAN an Ethernet network or a fiber optic network. The network may further be and or provide access to the Internet and or an intranet extranet microwave network satellite communications network cellular network e.g. LTE LTE A GSM CDMA and or the like infrared communication network global area network and or combinations thereof. In any case the IT Department and the client device may connect with the network and thereby be connected to one another via wired means e.g. Ethernet USB and or the like or via wireless means e.g. Wi Fi BLUETOOTH NFC and or the like .

In certain embodiments the management server may be any type of network accessible electronic device or system that includes a service such as the depicted management service and a storage medium such as the depicted management database . In some embodiments the management server may comprise a cloud server based solution a physical server based solution and or combinations thereof configured to provide device content application network connection and or expense management capability. For purposes of convenience the management server is referred to herein in the singular although it will be understood that a plurality of management servers may be employed in the arrangements as described herein for instance multiple management servers may operate on the same server computer.

In certain embodiments the management service may be an application installed on the management server . In some embodiments the management service may be configured to access data stored within the management database during performance of its operations. The management service may be operable to provide management capabilities with respect to the client device . For example in one embodiment the management service may include at least one of AirWatch VMware Horizon Apple OSX Server or Google Mobile Management .

In certain embodiments the management service may be configured to communicate with at least one client device and or the gateway service the app service and or the content service over the network to provide management capabilities. For instance the IT Department of the enterprise may manage the client device via the management service by performing at least one management operation with respect to the client device . For instance the management service may be configured to transmit at least one procedure call to the client device as described herein. Additionally for example the management service may be configured to provision at least one resource to the client device as described herein.

While the management service is described as operable to manage the client device i.e. a single client device with respect to it is to be understood that the management service may be operable to manage a plurality of client devices . In one embodiment the management service may manage a group of client devices by performing management operations with respect to the group of client devices . For instance the management service may store designations of at least one management group i.e. group of client devices in the management database of the management server which may be utilized by the management service in an instance in which a management operation is to be performed by the management service . In one embodiment the management group may be a static management group i.e. a location group or user group such that client devices belonging to the management group are substantially fixed that is the management group may designate at least one client device or user whose respective client device will generally remain a member of the management group irrespective of any context or circumstances until an authorized administrator changes the group. In another embodiment the management group may be a dynamic management group i.e. a smart group such that client devices belonging to the management group are based at least in part on at least one group inclusion criteria that is the management group may designate at least one group inclusion criteria that is evaluated to determine which client devices or users to include in the management group. For instance the dynamic management group may determine its members in response to a threshold condition e.g. an elapsed durational threshold or may determine its members in an instance in which the dynamic management group is to be utilized i.e. on demand . In any case the management service may provide at least one dashboard through which an authorized user i.e. an administrator may designate at least one management group. In certain embodiments the management service may be configured to communicate with an instance generator and an instance user interface UI generator . For example upon determining a client device user is attempting to engage a resource with a processing restriction designating the resource as server only the management service may receive a request to access the resource . According to one embodiment an instance generator may be configured to generate an instance of the requested server only resource . An instance UI generator may then generate an instance of the UI associated with the server only resource which may be transmitted to the client device such that the client device user can interact with the server only resource .

In one embodiment a profile may designate a resource as device server in which case certain aspects of the resource can be engaged directly on the client device while other aspects of the resource must be executed at a remote server e.g. management server . In such a scenario the management service may receive a request to access the server side aspects of the resource i.e. the aspects of the resource that must be executed at a remote server . For example the management service may receive a request to access aspects of the resource that relate to an enterprise s financial information client lists sales strategies or confidential information that have been designated as server side. In response an instance generator may be configured to generate an instance of the requested resource or an instance of the server side aspects of the resource and an instance UI generator may generate an instance of a UI for interacting with the server side aspects of the restricted resource . As will be understood and appreciated generating an instance of a resource and an instance of a UI for engaging with a restricted resource or certain aspects of a restricted resource allows an IT Department to have control over what resources actually reside on a client device . As will be further understood and appreciated generating instance UIs for interacting with restricted resources provides an optimization benefit to the client device . In particular client device processing power and battery power can be maximized. Further client device data usage flexibility can be maintained as an IT Department can optimize the usage of system elements i.e. client device and management server by balancing the loads of the system elements.

In certain embodiments the management database may store a variety of management data that may be provisioned to the client device i.e. provisioned data which may include a management record a procedure call and or a resource . Each of these possible components of the management database will now be described in further detail.

In certain embodiments a management record may be a file that is specific to i.e. associated with the client device that is a particular management record may include data relevant to a particular client device such that the particular management record is not applicable to other client devices . In some embodiments the management record may specify at least one management group to which the client device associated with the management record belongs. For instance the management record may specify that the client device is a member of a Global static management group a United States static management group and a Smartphone static management group.

In certain embodiments the management record may include a plurality of information describing the management of the client device by for example the management server . In one embodiment the management record may include a history of management operations taken by the management service with respect to the client device . For instance the management record may specify when the client device was initially enrolled with the management service when the client device has checked in with the management service when particular procedure calls resources and or profiles were provisioned to the client device by the management service and or when the client device was determined to be compliant and or non compliant with any profiles and profile criteria associated with the client device .

Additionally in one embodiment the management record may specify at least one resource that has been designated for provisioning to the client device and or that has been designated as required for the client device . For example the management record may specify apps or content that an administrator of the client device has designated as required for the client device . Additionally the management record may specify profiles that an administrator of the client device has designated as required for the client device . Consequently the management record may provide a basis for identifying any profiles to which the client device must adhere for the client device to be considered a compliant client device . More specifically for example the management record may specify profile criteria to which the client device must adhere as designated by a profile . For example in one implementation the management record may specify profile criteria that require that at least one credential must be present on the client device at least one configuration must be enabled on the client device and or at least one compliance rule must be satisfied by the client device for the client device to be considered compliant as designated by a profile .

In certain embodiments the management record may include a plurality of status information depicted in which may describe the state of the client device itself as described herein. For instance the management record may specify that the client device is currently located in Atlanta Ga. e.g. based on its GPS coordinates that the client device is in a jailbroken state i.e. its operating system depicted in has been altered and that the client device is storing certain resources that were provisioned to the client device by the management service .

In some embodiments the management service may update the management record on an ongoing basis. In one embodiment the management service may update the management record upon the performance of management operations with respect to the client device such that the management record includes details regarding the management operations. For instance the management service may update the management record upon provisioning a particular procedure call to the client device such that the management record includes specifics regarding the procedure call e.g. operations called by the procedure call date and time when the procedure call was enforced upon the client device at least one condition that triggered the enforcement of the procedure call e.g. the client device did not satisfy a particular compliance rule etc. In one embodiment the management service may update the management record upon provisioning a particular resource and or profile to the client device such that the management record includes specifics regarding the resource e.g. type of resource or profile e.g. profile criteria designated by the profile date and time when the resource and or profile was provisioned to the client device an IT Department administrator that designated the resource and or profile for provisioning to the client device and or the like. Furthermore in one embodiment the management service may update the management record upon receiving an indication e.g. from the client device that the status of the client device has changed i.e. the management service may update the status information of the management record to reflect the current state of the client device .

As described herein the management database may also store at least one procedure call . In certain embodiments the procedure call may be configured to communicate with an application programming interface API of the client device such that the client device recognizes the procedure call as a valid and authorized instruction to carry out certain procedures on the client device e.g. procedures specific to the procedure call whose respective programming code may be stored in a platform library depicted in of the client device . In some embodiments the procedure call may be enforced upon the client device by the management service . More specifically the management service may transmit the procedure call to the client device which may be enforced on the client device via the procedure call s interaction with the platform library of the client device e.g. through an API as described herein.

In certain embodiments the procedure call may instruct the client device to carry out at least one operation on the client device . In one embodiment the procedure call may instruct the client device to erase certain data from the client device . For instance the procedure call may instruct the client device to erase a portion of the data stored by the client device e.g. erase particular data specified by the procedure call erase all data associated with the enterprise erase all data associated with a particular user of the client device erase all data stored on external media cards . Alternatively for example the procedure call may instruct the client device to erase all data stored by the client device or return the client device to a factory default state i.e. a device wipe .

In one embodiment the procedure call may instruct the client device to encrypt certain data stored by the client device . For example the procedure call may instruct the client device to encrypt a portion of the data stored by the client device such as data specific to the enterprise or data personal to a user of the client device alternatively for instance the procedure call may instruct the client device to encrypt all data stored by the client device . Additionally the procedure call may instruct the client device to keep certain data stored by the client device encrypted until a particular condition is satisfied. For instance the procedure call may instruct the client device to keep the data stored on the client device encrypted until an authorized password is provided.

In one embodiment the procedure call may instruct the client device to lock i.e. prevent access to at least one function of the client device . For instance the procedure call may instruct the client device to lock a display of the client device . Additionally the procedure call may instruct the client device to maintain the functionality in a locked state until a certain condition is satisfied. For instance the procedure call may instruct the client device to lock the display of the client device until an authorized password is provided.

In one embodiment the procedure call may instruct the client device to clear a current passcode configuration of the client device . For example the procedure call may instruct the operating system of the client device to remove the current passcode configuration of the client device such that the client device is no longer subject to the current passcode configuration . It is to be understood that this may be useful when a user forgets her passcode for the client device and is therefore locked out of her client device . Additionally in one embodiment the procedure call may instruct the client device to require that a user of the client device supply a new passcode for the client device which may be utilized by the client device in creating a new passcode configuration for the client device that may be enforced upon the client device . It is to be understood that this may be useful when the passcode of the client device needs to be reset such as upon the expiration of a durational limitation of the passcode.

In one embodiment the procedure call may instruct the client device to reboot the client device . For instance the procedure call may instruct the operating system of the client device to restart its operations after shutting down its operations. In one embodiment the procedure call may instruct particular apps and or services of the client device to reboot. For example the procedure call may instruct the operating system to kill the operations i.e. force shut down of apps managed by the enterprise and instruct the operating system to launch the apps managed by the enterprise shortly thereafter.

In some embodiments the procedure call may instruct the client device to check in with the management service . For instance the client device may check in with the management service by communicating with the management service e.g. transmitting data to and or receiving data from the management service . More specifically the procedure call may instruct the client device to provide particular status information to the management service upon checking in with the management service i.e. the procedure call may query the client device for particular information . For example the procedure call may request that the client device transmit at least a portion of the status information describing the client device depicted in to the management service e.g. the location and or GPS coordinates of the client device the local time where the client device is currently located one or more apps installed on the client device one or more networks to which the client device is connected and one or more security features enabled on the client device .

In some embodiments the procedure call may instruct the client device to initiate a synchronization of data with at least one remote service. For instance the client device may be instructed to synchronize data with the management service such that the management service has local access to at least a portion of the data stored by the client device e.g. a backup of the client device . Additionally for example the client device may be instructed to synchronize data with the management service such that the client device has local access to at least a portion of the data stored by the management service e.g. a local downloaded copy of resources stored by the management service .

In some embodiments the procedure call may instruct the client device to enable a remote control function of the client device . For example the procedure call may provide an administrator with sufficient privileges i.e. with respect to the client device to remotely control the client device i.e. as if they were physically holding and using the client device which may be facilitated via a remote control dashboard provided by the management service. In some embodiments the remote control function of the client device may enable a remote screen capture function i.e. capability to capture the current view of the user interface of the client device which may include saving a screen shot printing the screen shot emailing the screen shot and transmitting the screen shot to the management service e.g. for presentation to an administrator of the client device via a remote screen capture dashboard provided by the management service . In one embodiment the remote control function of the client device may enable a screen sharing function of the client device which may provide the ability to remotely view the operations of the client device i.e. an administrator may view a stream of the user interface of the client device as if she were physically holding and operating the client device which may be particularly useful for diagnosis of any technical issues the client device may be experiencing .

In some embodiments the procedure call may instruct the client device to enable a file manager function of the client device . For instance the file manager function of the client device may provide the capability to remotely manage the file system of the client device i.e. as if the client device were physically in hand . In one embodiment the file manager function of the client device may relay information to the management service such that a file manager dashboard provided by the management service displays the file system of the client device to an administrator via which the administrator may enable disable and or modify the file system of the client device . In one embodiment the file manager function of the client device may include at least one of the following capabilities i.e. with respect to the client device access the file system access the registry manager delete files copy files e.g. within the client device via email via SMS via FTP move files create folders copy folders move folders delete folders rename files rename folders and install files i.e. download . It is to be understood that the term file may be used to describe resources e.g. apps content and profiles and thus the file manager function may refer to management of resources and or profiles on the client device .

In some embodiments the procedure call may instruct the client device to present a notification to the user of the client device . For instance the client device may present a notification to the user of the client device that specifies that the client device is not in a state of compliance with a particular compliance rule i.e. such that the user may make alterations to the client device to place the client device in a state of compliance with the compliance rule . The client device may also present a notification that specifies that if the client device is not placed in a state of compliance with the particular compliance rule e.g. by enabling disabling and or modifying the client device before a threshold duration expires that a particular remedial action may be taken on the client device e.g. erasing data from the client device preventing the client device from accessing resources locking particular functionality of the client device .

Additionally as described herein the management database may further store at least one resource . In certain embodiments resources may include at least one app and a plurality of content . Further the management database may store at least one profile . Additionally the profile may include profile criteria which may comprise for instance at least one credential at least one configuration and or at least one compliance rule .

In certain embodiments the resources may further include at least one virtual image that includes the contents and the structure of a disk volume and or an entire memory device which may include at least one app and a plurality of content as well as at least one profile including profile criteria such as at least one credential at least one configuration and at least one compliance rule . In the context of software virtualization the virtual image may be initialized by client devices e.g. with the assistance of a hypervisor to provide access to at least one additional computing environments on the client device i.e. an environment in addition to the native computing environment provided by operating system of the client device as depicted in . For instance a client device natively running the Google Android operating system may additionally run an instance of the Apple iOS operating system via a virtual image of the Apple iOS operating system i.e. when mounted via a hypervisor to provide an Apple iOS virtual machine . In the context of an enterprise virtual images may be used to segregate a work persona from a personal persona. In particular a virtual image configured with to include a work persona may be kept containerized i.e. segregated from a personal persona i.e. the native operating system of the client devices via a hypervisor which may be instructed by the virtual image to prevent the operating system of the client devices from accessing data within the virtual image i.e. the work persona data .

In some embodiments apps may include application software that causes particular client devices to perform operations with the assistance of a processor and a memory of a client device as depicted in . For example apps may include mobile applications that are specifically designed for execution by handheld client devices e.g. smartphones and tablets . Additionally apps may include for instance standard applications that are specifically designed for execution by non handheld client devices e.g. laptop and desktop computers . In any case apps may include standalone apps i.e. apps that are not communicatively coupled to at least one management agent and or may include apps that are communicatively coupled to at least one management agent e.g. apps whose operations may be controlled and or modified by the management agent . Additionally apps may include for instance a virtualization client that may provide access to at least one virtual machine that may be either locally and or remotely executed.

In some embodiments content may include any electronic files and the information contained therein that provide intellectual value for a user. In the context of an enterprise content may include document files e.g. Microsoft Word Apple Pages and or Adobe PDF files spreadsheet files e.g. Microsoft Excel and or Apple Numbers files presentation files e.g. Microsoft PowerPoint Apple Keynote and or QuickTime files database files e.g. Microsoft Access and or SQL files and or other electronic files that may assist and or enable an employee of the enterprise to perform the duties of her employment. In general content may include at least one of the following electronic file types data audio video two dimensional images three dimensional images raster images vector images page layouts text word processor files spreadsheets presentations graphics databases executable files CAD files web files plug ins fonts system files settings encoded files compressed files disk images source code and or backup files.

In certain embodiments the at least one profile may include any electronic files that modify e.g. configure constrain restrict add to enhance the manner in which particular client devices may be operated. In some embodiments the profile may be configured as a resource but the profile may likewise be configured independently as shown in . In one embodiment the profile may be associated with particular functions of the client device such that the profile can modify the functions of the client device . For instance a password protection function of the client device may be modified by a password protection profile a screen shot function of the client device may be modified by a screen shot profile etc. Moreover in some embodiments the profile may be associated with particular resources that may be provisioned to the client device to modify the use of and or access to the resources . In particular the profile may be associated with particular apps that may be executed on the client device to modify the execution of the particular apps on the client device . For example a native email app e.g. Apple Mail may be modified by a native email app profile a containerized email app e.g. AirWatch Inbox may be modified by a containerized email app profile etc. Similarly the profile may be associated with particular content to modify the use of and or access to the content . For instance a document may be modified by a document content profile a video may be modified by a video content profile etc.

In certain embodiments the profile may specify certain processing restrictions or designations that are to be applied to particular resources e.g. apps or content . For example an IT Department of an enterprise may determine that certain resources should be restricted i.e. the manner in which a user engages aspects of the resource s functionalities should be constrained . Accordingly in one embodiment the IT Department may configure profiles associated with those resources to designate the resources as restricted resources e.g. restricted apps and or restricted content . In one embodiment the IT Department may configure a profile that designates a resource as a server only resource in which case execution of the resource must occur at a remote server e.g. management server instead of at the client device . In alternate embodiments the IT Department may configure a profile that designates a resource as a device server resource. In such an instance according to one embodiment various aspects of the resource can be executed at the client device while other aspects are to be executed at the remote server.

In certain embodiments an IT Department may configure a profile associated with a resource such that the profile includes one or more profile criteria that must be satisfied for a client device to be able to access the resource or aspects of the resource . Put differently a profile may apply a processing restriction to a resource if the client device requesting access to the resource does not satisfy certain profile criteria . In an example embodiment status information that describes the client device may be evaluated to determine whether profile criteria are satisfied. Accordingly evaluating a profile criterion to determine a processing restriction of a resource may involve evaluating status information describing the client device requesting access to the resource which may be included in a management record .

As described status information describing the client device may indicate whether certain profile criteria are satisfied. In an example embodiment a profile criterion may require a client device requesting access to a resource to enable certain configurations . Likewise a profile criterion may require a client device requesting access to a resource to utilize certain credentials and or satisfy certain compliance rules . As will be understood profile criteria may impose more than one requirement on a client device e.g. profile criteria may require the client device to utilize certain credentials and have certain configurations enabled . Accordingly evaluating profile criteria may be based at least in part on status information describing the client device which may indicate whether for example the client device is utilizing the required credentials has the required configurations enabled and or satisfies certain compliance rules . Accordingly in one embodiment if it is determined based on evaluation of the status information that the profile criteria are not satisfied the profile may apply a processing restriction to the requested resource .

In certain embodiments profile criteria may relate to the state of a client device requesting access to a resource and details relating to the state of the client device i.e. state details may be reflected in the status information describing the client device which may be included in a management record . In an example embodiment state details may include whether the client device is in a factory default state whether the client device is in a jailbroken state and or whether the client device is connected to a secure network. Additionally in certain embodiments profile criteria may relate to technological characteristics of a client device requesting access to a resource and details relating to the technological characteristics of the client device may be reflected in the status information describing the client device . In example embodiments technological characteristics may include hardware or software features enabled on the client device and or resources accessible to and or stored by the client device . Further in certain embodiments profile criteria may relate to contextual characteristics of a client device requesting access to a resource . Status information describing the client device may reflect contextual characteristics of the client device which may include the geographic location of the client device and or time of operation of the client device .

In some embodiments the profile may be configured to be executable by particular operating systems . That is in some instances the profile may need to be configured and or coded such that it may be interpreted by the operating system of the client device . Accordingly for instance a management service may store multiple versions of the profile e.g. an Apple iOS version a Google Android version a Windows Phone version and or the like such that a proper variation of the profile may be provisioned to a given client device based on the operating system of such client device . Additionally in some embodiments one or more operating system specific versions of the profile may be provisioned to a given client device such that a personal persona of the client device i.e. a native operating system and a work persona of the client device i.e. a virtualized operating system may be modified by the profile .

In some embodiments the profile may include standard text and or may include files encoded according to a particular feature of particular client devices i.e. via a proprietary encoding schema . In particular standard text may include files written and or encoded in ASCII or another standard encoding schema that may be interpreted and enforced by many if not all features of the client device . Alternatively profiles encoded via a proprietary encoding schema associated with a particular feature of the client device may include files encoded with an encryption schema or encoded with a file extension type that is specific to the particular feature of the client device i.e. such that only the particular feature of the client device can interpret and enforce the profile .

In any case a profile may include at least one credential at least one configuration and or at least one compliance rule that may modify at least one feature of the client device i.e. functions of the client device and or resources accessible to such functions of the client device . As described herein the profile and profile criteria which may include any credentials configurations and or compliance rules included therein may be designated by an administrator of the client device . In some embodiments the profile may be designated through an administrative console dashboard provided by the management service .

In certain embodiments the at least one credential may include authorization credentials which may facilitate the client device in accessing resources e.g. apps content profiles . In some embodiments the credential may include at least one of the following client device identifier s e.g. name s UDID s phone number s IMEI MEID number s serial number s IMSI number s model s version s manufacturer s Wi Fi address es Wi Fi MAC current MCC current MNC SIM card number s SIM carrier network user identifier s e.g. username s user password s user personal identification number s certificate s token s Smartcard s drivers license number s and social security number s .

In certain embodiments the at least one configuration may include configuration files which may specify settings for at least one function of the client device . In some embodiments the configuration may be interpreted and enforced on a particular feature of the client device at startup and or during run time of the feature of the client device . For instance a configuration associated with apps i.e. generally may be interpreted and enforced upon an execution of any app and may be interpreted and enforced intermittently upon a time interval during execution of any app .

In some embodiments the configuration may specify settings for the client device that enable and or disable particular features of the client device . For instance at least one of the following hardware features of the client device may be enabled and or disabled via a configuration microphone camera screen capture videoconferencing Bluetooth Bluetooth data transfer Bluetooth discoverable mode Bluetooth pairing desktop computer connectivity via Bluetooth outgoing phone calls via Bluetooth tethering e.g. Bluetooth Wi Fi USB USB port s USB debugging USB media player USB synchronization near field communication NFC .

Additionally for example at least one of the following software features of the client device may be enabled and or disabled via the configuration firewall certificates e.g. generally installation of Wi Fi e.g. generally auto join Wi Fi networks blacklist particular Wi Fi networks manual addition of Wi Fi profiles manual modifications to Wi Fi profiles VPN i.e. Virtual Private Network encryption e.g. device level encryption app level file container encryption multiple persona modes e.g. personal persona enterprise persona auto fill cookies JavaScript pop ups native Internet browser app native mail client app fraud warnings cloud backup e.g. generally for particular apps administration e.g. of client device of user s sharing amongst particular apps voice telephone usage e.g. generally over cellular networks over VoIP by particular apps background usage while roaming limitations during a specified time duration data usage e.g. generally over cellular networks over Wi Fi networks by particular apps background usage while roaming limitations during a specified time duration factory reset spoofed location data over the air updates e.g. operating system firmware personal assistant e.g. generally while client device is locked media card access e.g. SD card user initiated settings changes text and or multi media messaging e.g. SMS iMessage content service access e.g. iTunes YouTube Game Center iBookstore Windows File Share voice initiated phone call dialing e.g. generally while client device is locked incoming phone call alerts e.g. audible ringer vibration multiplayer gaming e.g. generally adding contacts and diagnostic data e.g. collection of transmission to manufacture s .

In some embodiments the configuration may specify settings for the client device that modify e.g. install uninstall update adjust particular features of the client device . For instance at least one of the following features of the client device may be modified by the configuration APN settings e.g. for GPRS carrier of client device Wi Fi e.g. personal WEP personal WPA WPA2 personal enterprise WEP enterprise WPA WPA2 minimum Wi Fi certificate security level minimum Wi Fi security level Wi Fi proxy VPN e.g. L2TP PPTP IPSec Cisco Juniper F5 SSL Aruba SonicWALL Mobile Connect Websence custom VPN certificates e.g. mobile email Microsoft Exchange ActiveSync EAS Wi Fi VPN SSL root access encryption bit length e.g. DES AES cellular calling settings screen settings display settings permissible content ratings e.g. videos music Bluetooth configuration lock screen wallpaper home screen wallpaper and firewall e.g. general settings IP reroute redirect exceptions .

In some embodiments the configuration may specify settings for the client device that enable disable and or modify password features of the client device . For example at least one of the following password features of the client device may be enabled disabled and or modified by the configuration device level password requirement passcode timeout i.e. lock functions of client device after expiration of configured duration password length requirement simple password alphanumeric password requirement minimum device password complex characters maximum failed password attempts maximum inactivity time lock settings password history e.g. maintenance of prevention of using previous passwords minimum changed characters for new passwords password expiration invalid password grace period purchase related password requirements single sign on i.e. single password for more than one function of the client device .

In some embodiments the configuration may specify settings for the client device that enable disable and or modify features of a personal information management PIM app e.g. EAS settings email settings calendar settings contact settings . For instance at least one of the following PIM features of the client device may be enabled disabled and or modified by the configuration accounts e.g. at least one EAS account incoming email outgoing email email signature sync e.g. EAS sync interval sync schedule peak sync schedule off peak SmartCard authentication at least one EAS account consumer email HTML email single sign on authentication SSL enable disable TLS S MIME settings require encrypted S MIME messages allow IRM backing up data and or settings changing signature copy paste between email accounts copy paste data to phonebook export to 3party widgets apps save attachments to media card e.g. SD card speech notifications widgets hide data from widget when client device is locked hide data on notification bar IRM settings prevent changing data or settings require encryption require media card encryption attachments require attachments stripped from email messages and transmitted to a containerized content access app e.g. AirWatch Secure Content Locker HTML email plain text email maximum attachment size maximum calendar age maximum email message age maximum email message truncation size require manual mail syncing when roaming permit simple password minimum password length require password to access email app POP IMAP settings date time CardDav integration for contacts multiple contact address books CalDav integration for calendar subscriptions to ICS files for calendars and multiple calendars.

In some embodiments the configuration may specify settings for the client device that enable disable and or modify features of an Internet browsing app . For instance at least one of the following browser features of the client device may be enabled disabled and or modified by the configuration browser security restrictions native browser use of 3party browser browser preference restrictions whitelist e.g. list of authorized websites blacklist e.g. list of unauthorized websites kiosk mode i.e. cannot navigate away from particular websites website shortcuts in browser i.e. web clips website shortcuts in home screen web application creation and bookmarks.

In some embodiments the configuration may specify settings for the client device that enable disable and or modify features of a managed app e.g. apps with management agents application wrappers or software development kits . For instance at least one of the following managed app features may be enabled disabled and or modified by the configuration data access e.g. cellular access Wi Fi access data in transit encryption data sharing e.g. generally contact whitelist contact blacklist transmission protocol data tunneling to remote services e.g. via F5 via a proxy server that only allows access to data in instances in which the client device is in a state of compliance with at least one compliance rule certificates e.g. certificate based authentication provisioning of certificates to apps data at rest encryption Data Loss Prevention e.g. disable Bluetooth disable camera disable copy paste block access if compromised e.g. jailbroken root or otherwise modified operating system depicted in of the client device integrated authentication e.g. reuse of credentials from enrollment into management service single sign on across apps installation of apps e.g. generally non market apps market apps user initiated remotely initiated push to client device pull to client device over the air updates for apps uninstallation of apps e.g. generally user initiated remotely initiated silent modifications to apps e.g. installation updates uninstallation whitelist e.g. authorized apps required apps blacklist e.g. unauthorized apps prohibited apps version management e.g. authorized app versions unauthorized app versions history i.e. usage of apps usage of particular content via apps crash logs type of information captured by logs required check in interval i.e. provide status of client device to management service provide history of app usage to management service roaming printing e.g. generally particular printers require that client device is enrolled with management service and custom app branding e.g. icons logos wallpaper .

In some embodiments the configuration may specify settings for the client device that enable disable and or modify features of an app configured to containerize and provide secure access to content e.g. AirWatch Secure Content Locker . For instance at least one of the following content features may be enabled disabled and or modified by the configuration download e.g. through cellular network through Wi Fi network encryption of data during transit to client device push to client device pull to client device accessibility e.g. dates time geo location of client device expiration e.g. dates times geo location of client device online revocation of content offline revocation of content online access i.e. access while the client device is in communication with the management service offline access i.e. access while the client device is not in communication with the management service content categories content download queue with download prioritization and ordering notify user s of content availability e.g. new content updated content show content with available updates external repository access e.g. generally Microsoft SharePoint check in check out to repository encryption of data at rest e.g. DES AES password requirement e.g. generally particular content token based authentication certificate based authentication Smartcard based authentication copy content paste content sharing content e.g. generally via email via SMS MMS printing e.g. generally particular content history of content access e.g. downloads installations usage deletions display contextual information i.e. content metadata search available content browse available content annotations e.g. generally file types that may be annotated add annotations remove annotations sharing of annotated content supported file types e.g. .DOC .XLS .PPT .PDF .MP4 .MOV .MP3 .AAC .ALAC .PNG .JPG search within content table of contents within content hyperlinks within content and view pages of content as thumbnails.

In certain embodiments the at least one compliance rule may specify a policy to which particular apps and or content must adhere which may be embodied within a compliance rule file. In some embodiments the management service may provide a compliance rule management dashboard through which an administrator may designate the policies that should be effectuated by a given compliance rule . In some embodiments the compliance rule may include a pairing of at least one triggering condition and at least one remedial action whose relationship is a cause and effect relationship such that upon the occurrence of a triggering condition a respective remedial action may be taken that is the triggering condition is the cause and the remedial action is the effect of such cause.

In some embodiments the compliance rule may be enforced upon at least one feature of the client device and or at least one resource accessible to the client device at startup and or during run time of the feature of the client device or access to the resource . For instance a compliance rule associated with particular content e.g. a PDF document may be interpreted and enforced upon a request to access and or otherwise use the content e.g. via a containerized content access app and may be interpreted and enforced intermittently upon a time interval during access to and or other usage of the content .

As described herein the compliance rule may include a triggering condition. In some embodiments a triggering condition may include at least one of a request to perform at least one particular feature of the client device a performance e.g. partial complete of a particular feature of the client device and or a state of the client device . More specifically the state of the client device may include a plurality of characteristics describing the client device such as at least one hardware feature enabled on the client device at least one software feature enabled on the client device at least one setting applied to the client device at least one resource accessible to and or stored by the client device at least one geographic location of operation of the client device and or at least one time of operation of the client device . Additionally the state of the client devices may include a finite state that describes particular client devices at a particular moment in time or a comprehensive state that describes particular client devices over a particular period of time. Consequently a triggering condition may be defined e.g. by an administrator via the management service as any undesirable state for the client device to be in which may include a plurality of criteria that may be evaluated over any configurable period of time.

Also as described herein the compliance rule may include a remedial action that may be paired with a triggering action. In certain embodiments the remedial action may include at least one action that may be taken with respect to the client devices which may be designated by an administrator of the client devices i.e. as a remedy to the triggering condition . In some embodiments the remedial action may include the transmission to and or enforcement of at least one procedure call at the client device . In some embodiments the remedial action may include a transmission of information e.g. at least one notification regarding the triggering condition being present on the client device . For instance the notification may be transmitted to a user of the client device e.g. as a warning that may specify that a particular triggering condition is currently present on the client device and that further remedial actions may be taken with respect to the client device if the triggering condition remains present on the client devices after a particular threshold duration has expired i.e. after a grace period for incompliance has expired . Additionally the notification may be transmitted to an administrator of the client device that specifies that a particular triggering condition is present on the client device . Furthermore the notification may be transmitted to a management service that specifies that a particular triggering condition is present on the client device which may be used by the management service to update the management records associated with the client device to reflect the occurrence of the triggering condition on the client device .

Returning to the management service the management service may provide management capabilities with respect to the client device and the above described data stored by the management database . In some embodiments the management service may provide a user interface via which a user may provide management inputs to the management service that may instruct the management service to perform certain management operations with respect to the client device . The user interface may for instance provide a plurality of management dashboards that may assist in receiving management inputs from a user. For instance the user interface and included management dashboards may provide the capability to initiate certain management operations with respect to the client device e.g. a determination of whether the client device is compliant with at least one profile a designation of at least one particular procedure call for provision to and enforcement upon the client device a designation of at least one resource for provisioning to the client device . 

In some embodiments the management service may provide an administrative portal through which a user with administrative privileges i.e. an administrator may initiate management operations with respect to the client device . In another embodiment the management service may provide an end user portal sometimes referred to as a self service portal through which a user of the client device may initiate management operations with respect to the client device . In some embodiments the end user portal may provide only a subset of the management operations provided by administrative portal that is administrators of the management service may be privileged to initiate management operations with respect to the client device that users of the client device are not privileged to initiate.

In certain embodiments the management service may be configured to determine whether the client device is compliant with at least one profile and any included credentials configurations and or compliance rules . In one embodiment the management service may query at least one management record associated with the client device to identify at least one profile that is associated with the client device such that the management service may determine whether the client device is compliant. In other embodiments the management service may receive any profiles associated with the client device from the client device .

Once the management service has identified the profiles associated with the client device the management service may determine whether the client device is compliant with such profiles based at least in part on status information describing the client device . In some embodiments the management service may transmit a check in procedure call to the client device to instruct the client device to transmit at least a portion of the status information describing the client device depicted in to the management service which may provide a basis for determining whether the client device is compliant with any profiles associated with the client device . Additionally the management service may query the management record of the client device to determine whether the management record specifies status information describing the client device .

Having obtained status information describing the client device the management service may proceed to determine whether the client device is compliant with the profiles associated with the client device . For instance the management service may use the status information describing the client device to determine whether the credentials of the profiles are present on the client device . Additionally the management service may use the status information describing the client device to determine whether the configurations of the profiles are enabled on the client device . Furthermore the management service may use the status information describing the client device to determine whether the client device violates any compliance rules of profiles . If the management service determines that the client device complies with the profiles associated with the client device the management service may report the compliant status as an output of the management operation e.g. as a message to the individual who initiated the management operation . On the other hand if the management service determines that the client device does not comply with the profiles associated with the client device the management service may report the non compliant status as an output of the management operation e.g. as a message and may further perform a secondary management operation to rectify the non compliant status of the client device e.g. at least one remedial action specified by the compliance rules .

In certain embodiments the management service may provision at least one procedure call and or at least one resource to the client device which have been designated for provisioning to the client device . In some embodiments the management service may provision procedure calls and or resources to the client device by transmitting or pushing them to the client device . This embodiment for provisioning may not however be viable for provisioning the client device if the client device is utilizing an operating system that prohibits push methods of provisioning e.g. a client device utilizing the Apple iOS operating system . Consequently in some embodiments the management service may provision the client device by requesting that the client device download i.e. pull the procedure calls and or resources from the management service . More specifically upon a request to provision the client device the management service may place a download command associated with the procedure calls and or resources in a command queue associated with the client device may transmit a notification requesting that the client device check in with the management service and may transmit the procedure calls and or resources to the client device upon the client device s check in with the management service .

In certain embodiments the management service may be configured to place at least one resource in the management database for storage which may be later provisioned to the client device . In some embodiments users of the management service may upload resources for storage by the management service in the management store through the user interface e.g. through a resource upload dashboard . Additionally the management service may establish a communication channel with at least one remote resource service such as an app service and or a content service from which the management service may receive particular resources for storage in the management database .

In certain embodiments the app service or content service may store and distribute apps and or content respectively. In some embodiments the app service or content service may proxy apps or content respectively to the client device from the management server . For instance the app service or content service may receive apps or content respectively from the management server and may relay i.e. distribute the received apps or content to the client device . In some embodiments such as when the app service or content service act as a proxy the management service may distribute at least one procedure call to the app service or content service which may instruct the app service or content service to perform certain functionality. For instance the management service may transmit a Microsoft PowerShell procedure call to the app service or content service to instruct the app service or content service to only proxy apps or content respectively to the client device while the client device is in a state of compliance with at least one compliance rule .

As described herein in certain embodiments at least one notification service at least one gateway service at least one app service and at least one content service may assist the management server in providing management capabilities with respect to the client device . Each of these additional components of the management system will now be described in further detail.

In certain embodiments limitations of the client device may require that the management service transmit notifications to the client device through at least one notification service e.g. requests to check in with the management service . In particular the management service may be required to transmit notifications to the client device via the notification service in an instance in which an operating system of the client device is configured to only accept notifications from the notification service e.g. client devices running Apple iOS may only receive notifications through a notification service provided by Apple . Accordingly in one embodiment the management service may be configured to transmit notifications to the client device by transmitting the notifications to the notification service and instructing the notification service to relay such notifications to the client device on its behalf and the notification service may be configured to receive notifications from the management service and transmit such notifications to the client device on behalf of the management service in response to receiving instructions from the management service specifying that the notification service should relay the notifications to the client device .

In an instance in which the client device receives a notification to check in with the management service the client device may request to establish a communication channel with the management service . In certain embodiments the client device may be permitted to communicate directly with the management service . However in some embodiments the client device may be required to communicate with the management service via at least one gateway service e.g. when the client device has access to a server address and or server credentials for the gateway service but does not have access to a server address and or server credentials for the management service .

In certain embodiments the gateway service may be configured to determine whether the client device is authorized to communicate with the management service . For instance the client device may only be authorized to communicate with the management service when the client device is in compliance with the profiles associated with the client device . The gateway service may perform its determination of whether the client device is compliant with profiles in a similar manner to the methods described above with respect to management service .

In an instance in which the gateway service determines that the client device is authorized to communicate with the management service the gateway service may relay the client device s communications to the management service on behalf of the client device . On the other hand in an instance in which the gateway service determines that the client device is not authorized to communicate with the management service the gateway service may prevent the client device s communications from being transmitted to the management service . Additionally the gateway service may be further configured to perform at least one remedial action with respect to the client device as described herein. While the gateway service is described with respect to authorizing communication between the client device and the management service the gateway service may also be configured to determine whether the client device is authorized to communicate with other services such as the app service and or content service and may permit the client device to communicate and or download resources from such services in an instance in which it is determined that the client device is authorized to communicate with such services e.g. per the compliance rules .

In an instance in which the client device establishes a communication channel with the management service whether directly or through the gateway service the client device may check in with the management service and may receive at least one procedure call and or at least one resource from a command queue associated with the client device . In some embodiments the client device may check in by transmitting its status information depicted in to the management service which the management service may use to update the management record associated with the client device . Additionally in some embodiments the management service may determine whether the client device is authorized to receive any procedure calls and or resources in a command queue associated with the client device before permitting the client device to download the procedure calls and or resources by determining whether the client device complies with certain profiles associated with such procedure calls and or resources . In an instance in which the management service determines that the particular client device is authorized to receive procedure calls the management service may permit the client device to download the procedure calls and or resources from the management service e.g. directly through the gateway service .

In certain embodiments the app service may comprise at least one app store i.e. application repositories from which the client device may download apps such as the AirWatch App Catalogue Apple iOS App Store Google Play Store BlackBerry World Windows Phone Store Amazon Appstore SlideME Steam Windows Store Mac App Store or Ubuntu Software Center . In one embodiment the app service may comprise a service that executes apps that the client device may access over the network i.e. web based apps such as Google Apps . In one embodiment the app service may be specific to the capabilities of the client device . For instance the app service may be specific to the operating system of the client device that is the client device may communicate with a particular app service that correlates with the operating system of the client device . Thus for example a client device running the Apple iOS operating system may be configured to communicate with the Apple iOS App Store through which the client device may access apps specific to the Apple iOS operating system of the client device i.e. apps capable of being executed by Apple iOS operating system . Additionally in some embodiments the client device may only be permitted or configured to communicate with a particular app service that is associated with the client device e.g. an app service specific to the capabilities of the client device specific to a management agent of the client device or specific to the management service .

In certain embodiments the content service may comprise at least one content store i.e. file repositories such as Salesforce.com Dropbox Box Egnyte NetSuite Citrix ShareFile Rackspace Amazon Web Services Google Drive BackupGenie SugarSync Mozy Bitcasa Infinite Drive MediaFire Mega Ubunto One Huddle Evernote Microsoft SharePoint Microsoft Office365 Microsoft SkyDrive or Apple iCloud . In some embodiments the content service may include at least one email service e.g. a service configured to distribute email to the client device such as Microsoft Exchange Novell GroupWise Lotus Notes or Google GMail . In some embodiments similar to the app service the content service may be specific to the capabilities of the client device such that the client device may receive content that the client device is capable of accessing. For instance the client device may communicate with a particular content service based at least in part on the apps accessible to the client device such that the client device may receive content that is accessible i.e. that may be rendered by such apps . Alternatively for example the content service may distribute particular content to the client device based on the apps accessible to the client device such that the client device does not receive content that cannot be accessed i.e. as a result of needing a particular app that is not accessible to the client device .

In certain embodiments the client device may comprise at least one processor e.g. a processor co processor and or processing circuitry and at least one memory . Depending on the configuration and type of client device the memory may comprise volatile e.g. random access memory RAM non volatile e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory or any combination thereof . The memory may store executable programs e.g. program code instructions and related data components of various applications and modules for execution by the processor . The memory may be communicatively coupled to the processor e.g. through at least one system bus for transferring data there between .

Basic functionality of the client device may be provided by at least one operating system which may be stored in the memory of the client device and may be executed by the processor of the client device . In certain embodiments at least one programmed software application i.e. app may be executed by utilizing the computing resources of the client device . For example an app stored in the memory of the client device may be executed by the processor of the client device under the auspices of the operating system of the client device . More specifically the processor of the client device may be configured to execute a plurality of apps such as a web browsing app an email client app an instant messaging app an app configured to securely view and or modify content and or an app capable of accessing resources provisioned to the client device .

Data provided as an input to an app and or generated as output from an app may be stored in the memory of the client device and may be read by the processor of the client device as needed during the course of execution of the app . Data provided as an input to an app may be data stored in the memory of the client device by a secondary app or other source either internal or external to client device e.g. the operating system of the client device or may be provided to the app during installation of the app .

The client device may include at least one communication port . It will be understood that although a single communication port is depicted any number of communication ports may be present according to other example configurations of the client device . In some embodiments the communication port may be configured to provide the client device with a communication channel to other devices such as the management server and or remote services such as another client device the management service the notification service the gateway service the app service or the content service . For instance the client device may be managed and or provisioned with resources by the management service e.g. directly through the gateway service with the assistance of the communication port which may facilitate a communication channel between the client device and the appropriate remote service.

More specifically the communication port may include components such as a wireless network connectivity interface an Ethernet network adapter and or a modem that may assist in connecting the client device to the network other devices or other services as described herein. For example the wireless network connectivity interface may comprise one or more of a wireless radio transceiver PCI Peripheral Component Interconnect card USB Universal Serial Bus interface PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association card SDIO Secure Digital Input Output card NewCard Cardbus a modem and or the like. According to some embodiments the communication port may additionally or alternatively include at least one antenna supporting hardware and or software and or supporting circuitry configured to receive and or transmit signals according to any short range communication protocols and or standards such as for example near field communication NFC Bluetooth and or Bluetooth Low Energy BLE . According to some embodiments the communication port may additionally or alternatively include at least one interface configured to provide location services such as at least one antenna supporting hardware and or software and or supporting circuitry configured to receive signals transmitted from GPS satellites.

In certain embodiments the client device may receive data as user input via at least one input output interface such as a keyboard a mouse a pen a stylus a sound input device a touch input device a biometric device a capture device a brain computer interface BCI and or the like. The input output interfaces may additionally or alternatively include at least one sensing device such as a camera a microphone a motion detector a proximity sensor and or a biometric sensors i.e. a sensor configured to capture visual aural physical and or other types of stimuli and or information such as spoken words motions gestures and biometric signatures .

Similarly in some embodiments the client device may present data to a user of the client device via the input output interfaces such as data generated by apps e.g. a user interface UI etc. during the execution of the apps . The input output interfaces may include at least one device configured to provide information and or stimuli to a user of the client device . In particular the input output interfaces may include at least one of a display device e.g. monitor screen and or touchscreen speakers a force vibration and or haptic feedback generating device an implanted and or a physiologically integrated output device and a heads up display device. It will be understood that although the input output interfaces are depicted as a combined component in they may according to example embodiments be embodied by at least one component that exclusively provides input functionality or output functionality.

In certain embodiments the memory of a client device may include a platform library . The platform library may include a plurality of procedures i.e. computing functionality which may include procedures that may be useful to the operating system of a client device apps accessible to the client device and or remote services communicatively coupled to the client device e.g. the management service . In one embodiment the platform library may include a plurality of system utilities i.e. procedures required for the maintenance of the client device itself . In one embodiment the platform library may include a software development kit SDK i.e. procedures required for at least one app accessible to the client device . These procedures may be accessed by the client device as needed so that the operating system apps and or remote services do not have to include the procedures in their codebase which may provide for memory consumption savings and a consistent user experience.

In some embodiments the procedures of the platform library may be implemented on the client device through at least one application programming interface API . More specifically an API may be configured to listen for i.e. maintain an open port via which it may receive a corresponding procedure call that is an API may correspond to a procedure call such that the API recognizes the procedure call as a valid and authorized request to perform at least one particular procedure of the platform library . In an instance in which an API receives a corresponding procedure call the API may relay the procedure call to the corresponding procedure of the platform library such that the procedure is performed by the client device . For instance when an API for erasing all data from the client device receives a procedure call instructing the client device to erase all data from the client device the API may direct the operating system of the client device to the location of the procedure in the platform library i.e. the codebase for erasing all data from the client device such that the operating system of the client device may process the procedure which may in turn erase all data from the client device .

In certain embodiments the memory of the client device may further include a plurality of personal data . Personal data may include for instance any data accessible to and or stored within a client device that is personal to a user of the client device that is personal data may be distinct from provisioned data i.e. management records procedure calls resources in that provisioned data may not be personal to the user of the client device because the provisioned data may be personal to a particular enterprise . Nevertheless similar to provisioned data specifically resources personal data may include apps content and or profiles . Additionally in some embodiments personal data may include user data associated with at least one user of the client device . For example user data may include at least one user preference i.e. parameters that may affect the experience of the user and or at least one characteristic describing a user e.g. a user s age gender bodily traits .

In certain embodiments the memory of the client device may further include a plurality of components that may provide the capability to locally perform management operations with respect to the client device . More specifically the memory of the client device may include a plurality of provisioned data i.e. at least one management record at least one resource and at least one management agent . In one embodiment as described herein resources may include apps content and profiles which may include credentials configurations and compliance rules .

Additionally as described herein the management record may include status information describing the client device which will be now be described in further detail. In some embodiments at least a portion of the management record and any included status information may be synchronized between the client device and the management server that is a management record stored on the client device and a management record stored on the management server may be updated upon a change to either management record such that the two management records include the same information. For instance the management agent and the management service may establish a communicative connection through which the management agent and the management service may notify one another of any changes to their respective management records describing the client device which may provide a basis for the other party i.e. the management agent or the management service to update its respective management record describing the client device .

In certain embodiments the status information of the management record may describe the client device that is the status information may provide at least one indication of the state of the client device . In some embodiments the status information may include information describing the client device itself. For example the status information may include hardware specifications of the client device version and or configuration information of various software program and or hardware components installed on the client device data transmission protocols enabled on the client device version and usage information of various resources accessible to the client device information regarding any errors or faults detected on the client device . Additionally the status information may include and or describe at least one of the following characteristics of the client device device name device UDID phone number IMEI MEID number device serial number IMSI number device model device model name manufacturer operating system version operating system build firmware kernel version battery available battery capacity memory available memory capacity Wi Fi address Wi Fi MAC Wi Fi signal strength carrier settings version cellular signal strength cellular technology e.g. GSM CDMA LTE 4G 3G EDGE current MCC current MNC SIM card number SIM carrier network subscriber MMC subscriber MNC Bluetooth MAC data usage via cellular network data usage via Wi Fi network phone call history text message history e.g. SMS MMS roaming status e.g. generally data usage while roaming phone calls made while roaming text messages sent while roaming current carrier network current network status current cellular tower information nearby cellular tower information installed apps installed app versions and app usage statistics.

Additionally in some embodiments the status information may describe contextual details associated with the client device . For example the status information may include at least one geographic location where the client device has been or is currently located at least one time when the client device has been or is being operated information regarding an enterprise and or IT Department associated with the client device information regarding management of the client device by the management service e.g. dates times when the client device was provisioned with provisioned data dates times when the client device has checked in with the management service information regarding at least one use of the client device e.g. logs of usage of apps on the client device logs of access to content on the client device and or information regarding at least one charge resulting from uses of the client device e.g. cellular data charges roaming charges app purchases .

In certain embodiments the management agent may provide local management of the client device on behalf of the management server . In some embodiments the management agent may comprise a software component e.g. an app a local service that is configured to perform management operations with respect to the client device . For instance in some embodiments the management agent may have heightened privileges with respect to the client device e.g. root access administrative rights such that the management agent may instruct the operating system of the client device to perform certain procedures that is the management agent may be configured to perform certain procedures that are not available to apps without heightened privileges. In some embodiments a manufacturer or cellular carrier of the client device may install the management component on the client device before the client device is provided to a user of the client device e.g. MDM service on Apple iOS . In one embodiment a user or administrator of the client device may install the management agent on the client device after the client device is provided by a manufacturer or cellular carrier of the client device e.g. AirWatch Mobile Device Management Agent AirWatch Workspace Agent Apps wrapped with app management wrappers Apps developed using the an app management SDK VMware Virtualization Hypervisor .

In certain embodiments the management agent may include at least one communication module and at least one implementation module which may assist in providing management capabilities with respect to the client device . In some embodiments management agent may be configured to establish a direct communicative coupling with the management server through which the management agent may transmit data to and from the management service . In other embodiments however the communication module may be configured to establish a communicative coupling with the management server through which the management agent may transmit data to and from the management service . For instance the communication module may receive a plurality of provisioned data e.g. management records procedure calls resources in addition to instance user interfaces for engaging with restricted resources from the management service . Additionally for instance the communication module may transmit information to the management service e.g. management records status information of management records requests for access to restricted resources which may assist the management service providing management capabilities with respect to the client device . Similarly in some embodiments the communication module may be configured to establish a communicative coupling with one or more of the notification service the gateway service the app service and the content service through which the management agent may transmit data to and from each respective service.

In some embodiments the implementation module may be operable to modify e.g. configure constrain restrict add to enhance the operations of the client device in accordance with provisioned data . The implementation module may for example be provided access to provisioned data by the communication module once the communication module receives the provisioned data e.g. from the management service or other services . For example the implementation module may be provided access to an instance of a UI for interacting with an instance of a restricted resource . In one embodiment an implementation module may be in direct communicative coupling with an aggregate generator as may a management agent . As described herein the management agent including the implementation module may have heightened privileges with respect to the client device which may allow the implementation module to instruct the client device e.g. the operating system of the client device apps executed by the client device to modify its operations in accordance with the provisioned data .

In some embodiments the implementation module may act as a conduit of the management service that is the implementation module may modify the operations of the client device upon receiving access to the provisioned data . For instance the implementation module may upon receiving access to resources instruct the client device to store the resources in an encrypted format e.g. as specified by configurations associated with the resources . Additionally in some embodiments the implementation module may act autonomously that is the implementation module may modify the operations of the client device in an instance in which the provisioned data requires the operations of the client device to be modified. For example the implementation module may instruct the client device to store resources in an encrypted format in response to a determination that the client device has been jailbroken by a user of the client device e.g. as specified by compliance rules associated with the resources . Accordingly the management agent may be particularly useful for managing the client device when the client device is offline i.e. not communicatively coupled to the management service as the management agent may continue to manage the client device irrespective of the client device being offline whereas the management service may require a communicative coupling to the client device for the management service to perform certain management operations with respect to the client device such as transmitting procedure calls to the client device .

As noted in one embodiment the management agent including the implementation module may be communicatively coupled to an aggregate generator . As discussed in one embodiment a profile may designate a resource as a server device resource . In such an instance aspects of the resource may be executable on the client device while other aspects of the resource may be executable on a remote server e.g. management server . In one embodiment the management agent including the implementation module may transmit a UI for interfacing with client device side aspects of the resource to the aggregate generator . Additionally upon receipt of an instance of a UI for interacting with the server side aspects of the resource the communications module or management agent may transmit the instance UI to the aggregate generator . Accordingly in one embodiment the aggregate generator may generate an aggregate UI such that the UI for interfacing with client device side aspects of the resource i.e. the native UI and the instance of the UI for interacting with the server side aspects of the resource are fused into a resultant element i.e. an aggregate UI for engaging the resource which is configured for presentation to the user. As will be understood and appreciated aspects of the present disclosure may present the fused UI i.e. the aggregate UI to the client device user in a transparent manner such that the user may not perceive that a restricted version of the resource is being accessed. In other words the aggregate generator may run silently in the background to fuse an instance of a UI for interacting with server side aspects of a resource with the native UI.

In one embodiment as opposed to an actual resource or manipulable file the aggregate UI comprises code being processed such that it can be output for display on a client device . Accordingly attempts to manipulate the aggregate UI e.g. copy paste transmit save etc. would be futile. As will be understood and appreciated because the aggregate UI cannot be manipulated the restricted resource or aspects of the restricted resource are provided additional security. Further in one embodiment as an additional security measure an aggregate UI could be watermarked according to various compliance rules.

Returning to the management agent the management agent may be configured to perform a plurality of management operations with respect to the client device i.e. with the assistance of the communication module and or implementation module . In particular the management agent may perform management operations related to management records procedure calls and resources . Each of these embodiments will now be described in further detail.

In certain embodiments the management agent may be configured to perform management operations related to any management records associated with the client device e.g. those specific to the client device . In some embodiments the management agent may provide local management of management records . For instance the management agent may update management records to reflect any management operations performed with respect to the client device as described herein. Additionally for example the management agent may update the status information of management records to ensure that the management records accurately describe the client device that is the management agent may monitor the operations of the client device to detect whether the status information remains accurate and may update the status information in the event that the status information no longer accurately describes the client device . Furthermore in some embodiments the management agent may provide synchronization services with respect to the management records . For example the management agent may transmit at least a portion of the management records to the management service such that the management records for the client device are identical i.e. the management records stored locally on the client device and the management records stored remotely on the management server as described herein.

In certain embodiments the management agent may be configured to perform management operations related to any procedure calls designated for implementation on the client device e.g. procedure calls provisioned to the client device by the management service . As described herein in some embodiments the management agent may have heightened privileges with respect to the client device that may permit the management agent to instruct the client device to implement procedure calls . In one embodiment the management agent may have root access to the operating system of the client device i.e. permission to control the operations of the operating system which may provide the management agent with the capability to instruct the operating system to implement procedure calls . Additionally in some embodiments the management agent may have administrative privileges with respect to the platform library of the client device which may permit the management agent to pass procedure calls an API of the client device which may then in turn trigger the performance of the procedure calls as described herein.

Furthermore in certain embodiments the management agent may include a plurality of procedures within the code base of the management agent i.e. a management agent platform library that may be either locally requested e.g. by the management agent or apps communicatively coupled to the management agent or remotely requested e.g. by the management server . More specifically the management agent platform library may provide for the management agent to perform certain operations requested by procedure calls without any assistance from the operating system or the platform library of the client device . In this regard the management agent may listen for procedure calls to procedures of the management agent platform library and may execute the procedures when valid and authorized procedure calls are received. In some embodiments the management agent may utilize the management agent platform library to perform operations that are not supported or provided for by the operating system or platform library of the client device e.g. root access detection jailbreak detection .

In certain embodiments the management agent may be configured to perform management operations related to any resources provisioned to the client device e.g. those provisioned by the management service . In one embodiment the management agent may instruct the client device to store resources in accordance with profiles associated with the resources . For instance the management agent may instruct the client device to store the resources in a containerized portion of memory as specified by a profile associated with the resources . Additionally in some embodiments the management agent may provide access to resources in accordance with profiles associated with the resources . For instance the management agent may provide apps with credentials associated with the enterprise as specified by profiles associated with the apps when a user of the client device requests access to the apps which may facilitate the apps in obtaining resources associated with the enterprise . Moreover for example the management agent may encrypt all resources stored by the client device with a particular encryption key in accordance with a configuration associated with the resources and may provide a proper decryption key to apps executed by the client device when such apps require access to the resources .

In certain embodiments the management agent may monitor the operations of the client device to determine whether the client device satisfies compliance rules . For instance in some embodiments the management agent may monitor hardware features of the client device software features of the client device apps executed by the client device data in transit to and or from the client device e.g. to determine whether the data includes remote procedure calls and or other characteristics of the client device to determine whether at least one triggering condition is present on the client device e.g. triggering conditions specified by compliance rules . Additionally in some embodiments the management agent may perform at least one remedial action with respect to the client device in an instance in which at least one triggering condition paired with the remedial actions is present on the client device e.g. remedial actions specified by compliance rules . For example the management agent may instruct the operating system of the client device to perform a device lock on the client device in an instance in which at least one function of the client device associated with a particular enterprise is performed outside of standard workday hours i.e. the presence of a triggering condition on the client device .

In certain embodiments the management agent may query the management record to determine whether the client device satisfies the compliance rules . In particular the management agent may determine whether information included in the management records indicates that the compliance rules are satisfied or are not satisfied e.g. the status information . For instance the management agent may determine that a compliance rule specifying that the client device may only be used within the USA is not satisfied when the status information describing the client device indicates that the client device is currently located in Europe which may in turn prompt the management agent to perform any remedial actions specified by the compliance rule i.e. as a result of the presence of the triggering condition on the client device .

In certain embodiments the management agent may request the assistance management service to determine whether compliance rules are satisfied. In some embodiments the management agent may transmit a request to the management service that requests that the management service determine whether compliance rules are satisfied by the client device which may further include the particular compliance rules in question. Additionally in some embodiments the management agent may transmit at least a portion of the management record and any included status information of the client device to the management service which the management service may use as an additional basis for determining whether compliance rules are satisfied. In any case the management agent may receive a response from the management service specifying whether the client device satisfies the compliance rules .

Furthermore in certain embodiments the management agent may query the client device on the fly to determine whether compliance rules are satisfied. In some embodiments the management agent of the client device may not maintain management records or status information accordingly the management agent of the client device may query various components of the client device in an on demand manner to determine whether the state of the client device satisfies compliance rules . For instance the management agent of the client device may communicate with the operating system of the client device to obtain an apps list that specifies all apps that are installed on the client device which the management agent may use to determine whether an app designated by a compliance rule as prohibited is installed on the client device to determine whether the compliance rule is satisfied.

For example in one embodiment an administrator may identify certain resources which may be enterprise content that should be restricted. Accordingly the administrator may configure a profile which may comprise various configurations and or compliance rules that constrains the manner in which a client device interacts with the restricted resources . Accordingly in the foregoing example in one embodiment an administrator may configure a profile that constrains certain aspects of an app i.e. a restricted app such that those aspects cannot be executed on a client device . Put differently the administrator may via the profile designate the app as device server meaning certain aspects of the app may be executed on the client device while other aspects of the app must be executed on a remote server e.g. management server . In one embodiment an administrator may configure a profile that limits when and or where a resource can be executed on a client device. In one embodiment an administrator may configure a profile that specifies that access to certain resources i.e. certain restricted resources restricted apps and or restricted content should be limited in the interest of protecting sensitive enterprise information.

In another example in one embodiment an administrator may identify certain resources e.g. apps and or content which may be enterprise content that should be restricted under certain circumstances. Accordingly the administrator may configure a profile that includes various profile criteria such that the profile criteria relate to the client device requesting access to the resource . In an example embodiment status information that describes the client device may be evaluated to determine whether profile criteria are satisfied. Accordingly evaluating a profile criterion to determine a processing restriction of a resource may involve evaluating status information describing the client device requesting access to the resource . In an example embodiment profile criteria may require a client device that is requesting access to a resource to enable one or more configurations to utilize one or more credentials and or to satisfy one or more compliance rules . Further in an example embodiment profile criteria may relate to state details of the client device e.g. whether the client device is in a factory default state whether the client device is in a jailbroken state whether the client device is connected to a secure network . Likewise in an example embodiment profile criteria may relate to technological characteristics of the client device e.g. hardware or software features enabled on the client device resources accessible to and or stored by the client device . Additionally in an example embodiment profile criteria may relate to contextual characteristics of the client device e.g. geographic location of the client device time of operation of the client device .

According to one embodiment of the present disclosure an administrator may configure profiles including profile criteria that apply varying degrees of restriction to resources e.g. restricted apps and or restricted content . For example in one embodiment a resource may include or utilize information associated with an enterprise which may include keywords related to the enterprise information relating to contacts and or personnel of the enterprise information relating to the enterprise s intellectual property information relating to the enterprise s finances and or the like. Accordingly because of the sensitivity of the information associated with or utilized by the resource an administrator may configure a profile associated with the resource that restricts the manner in which the resource can be accessed. For example the profile may specify that the resource is restricted from being executed on the client device and must be processed at a remote computing device such as management server i.e. a processing restriction designates the resource as server only . Alternatively the profile may specify that only certain aspects of the resource are restricted from being executed on the client device i.e. a processing restriction designates the resource as server device . In one embodiment a profile may be a static profile i.e. the restriction to aspects of the subject resource e.g. app and or content may be an always on or always off decision . For example a profile may mandate that certain financial data i.e. restricted content can never be processed on a client device i.e. the processing restriction of the restricted content is server only .

In one embodiment the profile associated with the resource may include profile criteria relating to certain information relating to the client device requesting access to the resource . For example based on profile criteria the profile may specify that the resource or aspects of the resource can be executed on the client device in particular circumstances or depending on certain device or environment driven circumstances e.g. between certain hours when the client device is located in certain geolocations etc. . In other words an administrator can configure a profile such that it is dynamic i.e. aspects of the subject resource e.g. app and or content and various profile criteria are evaluated upon receipt of a request for access to the resource to determine whether the requested resource is subject to any processing restrictions depending on current circumstances which may be reflected in state and or status information relating to the client device .

As noted in example embodiments an administrator may configure a profile that restricts certain aspects of a resource . For example a profile may allow execution of aspects of an app on a client device while constraining other aspects of the app to execution on a remote server e.g. management server . In one embodiment for example a profile may be configured such that aspects of a restricted app such as user settings and preferences can be executed on a client device . In addition the profile may specify that other aspects of the restricted app e.g. aspects relating to enterprise information must be engaged via a remote server e.g. management server . In such an example a profile associated with the restricted resource may include a processing restriction designating the restricted resource as server device which according to one embodiment specifies that certain aspects of the resource are constrained to execution on a remote server while a mobile device user can engage other aspects directly via the client device . As will be understood and appreciated because of the highly sensitive nature of certain enterprise information e.g. resources apps and or content it may be desirable to store certain restricted resources including restricted apps and or restricted content remotely e.g. at management server thus limiting the amount of time the restricted resources are stored on a client device which in turn may limit the risk of a data breach if the client device is lost or stolen.

As will be understood with respect to execution or processing resources that are not constrained by a profile i.e. unrestricted resources may be fully executable at a client device and may be associated with a native user interface native UI configured to present data associated with the unrestricted resource . In one embodiment the native UI may be fully executable at the client device and resides at the client device . Further aspects of the native UI may be stored locally on the client device e.g. in memory . For example the native UI may comprise settings and configurations relating to or specified by the user of the client device which may be stored at the client device . Further in one embodiment aspects of the native user interface may be designated by one or more configurations .

As noted however certain profiles may specify that certain restricted resources or aspects of restricted resources cannot be executed on a client device according to one embodiment. Accordingly in one embodiment an instance generator may generate an instance of the restricted resource and an instance UI generator may generate an instance UI that can allow a client device user to engage with a restricted resource or the aspects of the restricted resource that cannot be executed on the client device . In one embodiment an aggregate generator may be configured to receive the instance UI and generate a resultant element i.e. aggregate UI comprising the aspects of the native UI in addition to the instance UI for presentation to the client device user. For example in one embodiment in addition to the instance UI the aggregate UI may also comprise aspects of the native UI e.g. settings and configurations relating to or specified by the user of the client device .

In one embodiment a profile may specify that certain restricted resources e.g. restricted apps and or restricted content cannot reside on a client device or may reside only transiently on a client device . Accordingly as discussed in one embodiment an instance UI or other representation of a restricted resource which may be generated by an instance UI generator may need to be merged or fused with a native UI associated with the restricted resource . Accordingly as discussed in one embodiment the aggregate generator may be configured to fuse the native UI with the instance UI to generate a resultant element i.e. aggregate UI for presentation to the user at the client device . Further in one embodiment to comply with a restriction that a restricted resource is to reside on the client device only transiently an aggregate UI may be cleared from the memory once the aggregate UI has been displayed. As will be understood and appreciated the aggregate generator may be configured to operate such that the user is agnostic to its presence. In other words the aggregate generator may run in the background to fuse an instance UI generated by an instance UI generator with the native UI to generate the aggregate UI.

In certain embodiments the aggregate generator may be configured to operate in an on the fly manner. In other words in one embodiment generating an instance UI to allow engagement with restricted resources e.g. restricted apps and or restricted content by an instance UI generator transmitting the representations from the management server to the client device receiving the instance UI and fusing the instance UI with a native UI by an aggregate generator and outputting for display the aggregate UI may occur nearly simultaneously. In other embodiments however an aggregate generator may operate as part of a predictive process. For example based on the current state of a restricted resource e.g. a restricted app or a client device the instance UI generator may generate a plurality of instance UIs based on the instance provided by the instance generator representing various possible user operations or responses to potential user inputs. Put differently the instance generator may predict and process various user commands and in response the instance UI generator may generate the various instance UIs that represent responses to the predicted user inputs based on the current state of the restricted resource or client device . Accordingly in one embodiment upon receipt of an indication of a user input the management agent may query the management server for the proper response to the user input and in response the management server may transmit the proper instance UI which was previously generated by the instance UI generator .

In an example embodiment a user may request access to a restricted resource which may be restricted content . For example a profile associated with particular content e.g. a spreadsheet may specify that content is restricted because it contains sensitive enterprise data. Accordingly upon receipt of an indication of a request to access the restricted content a management agent may request access to the restricted content from a remote server e.g. management server . In one embodiment the instance generator may generate an instance i.e. representation of the requested restricted content i.e. the spreadsheet . Likewise the instance generator may generate discrete aspects of the spreadsheet e.g. individual cells or groups of cells in anticipation of requests for those discrete aspects. Additionally in one embodiment the instance UI generator may generate various instance UIs relating to the discrete aspects of the spreadsheet. Accordingly in one example if a user indicates a desire to zoom into a particular cell or group of cells of the requested spreadsheet the management agent may query the management server for the pre generated instance UI relating to the requested cell or groups of cells.

Moving to the sequence diagram shown in in one embodiment a client device may receive an indication of a request to access a resource configured for execution by the client device . As discussed the resource may be associated with one or more profiles which may specify various configurations and or compliance rules applicable to the resource which may be managed by a management agent . So in one embodiment upon receiving an indication of a request to access a resource at management agent may access and or query a profile associated with the resource to ensure that the resource operates in accordance with the associated profile i.e. to determine any limitations associated with the resource and or to determine one or more processing restrictions or designations associated with the resource .

In one embodiment the profile may specify that that the resource is a restricted resource and or restricted application and or restricted content meaning at least one feature of the resource must be processed outside of the client device . For example in one embodiment the profile constraining the restricted resource may mandate that at least one aspect or feature of the restricted resource be carried out by a remote server e.g. management server from which the profile was issued .

Accordingly in one embodiment at responsive to determining that the resource is a restricted resource e.g. responsive to receiving an indication that the processing restriction of the requested resource is server only or device server the management agent may transmit a request to access the restricted resource or an aspect of the restricted resource to the management service . In one embodiment at upon receipt of the request the management service may transmit the request to an instance generator . As discussed in certain embodiments an instance generator may be configured to generate an instance of the requested resource that can be executed at the management server such that the user of the client device is unaware that she is interacting with an instance of the requested resource as opposed to a locally stored version of the resource being executed at the client device . Accordingly in one embodiment at the instance generator generates an instance of the requested resource . Additionally in one embodiment responsive to the generation of the instance of the requested resource at the instance generator may transmit a request to an instance UI generator which may be communicatively coupled to the instance generator to generate an instance UI for engaging the instance of the requested resource . Accordingly at the instance UI generator may generate the instance UI for engaging the instance of the requested resource and the instance UI may be transmitted to the management service at . In one embodiment at the management service may transmit the instance UI associated with the requested resource to the management agent which the management agent may make available for presentation to the user at .

In one embodiment upon receiving an indication of a request to interact with an aspect of the resource i.e. the instance of the resource the management agent may transmit the request to the management service at . For instance a request to interact with an aspect of the resource may include a keystroke keyword inputs an input gesture such as a swipe gesture at a touch input device etc. In one embodiment at the management service may transmit the request to an instance generator such that it can be processed at and at the instance generator may transmit information relating to the processed output to instance UI generator such that instance UI generator can generate an appropriate instance UI reflecting the processed request i.e. what the user would see in response to the requested manipulation at . In one embodiment upon processing the request the instance generator may update any resultant data associated with the request and store the updated data at the management server e.g. at management database .

For example in one embodiment the request may be to access a restricted document i.e. restricted content . Accordingly in one embodiment the instance UI generator may process the request and render a representation of a UI that presents the requested document to the user. In one example the restricted resource may be an enterprise contact directory. Accordingly the management component may receive a request to access a certain subsection of the contacts in the directory e.g. all contacts having a last name starting with C . In the foregoing example upon receiving the request the instance generator may process the request i.e. access the appropriate contacts and the instance UI generator may render a display of the contacts i.e. the instance UI that may be output for presentation to the user.

In one embodiment at subsequent to rendering the appropriate instance UI the instance UI generator may transmit the instance UI to management service which may then transmit the instance UI to the management agent for presentation to the user of the client device at .

As discussed a profile associated with a resource may be configured such that only certain aspects of the resource are restricted while other aspects are unrestricted i.e. the processing restriction of the resource is server device . Accordingly upon request by a user to access such a resource the client device may be able to execute aspects of the resource locally i.e. at the client device . But as noted the profile may be configured to limit the access to certain aspects of the resource by the client device . For example as discussed above certain aspects of the resource may contain or be associated with important enterprise information. Accordingly an administrator may configure a profile such that those aspects e.g. aspects relating to enterprise information must be processed outside of the client device e.g. at the management server from which the profile was issued . In other words in such an example the profile associated with the restricted resource requires that certain aspects of the resource must be processed remotely e.g. at management server .

As will be discussed in relation to the sequence diagram shown in in one embodiment a client device may receive a request from a user to access a certain resource e.g. app or content . As discussed one or more profiles may be associated with the requested resource . Accordingly in one embodiment the management agent may access and or query a profile associated with the resource to determine whether there are any restrictions or limitations associated with the requested resource .

As noted in one embodiment the profile may indicate that the resource has been designated as server device i.e. the processing restriction of the resource is server device in which case aspects of the resource must be processed or accessed remotely e.g. at management server . Accordingly in one embodiment of a process as shown in at responsive to determining that the profile designates the requested resource as server device the management agent may transmit a UI for engaging or interacting with the device side aspects of the requested resource to an aggregate generator . Additionally in one embodiment at the management agent may transmit a request to a communications module to receive access to server side aspects of the requested resource . As discussed in one embodiment a communication module may be configured to establish a communicative connection with the management server and or management service . Accordingly at upon receipt of the request to access the server side aspects of the requested resource the communication module may transmit a request for access to the resources to the management service or management server .

In response to receipt of the request the management server may generate an instance of the requested resource in addition to an instance of the UI for engaging and or accessing the server side aspects of the requested resource as described in relation to . Accordingly in one embodiment at the management server may transmit the appropriate instance of the UI to the communication module . Upon receipt of the instance of the UI at the communication module may transmit the instance UI to the aggregate generator . Further according to one embodiment upon receipt of the instance UI for interacting with the server side aspects of the requested resource at the aggregate generator may fuse the UI for interfacing with client device side aspects of the resource with the instance of the UI for interfacing with the server side aspects of the resource to generate a resultant element i.e. an aggregate UI for engaging the resource which is configured for presentation to the user of the client device .

In one embodiment even when a profile designates certain resources as restricted it may be necessary to transiently store the resource at the client device . Accordingly the management agent may instruct the operating system that the subject information e.g. the instance of the UI should be stored at the client device only transiently and should be discarded immediately after use. In one embodiment the management agent may specify to the operating system one or more storage locations e.g. a containerized aspect of memory at which the subject information may be transiently stored. Further the management agent may instruct the operating system that the containerized aspects of the memory transiently storing the subject information should be cleared or overwritten i.e. the containerized aspects of the memory should be cleared upon notification that the subject information is no longer necessary upon expiration of a threshold duration upon the occurrence of a predefined condition or upon the occurrence of other applicable criteria.

As described above illustrate sequence diagrams of example apparatuses methods and computer program products according to example embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each operation of the sequence diagram and combinations of operations in the sequence diagrams may be implemented by various means such as hardware firmware processor circuitry and or other devices associated with execution of software including at least one computer program instruction. For example at least one of the operations described above may be embodied by computer program instructions. According to some example embodiments such computer program instructions may be embodied as a management agent.

In this regard the computer program instructions that embody the procedures described above may be stored by a memory device of an apparatus employing an embodiment of the present invention and executed by a processor of the apparatus. As will be appreciated any such computer program instructions may be loaded onto a computer or other programmable apparatus e.g. hardware to produce a machine such that the resulting computer or other programmable apparatus implements the functions specified in the flowchart blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that may direct a computer or other programmable apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture the execution of which implements the function or operation specified in the sequence diagram. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable apparatus to cause a series of operations to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide operations for implementing the functions or operations specified in the sequence diagrams.

Accordingly operations shown in the sequence diagrams support combinations of means for performing the specified functions and combinations of operations for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that at least one operation of the sequence diagram and combinations of operations can be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems that perform the specified functions or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Example embodiments of the invention will now be described with reference to in which particular elements of an apparatus for implementing various functionality of the example embodiments including performing the methods depicted in sequence diagrams shown in are depicted. In order to implement such functionality the apparatus of may be employed for example in conjunction with at least one client device and or the management server depicted in . But it should be noted that the apparatus of also may be employed in connection with a variety of other devices both mobile and fixed in order to implement the various functionality of the present invention and therefore embodiments of the present invention should not be limited to those depicted. It should also be noted that while illustrates one example of a configuration of an apparatus for implementing the functionality of the present invention numerous other configurations may additionally or alternatively be used to implement embodiments of the present invention. Accordingly it will be understood that various devices components and or elements depicted and or described as being in communication with each other may for example be embodied within a single device or distributed across multiple devices.

Referring now to the apparatus for providing management of restricted actions via unauthorized applications according to some example embodiments of the present invention may include or otherwise be in communication with an apparatus processor processor an apparatus memory device memory device and an apparatus communication interface communication interface . As described below the apparatus may also include an apparatus user interface user interface such as when the apparatus is embodied by or otherwise associated with a client device . In some embodiments the processor and or co processors or other processing circuitry assisting or otherwise associated with the processor may be in communication with the memory device via a bus configured to pass information among components of the apparatus . The memory device may for example include at least one volatile and or non volatile memory. The memory device may be configured to store information data content applications instructions or the like for enabling the apparatus to carry out various functions in accordance with an example embodiment of the present invention. For example the memory device may be configured to store instructions such as program code instructions that when executed by the processor cause the apparatus to carry out various operations.

The processor may be embodied in a number of different ways. For example the processor may be embodied as at least one of a variety of hardware processing means such as a coprocessor a microprocessor a controller a digital signal processor DSP a processing element with or without an accompanying DSP or various other processing circuitry including integrated circuits such as for example an ASIC application specific integrated circuit an FPGA field programmable gate array a microcontroller unit MCU a hardware accelerator a special purpose computer chip or the like. As such in some embodiments the processor may include at least one processing core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor may enable multiprocessing within a single physical package. Additionally or alternatively the processor may include at least one processor configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and or multithreading.

In an example embodiment the processor may be configured to execute instructions stored in the memory device or otherwise accessible to the processor . Alternatively or additionally the processor may be configured to execute hard coded functionality. As such whether configured by hardware or software methods or by a combination thereof the processor may represent an entity e.g. physically embodied in circuitry capable of performing operations according to an embodiment of the present invention while configured accordingly. Thus for example when the processor is embodied as an ASIC FPGA or the like the processor may be specifically configured hardware for conducting the operations described herein. Alternatively as another example when the processor is embodied as an executor of software instructions the instructions may specifically configure the processor to perform the algorithms and or operations described herein when the instructions are executed. However in some cases the processor may be a processor of a specific device e.g. a client device and or management server configured to employ an embodiment of the present invention by further configuration of the processor by instructions for performing the algorithms and or operations described herein. The processor may include among other things a clock an arithmetic logic unit ALU and logic gates configured to support operation of the processor .

The communication interface may be any means such as a device or circuitry embodied in either hardware or a combination of hardware and software that is configured to receive and or transmit data from to a network such as the network and or any other device or module in communication with the apparatus . In this regard the communication interface may include for example an antenna or multiple antennas and supporting hardware and or software for enabling communications with a wireless communication network. Additionally or alternatively the communication interface may include the circuitry for interacting with the antenna s to cause transmission of signals via the antenna s or to handle receipt of signals received via the antenna s . Additionally or alternatively the communication interface may include at least one antenna supporting hardware and or software and or supporting circuitry for receiving and or transmitting signals according to any short range communication protocols and or standards such as for example NFC Bluetooth and or BLE. In some environments the communication interface may support wired communication. As such for example the communication interface may include a communication modem and or other hardware software for supporting communication via cable digital subscriber line DSL universal serial bus USB or other mechanisms such as any of those discussed above in the context of the communication ports depicted in .

In some embodiments such as instances in which the apparatus is embodied by or otherwise associated with a client device the apparatus may include a user interface in communication with the processor to receive indications of user input and or to cause audible visual mechanical or other output to be provided to the user. As such the user interface may for example include a keyboard a mouse a joystick a display a touch screen touch areas soft keys a microphone a speaker a BCI or other input output mechanisms and or devices such as any of those discussed above in the context of the user interfaces depicted in and or the input output interfaces depicted in . The processor may be configured to control at least one function of at least one user interface element through computer program instructions e.g. software and or firmware stored on a memory accessible to the processor e.g. memory device . In other embodiments however the apparatus may not include a user interface .

It will be further understood that in embodiments in which the apparatus is embodied by or otherwise associated with a client device the memory device may for example be embodied by the memories depicted in the processor may for example be embodied by the processors depicted in the communication interface may for example be embodied by the communication ports depicted in and or the user interface may for example be embodied by the input output interfaces depicted in .

Furthermore embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced in conjunction with a graphics library other operating systems or any other application program and is not limited to any particular application or system. The devices described with respect to the FIGs. may have additional features or functionality. For example client device may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable such as magnetic disks optical disks or tape not depicted .

Many modifications and other embodiments of the embodiments set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these disclosures pertain having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the disclosures are not to be limited to the specific embodiments and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover although the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings describe example embodiments in the context of particular example combinations of elements and or functions it should be appreciated that different combinations of elements and or functions may be provided by alternative embodiments without departing from the scope of the appended claims. For example in some embodiments particular ones of the operations described above may be modified or enhanced. Furthermore in some embodiments additional optional operations may be included. Modifications additions or enhancements to the operations above may be performed in any order and in any combination.

Accordingly different combinations of elements and or functions than those explicitly described above are also contemplated as may be set forth in some of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

As defined and used herein the term enterprise may refer to an entity and or group of individuals such as a business institution or an association that has at least one collective goal such as financial social and or humanitarian goals. Thus the term enterprise may include corporations governments non governmental organizations international organizations armed forces charities not for profit corporations partnerships cooperatives universities political organizations mixed public private organizations and voluntary associations.

As defined and used herein the term IT Department may refer to a sub collection of individuals within an enterprise that oversees the electronic communications of the enterprise in an effort to ensure that data associated with the enterprise is protected from unauthorized access. Thus the IT Department may oversee configuring client devices servers and or networks which may be based at least in part access rights and or authority of personnel within the enterprise utilizing such client devices servers and or networks for enterprise uses.

As defined and used herein the term client device may refer to any electronic device configured to communicate over at least one network. For example particular client devices may refer to a mobile telephone smartphone tablet computer PDA pager wearable device projected interface desktop or laptop computer a set top box a music player a game console or any of numerous other fixed or portable communication devices computation devices content generation devices content consumption devices or combinations thereof

As defined herein a computer readable storage medium may refer to a non transitory physical storage medium e.g. volatile or non volatile memory device and can be differentiated from a computer readable transmission medium which refers to an electromagnetic signal.

Furthermore at least one and at least one both as used herein refer to any non zero quantity and will be used interchangeably herein. Disjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y or Z unless specifically stated otherwise is otherwise understood with the context as used in general to present that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z or any combination thereof e.g. X Y and or Z . Thus such disjunctive language is not generally intended to and should not imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X at least one of Y or at least one of Z to each be present.

All rights including copyrights in the code included herein are vested in and the property of the Assignee. The Assignee retains and reserves all rights in the code included herein and grants permission to reproduce the material only in connection with reproduction of the granted patent and for no other purpose.

All rights including trademarks in the present disclosure are vested in and the property of the owners of the respective trademarks. Accordingly the Assignee retains and reserves all rights in the trademarks owned by the Assignee as described herein. Additionally other third parties may retain and reserve all rights in the trademarks owned by such third parties as described herein.

While the specification includes examples the disclosure s scope is indicated by the following claims. Furthermore while the specification has been described in language associated with structural features and or methodological acts the claims are not limited to the features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example for embodiments of the disclosure.

