---

title: Merging active group calls
abstract: A method for merging active group calls includes receiving, at a first Push to Talk (PTT) server, a request to merge a first and a second active group call. A first and a second group of PTT clients participate in the first and the second active group call, respectively. The first PTT server may send a first invite message to a first group PTT server which hosts the first group call. In response to the first invite message, the first PTT server may receive a first response message. The first PTT server may send a second invite message to a second group PTT server which hosts the second group call. In response to the second invite message, the first PTT server may receive a second response message. The first PTT server may host a merged PTT group call which includes the first and the second group of PTT clients.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09628965&OS=09628965&RS=09628965
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09628965
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20161118
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 754 023 filed on Jun. 29 2015 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 510 166 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

This disclosure relates to data transmission in wireless communication systems and more specifically to merging active group calls.

In some cases a Push to Talk PTT service may provide an arbitrated service for two or more users that engage in a communication. For example a user in a group call may request permission to transmit media e.g. voice video or other multi media contents. In some cases the user may request the permission by pressing a button on a device which sends a request to a server. The server may determine whether to grant the user permission to transmit and send a grant message to the user. Examples of PTT service may include the Mission Critical PTT MCPTT service that may be suitable for mission critical scenarios. In some cases the MCPTT service may use The Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP transport communication mechanisms provided by the Evolved Packet System EPS architectures to establish maintain and terminate the actual communication paths among the users. In some cases the MCPTT service may use non 3GPP access technologies and architectures e.g. based on a dispatcher and or administrator interface . Examples of PTT service may also include non mission critical PTT services.

The present disclosure is directed to merging active group calls. In some cases multiple PTT groups may be temporarily merged. For example when an incident occurs in an area different PTT groups may be merged so that members in these different PTT groups can communicate with one another. In some cases an ad hoc group or a pre arranged group may be formed to include different PTT groups. An ad hoc group call is one where the members of the group are included in the request that initiates the call. A pre arranged group is one where a group list of members is pre defined and the call is initiated by including the URI associated with the group in the request that initiates the call. The users in these different PTT groups may be invited to join the ad hoc group call or the pre arranged group call. After the incident the ad hoc group call or the pre arranged group call may be ended.

In some cases two or more PTT groups have active group calls and would like to merge their active group calls in a merged group call. Using an ad hoc group call or a pre arranged group call for a merged call may lose the status of the active group calls. For example the ad hoc group call or the pre arranged group call approach may invite all the members of the PTT groups including the members who are not participating in the current active group calls. In addition the information of the active group calls e.g. the queue information and pending requests may be lost in the ad hoc group call or the pre arranged group call.

In some cases a type of group known as a chat group may be used for PTT calls. In an ad hoc group or pre arranged group the members are invited to join the group call at the start of the call. In a chat group however the group members have to request to join in a similar way as in a dial in conference .

In some cases of pre arranged and chat groups in addition to having a list of authorized members to be invited or allowed to join the group call the authorized members may have to affiliate to the group to indicate a current interest to be invited to a group call. The active participants in a group call may be a subset of those affiliated to the group since some affiliated members may not be able to participate in the call e.g. due to being out of radio coverage or the user not accepting the invitation to join .

In some cases multiple chat groups or pre arranged groups may need to be merged and authorized members from other groups may attempt to join the merged chat group call e.g. by sending an invite to the PTT server to join the merged chat group call hosted by the server . However the hosting server of the chat group call may not have access to group information e.g. the member list of other PTT groups that host their active group calls in a different server. Therefore the hosting server may not be able to invite or authorize the members from the other PTT groups to join the chat group call. Additionally authorized members of a chat group may not be aware that the chat group has been merged into a temporary chat group call. Therefore a method and or system is needed to either indicate to all authorized members that the chat group has been merged into a temporary chat group call or to redirect and or notify members attempting to join the original chat group that they may now need to join the merged temporary chat group call.

In some implementations the master PTT server may receive a moderator media burst request message from the first group PTT server. The moderator media burst request message may indicate a pending request to send media. The pending request may be received at the first group PTT server prior to the receiving of the request to merge the first and the second active group calls. The master PTT server may send a moderator media burst grant message. The moderator media burst grant message may grant the pending request. In some cases the moderator media burst request message may indicate a Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service MBMS bearer that is used by at least one PTT client of the first group of PTT clients for the first active group call. In some cases the moderator media burst request message may indicate a timestamp a queue position or a priority of the pending request.

In some implementations the master PTT server may send a first subscribe request to the first group PTT server. In response to the first subscribe request the master PTT server may receive a first notify message. The first notify message may identify the first group of PTT clients. In some implementations the first notify message may include metadata of the first group of PTT clients. In some cases the metadata may indicate one or more pending requests to send media from members of the first group of PTT clients. The pending request s may be received at the first PTT server prior to the first invite message. In some cases the metadata may indicate at least one of a timestamp a queue position or a priority of each of the pending requests. In some cases the metadata may indicate a Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service MBMS bearer that is used by at least one PTT client of the first group of PTT clients for the first active group call. In some cases the first notify message may identify the authorized members of the group affiliated members of the group or the participants of the group call.

The master PTT server may send a second subscribe request to the second group PTT server. In response to the second subscribe request the master PTT server may receive a second notify message. The second notify message may identify the second group of PTT clients. In some cases the master PTT server may receive a subscribe request from the first group PTT server. In response to the subscribe request the master PTT server may send a first notify message. The first notify message may identify the second group of PTT clients. In some cases the master PTT server may send a second notify message. The second notify message may identify that a PTT client has joined or left the merged group call.

In some implementations the second notify message may include metadata of the second group of PTT clients. In some cases the metadata may indicate one or more pending requests to send media from members of the second group of PTT clients. The pending request s may be received at the second PTT server prior to the second invite message. In some cases the metadata may indicate at least one of a timestamp a queue position or a priority of each of the pending requests. In some cases the metadata may indicate a Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service MBMS bearer that is used by at least one PTT client of the second group of PTT clients for the second active group call. In some cases the second notify message may identify the authorized members of the group affiliated members of the group or the participants of the group call.

In some implementations the master PTT server may be a different server than the first group PTT server or the second group PTT server. In some implementations the master PTT server may be the same server as the first group PTT server or the second group PTT server.

Merging active group calls according to methods and systems described herein may provide one or more advantages. For example the queued request from the request queues of the first group call and the second group call are transferred to the master PTT server. The request queue may include the request from the PTT clients that are requesting permission to send media. The master PTT server may obtain the information of the pending requests received prior to the formation of the merged group call by the first group call and the second group call. The master PTT server may process these pending requests in the merged group call. The merged group call may include the PTT clients that are currently participating in the first group call and the second group call without including the PTT clients that are not currently participating in the first and second group calls. In some cases the authorized members of a group might be very large but the actual affiliated members and active participants in the call may be much smaller so it is an advantage that there is no disruption of the ongoing group call when regrouping takes place. In addition the master PTT server may also obtain the information of the pending requests in the first and second group calls and may process these pending requests in the merged call and consolidate the pending requests from the first group call with the pending request from the second group call according to the timestamps relative queue positions or and priorities of the requesting participants from both group calls. Furthermore using an MBMS channel to send media data from the master PTT server to the PTT clients in the merged group call may save resources and improve efficiency of the communication system.

At a high level the example wireless communication system includes a wireless communication network which includes or is communicably coupled with a first group PTT server a second group PTT server and a master PTT server . The example wireless communication system also includes User Equipments UEs and UEs . In some cases each of the UEs and UEs may include a PTT client. The wireless communication system may also include UEs that are non wireless devices such as a PTT Dispatch Console that may be connected to the wireless network using a fixed access technology such as Ethernet or a wireless local area network WLAN . A PTT client may represent an application set of applications software software modules hardware or combination thereof that can be configured to communicate with a PTT server for PTT services. As illustrated the UEs are included in the first group and the UEs are included in the second group . In some cases the first group has a first ongoing group call that is participated in by the UEs and the second group has a second ongoing group call that is participated in by the UEs 

The example wireless communication system also includes a first group PTT server that hosts the first group call a second group PTT server that hosts the second group call and a master PTT server that performs the floor control arbitration for the merged group call. In some cases a PTT server e.g. the first group PTT server the second group PTT server or the master PTT server may provide a participating function controlling function terminating function or a combination thereof for PTT service.

In some cases a PTT server may provide a participating function for an associated PTT client. In these or other cases the PTT server may be in the same service domain as the associated PTT client. Example of a service domain may be a network or a portion of a network. For example the PTT server may be an application server in the home core network of a PTT client. The PTT server may have access to the associated PTT client s configurations and settings. The PTT server may also perform a media replication function a traffic optimization function or a combination thereof for the associated PTT client.

In some cases a PTT server may provide a controlling function for a group call. In these or other cases the PTT server may act as the host of the group call. The PTT server may perform the Floor control arbitration function e.g. the media burst control or floor control function to receive and arbitrate requests to send media in a group call. The PTT server may also perform a media replication function a traffic optimization function or a combination thereof for the group call.

In some cases the PTT servers that perform the participating function and the controlling function may be collocated in the same entity. For example the first group PTT server may perform both the participating function and the controlling function. Alternatively the PTT servers that perform the participating function and the controlling function may be located separately in the network architecture. In some cases as illustrated the first group PTT server the second group PTT server and the master PTT server may be located in the same wireless network. Alternatively the first group PTT server the second group PTT server and the master PTT server may be located in different wireless networks.

In some cases the PTT servers and the PTT clients may be implemented in accordance with the PTT over Cellular PoC or Push to Communicate for Public Safety PCPS standard. The PoC and PCPS standards were developed by Open Mobile Alliance OMA to provide PTT service over Internet Protocol IP based cellular networks. In some cases the PTT servers and the PTT clients may be implemented in accordance with the Mission Critical PTT MCPTT standard under development by 3GPP.

In operation the master PTT server receives a request to merge the UEs in the first group and the UEs in the second group . The request may include an identifier for the first group and an identifier for the second group . The master PTT server sends a first invite message to the first group PTT server . The first invite message may include an indication that if the first group is involved in an active call then the master PTT server requests to act as the master PTT server for the call and that it should be sent requests for the floor and will control which PTT clients of the first group are granted the floor. In some cases the indication may be encoded using Extensible Markup Language XML . Alternatively or in combination the indication may be encoded in one or more existing or new header fields in the invite message. In response to the first invite message the master PTT server receives a first response message. The first response message may indicate that the first group has an active group call. In some cases the indication that the group is currently in an active group call may be encoded using Extensible Markup Language XML . Alternatively or in combination the indication may be encoded in one or more existing or new header fields in the response message. The first response message may indicate that the first group PTT server accepts the request of the master PTT server to be the master PTT server for the call. In some cases the indication the first group PTT server accepts the request of the master PTT server to be the master PTT server for the call may be encoded using Extensible Markup Language XML . Alternatively or in combination the indication may be encoded in one or more existing or new header fields in the response message. The master PTT server sends a second invite message to the second group PTT server . The second invite message may include an indication that if the second group is involved in an active call then the master PTT server requests to act as the master PTT server for the call and that it should be sent requests for the floor and will control which PTT clients of the second group are granted the floor. In some cases the indication may be encoded using Extensible Markup Language XML . Alternatively or in combination the indication may be encoded in one or more existing or new header fields in the invite message. In response to the second invite message the master PTT server receives a second response message. The second response message may indicate that the second group has an active group call. The second response message may indicate that the second group PTT server accepts the request of the master PTT server to be the master PTT server for the call. In some cases the indication that the group is currently in an active group call may be encoded using Extensible Markup Language XML . Alternatively or in combination the indication may be encoded in one or more existing or new header fields in the response message. The master PTT server may perform the floor control arbitration function for a merged PTT group call that may be participated in by the UEs and the UEs . The first group PTT server and the second group PTT server may send the pending requests of the first group and the second group to the master PTT server . The master PTT server processes floor control requests for the merged group call and determines which PTT client in either the first group or the second group is granted the floor next.

In some implementations the master PTT server may create a request queue for the merged group call. In some cases if the master PTT server is the same server as the first group PTT server or the second group PTT server the existing request queue of the first group or the existing request queue of the second group may be updated or replaced to become the request queue of the merged group call.

In some implementations the master PTT server may contact the first group PTT server and the second group PTT server to inform that the PTT server is the master PTT server. The first group PTT server and the second group PTT server may then send the media and request queue information to the master PTT server . The group PTT server or may also send the information of the PTT clients in the group to the master PTT server for example the roles priorities and privileges of the PTT clients. In some public safety use cases the role priority or privilege of a PTT client may depend on the type of incident the PTT client is serving or the PTT client s overall shift role. The group PTT server may also send the information whether a PTT client is currently participating in the group call to the master PTT server . The master PTT server makes the decision and indicates to the first group PTT server and the second PTT group server the PTT client that is granted permission to send media.

In some implementations a PTT client may like to have information of other PTT clients in the merged group call. To achieve this the master PTT server sends a subscribe request to the group PTT server and . The group PTT server or may provide this information to the master PTT server in notify messages. The master PTT server may provide the group PTT server or with information of the PTT clients in other groups. The group PTT server or may provide this information to its hosted PTT clients when requested by the PTT clients. This is achieved by PTT server and sending a subscribe request to the master PTT server and the master PTT server providing this information to the master PTT server in notify messages. In some implementations the PTT client may send the request for information of other PTT clients in the merged group call directly to the master PTT server . The PTT client may obtain information of the other PTT clients in the merged call from the master PTT server . In some implementations the master PTT server may indicate to a PTT client that it can request the information of other PTT clients in the merged group call directly from the master PTT server .

Turning to a general description of the elements a UE may be referred to as a mobile electronic device user device mobile station subscriber station portable electronic device mobile communications device wireless modem PTT dispatch console or wireless terminal. Examples of a UE e.g. the UEs and the UEs may include a cellular phone personal data assistant PDA smart phone PTT dispatch console laptop tablet personal computer PC pager portable computer portable gaming device wearable electronic device or other mobile communications device having components for communicating voice or data via a wireless communication network. The wireless communication network may include a wireless link over at least one of a licensed spectrum and an unlicensed spectrum.

Other examples of a UE include mobile and fixed electronic devices. A UE may include a Mobile Equipment ME device and a removable memory module such as a Universal Integrated Circuit Card UICC that includes a Subscriber Identity Module SIM application a Universal Subscriber Identity Module USIM application or a Removable User Identity Module R UIM application. The term UE can also refer to any hardware or software component that can terminate a communication session for a user. In addition the terms user equipment UE user equipment device user agent UA user device and mobile device can be used synonymously herein.

The wireless communication network may include one or a plurality of radio access networks RANs other access networks such as fixed Ethernet or IEEE 802.11 WLAN core networks CNs and external networks. The RANs may comprise one or more radio access technologies. In some implementations the radio access technologies may be Global System for Mobile communication GSM Interim Standard 95 IS 95 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS CDMA2000 Code Division Multiple Access Evolved Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Long Term Evaluation LTE or LTE Advanced. In some instances the core networks may be evolved packet cores EPCs .

A RAN is part of a wireless telecommunication system which implements a radio access technology such as UMTS CDMA2000 3GPP LTE and 3GPP LTE A. In many applications a RAN includes at least one base station. A base station may be a radio base station that may control all or at least some radio related functions in a fixed part of the system. The base station may provide radio interface within their coverage area or a cell for a UE to communicate. The base station may be distributed throughout the cellular network to provide a wide area of coverage. The base station directly communicates with one or a plurality of UEs other base stations and one or more core network nodes.

While elements of are shown as including various component parts portions or modules that implement the various features and functionality nevertheless these elements may instead include a number of sub modules third party services components libraries and such as appropriate. Furthermore the features and functionality of various components can be combined into fewer components as appropriate.

In some implementations a new PTT server is assigned as the master PTT server for the merged group call and the PTT servers of group calls act as group PTT servers . In some cases one of the PTT servers of group calls is assigned as the master PTT server . The moderated PTT group call mechanisms defined in OMA TS PoC System Description V2 1 could be enhance to be used to allow the master PTT server to act as the moderator and the group PTT servers would act similarly to the PTT server in a moderated PTT call see OMA TS PoC System Description V2 1 . The moderated media burst control messages could be enhanced to be used to allow the master PTT server to receive requests to send media and to grant the request to the PTT clients in the merged group call.

In some implementations the merged group call can be demerged. For example the dispatcher may send a request to the master PTT server indicating that the merged groups are to be demerged. The master PTT server may send a request to each of the group PTT servers indicating that the merged group call is to be demerged. The master PTT server may provide the group PTT servers with the request queue associated with each of the groups. The master PTT server may send a Bye request to each of the group PTT servers indicating that the master PTT server is leaving the call.

The data flow diagram also includes a group PTT controlling server X that provides a controlling function for an active group call X. In some cases another group of PTT clients e.g. the group X may participate in the active group call X. For example as illustrated the group X may include a PTT client B . The data flow diagram also includes a PTT participating server B that provides a participating function for the PTT client B . In some cases the group PTT controlling server X and the PTT participating server B may be implemented on the same PTT server. In these or other cases the messages between the group PTT controlling server X and the PTT participating server B shown in the data flow diagram may be omitted.

The data flow diagram also includes a master PTT controlling server that provides a controlling function for the merged group call of the active group call X and the active group call X. In some cases the master PTT controlling server is a different server than the group PTT controlling server X or the group PTT controlling server X . In some cases the master PTT controlling server is the same server as the group PTT controlling server X or the group PTT controlling server X . In these or other cases the messages between the group PTT controlling server X and the master PTT controlling server or the messages between the group PTT controlling server X and the master PTT controlling server shown in the data flow diagram may be omitted.

As shown in before operation both the active group calls X and X are ongoing. At operation the PTT client A sends a request to the master PTT controlling server to request the merge of the active group call X and the active group call X. In some cases the request may be a Refer request. The request may request the master PTT controlling server to send an invite message to each of the group PTT controlling server X and the group PTT controlling server X with a join indication indicating that it is requesting to join the call and requesting to act as the master floor control arbitrator for the merged group call. In some cases the request may include an identifier for the group X and an identifier for the group X. Examples of the identifier may include a Uniform Resource Indicator URI or any other group identity indicators. In some cases the URI may be a string of characters used to identify the group. In some cases the identifier may be included in a Refer To header field of a Refer request. In some cases the request may be sent by an authorized PTT client in the group X or the group X e.g. the PTT client A as illustrated. Alternatively or in combination the request may be sent by a dispatcher that is neither in the group X nor in the group X. Alternatively or in combination the request at operation may be sent by a Group Management Server based upon creation of merged group of X and X in the Group Management Server in order to merge the group calls of X and X.

At operation the master PTT controlling server sends an OK response to the PTT client A . In some cases the OK response indicates that the master PTT controlling server has received the request.

At operation the master PTT controlling server sends an invite message to the group PTT controlling server X . The invite message may include a join indication indicating that it is requesting to join the call and requesting to act as the master floor control arbitrator for the merged group call. The invite message may also include the identifier of the group X. The identifier of the group X may be included in a Request URI field of the invite message. In some case the invite message may indicate that the sending PTT server will be the master PTT controlling server and the receiving PTT server will be the group PTT controlling server. The master PTT controlling server may also provide an address e.g. an IP address for the group PTT controlling server to forward media and requests to send media. In responding to the invite message at operation the group PTT controlling server X sends an OK response to the master PTT controlling server . The OK response may contain an indication that PTT controlling server X accepts the request of the master PTT controlling server to perform the floor control arbitration for the merged group call.

At operation the master PTT controlling server sends an invite message to the group PTT controlling server X . The invite message may include a join indication. The invite message may also include the identifier of the group X. The identifier of the group X may be included in a Request URI field of the invite message. In responding to the invite message at operation the group PTT controlling server X sends an OK response to the master PTT controlling server . The OK response may contain an indication that PTT controlling server X accepts the request of the master PTT controlling server to perform the floor control arbitration for the merged group call.

At operation the group PTT controlling server X sends a moderator burst request to the master PTT controlling server . The moderator burst request is used by the group PTT controlling server X to send an indication of a pending request to send media to the master PTT controlling server . In some implementations the moderator burst request may include information of a pending request that was received at the group PTT controlling server X prior to receiving the invite message to merge the group calls. The moderator burst request may include an indication of the identity of the PTT Client that sent the pending request. The moderator burst request may also include the information of the pending request. Information of a pending request may include the timestamp of the request the priority of the request and a queue position of the request. The timestamp may indicate the time when the pending request is received. The priority may indicate the priority of the request which may depend on the role and priority of the PTT client that sent the request or the nature of the request e.g. an emergency . The queue position may indicate the position of the pending request in the request queue. The group PTT controlling server X may maintain a request queue for the pending requests from the PTT clients in the group X. The group PTT controlling server X may also maintain multiple request queues for the requests. In some cases one moderator burst request message may include information of multiple pending requests.

In some implementations the moderator burst request may also include an identification of the MBMS bearer used by the PTT client that sent the pending request to receive media. The identification of the MBMS bearer may include a Temporary Multicast Group Identity TMGI . By providing the MBMS bearer information the master PTT controlling server may send the media directly to the PTT client without routing through the group PTT controlling server X . In some cases the master PTT controlling server may establish a new MBMS bearer with a new key or a new TMGI and send an indication to the PTT clients in the merged group to move media transmission to the newly established MBMS bearer. Alternatively the master PTT controlling server may utilize the existing MBMS bearers to deliver media to the merged group.

At operation in responding to the moderator burst request the master PTT controlling server sends a moderator burst request confirm message to the group PTT controlling server X to acknowledge the receipt of the moderator burst request. In some cases the moderator burst request confirm message may be sent using a Real Time Control Protocol RTCP application APP packet. Alternatively or in combination the media burst request message may be sent using Binary Floor Control Protocol BFCP .

At operation the group PTT controlling server X sends a moderator burst request to the master PTT controlling server . The moderator burst request is used by the group PTT controlling server X to send an indication of a pending request to send media to the master PTT controlling server . In some implementations the moderator burst request includes information of a pending request that was received at the group PTT controlling server X prior to receiving the invite message to merge the group calls. The moderator burst request may include an indication of the identity of the PTT Client that sent the pending request. The moderator burst request may also include the information of the pending request such as the timestamp of the request the priority of the request a queue position of the request and an identification of the MBMS bearer used by the PTT client that sent the pending request. At operation in responding to the moderator burst request the master PTT controlling server sends a moderator burst request confirm message to the group PTT controlling server X to acknowledge the receipt of the moderator burst request.

At operation the group PTT controlling server X may send a moderator burst request to the master PTT controlling server to indicate a second pending request of the group X which was received at the group PTT controlling server X before the calls were merged. At operation in responding to the moderator burst request the master PTT controlling server sends a moderator burst request confirm message to the group PTT controlling server X .

At operation the group PTT controlling server X may send a moderator burst request to the master PTT controlling server to indicate a second pending request of the group X which was received at the group PTT controlling server X before the calls were merged. At operation in responding to the moderator burst request the master PTT controlling server sends a moderator burst request confirm message to the group PTT controlling server X .

At operation the group PTT controlling server X may send a moderator burst request to the master PTT controlling server to indicate a third pending request of the group X which was received at the group PTT controlling server X before the calls were merged. At operation in responding to the moderator burst request the master PTT controlling server sends a moderator burst request confirm message to the group PTT controlling server X .

In the example illustrated in the group PTT controlling server X has three pending requests prior to receiving the invite message to merge the group calls and the group PTT controlling server X has two pending requests. Therefore the group PTT controlling server X sends three moderator burst requests to transfer the pending requests to the master PTT controlling server and the group PTT controlling server X sends two moderator burst requests to transfer the pending requests to the master PTT controlling server .

In some implementations after receiving the pending requests from the group PTT controlling server X and the group PTT controlling server X the master PTT controlling server may create a request queue for the merged group. In some cases the master PTT controlling server may create the request queue of the merged group prior to receiving the pending requests from the group PTT controlling server X and the group PTT controlling server X . The master controlling server may create the request queue for the merged group at any time after receiving the request to merge group calls. By receiving information of the pending requests such as timestamp queue position and priority the master controlling server can place these requests in the queue ordered appropriately with the pending requests in the active group calls X and X and process accordingly.

The master PTT controlling server may determine to grant the request of the PTT client A in the group X. At operation the master PTT controlling server may send a moderator burst granted message to the group PTT controlling server X . The moderator burst granted message may be sent using an RTCP APP packet or BFCP. The moderator burst granted message may include the indication of the PTT client that is granted permission to send media. The group PTT controlling server X may obtain the PTT client information from the moderator burst granted message. After determining that the PTT client A is in the group X at operation the group PTT controlling server X may send a media burst granted message to the PTT participating server A which may further forward the media burst granted message to the PTT client A at operation . After receiving the media burst granted message the PTT client may start to send media to the group PTT controlling server X which may further forward the media to all the PTT clients in the merged group call.

At operation the master PTT controlling server may also send a moderator burst granted message to the group PTT controlling server X which includes the information of the PTT client that is granted permission to send media. After receiving the moderator burst granted message the group PTT controlling server X determines that the PTT client A that is granted permission to send media is not in the group X. In response to the determination at operation the group PTT controlling server X sends a media burst taken messages to the PTT participating server B which may further forward the media burst taken message to the PTT client B at operation to indicate that the permission to send media is granted to another PTT client in the merged group call. The media burst taken message may indicate the identity of the PTT Client granted permission to send media. The media burst taken message may be sent using an RTCP APP packet or BFCP. In some implementations the group PTT controlling server X and the group PTT controlling serer X may send a media burst taken message to each of the PTT clients in the merged group call except the PTT client that is granted permission to send media. In some implementations operation and operation as well as other operations can be concurrent simultaneous or overlapping events.

At operation the PTT client B that has media to transmit sends a media burst request to the group PTT controlling server X to request permission to send media. At operation the group PTT controlling server X sends a moderator burst request to the master PTT controlling server to indicate the request from the PTT client B requesting permission to send media. In responding to the moderator burst request at operation the master PTT controlling server sends a moderator burst request confirm message to the group PTT controlling server X to acknowledge the receipt of the moderator burst request. The master PTT controlling server may grant the PTT client B permission to send media by sending a moderator burst granted message to the group PTT controlling server X .

At block the master PTT server may send a first invite message to a first group PTT server. The first group PTT server may host the first active group call. In response to the first invite message at block the master PTT server may receive a first response message from the first group PTT server. At block the master PTT server may send a second invite message to a second group PTT server. The second group PTT server may host the second active group call. In response to the second invite message at block the master PTT server may receive a second response message from the second group PTT server. At block the master PTT server may host a merged PTT group call. The first group of PTT clients and the second group of PTT clients may participate in the merged PTT group.

At block the master PTT server may receive a moderator media burst request from the first group PTT server. The moderator media burst request may indicate a pending request to send media. The pending request may be received at the first group PTT server prior to the receiving of the request to merge the first and the second active group calls. At block the master PTT server may send a moderator media burst grant message. The moderator media burst grant message may grant the pending request. In some cases the moderator media burst request may indicate a MBMS bearer that is used by at least one PTT client of the first group of PTT clients for the first active group call. In some cases the moderator media burst request may indicate a timestamp a queue position or a priority of the pending request.

At operation the master PTT controlling server sends an invite message to the group PTT controlling serve X . This is the same invite message as in operation . In responding to the invite message at operation the group PTT controlling serve X may send an OK response to the master PTT controlling server . This is the same OK response as in operation . At operation the master PTT controlling server sends an invite message to the group PTT controlling serve X . This is the same invite message as in operation . In responding to the invite message at operation the group PTT controlling serve X may send an OK response to the master PTT controlling server . This is the same OK response as in operation .

At operation the master PTT controlling server may send a subscribe request to the group PTT controlling server X to request the information of the PTT clients in the active group call X. At operation the group PTT controlling server X may send a notify message to the master PTT controlling server providing information about the PTT clients in the active group call X. In some cases the notify message may include the PTT clients that are currently participating in the active group call X. In some cases a subsequent notify message may include information that indicates that a PTT client has left or joined the active group call X. At operation the master PTT controlling server may send a subscribe request to the group PTT controlling server X to request the information of the PTT clients in the active group call X. At operation the group PTT controlling server X may send a notify message to the master PTT controlling server providing information about the PTT clients of the active group call X. In some cases the notify message may include the PTT clients that are currently participating in the active group call X. In some cases a subsequent notify message may include information that indicates that a PTT client has left or joined the active group call X. This enables the master PTT controlling server to obtain information about all of the PTT clients in the merged group call. A PTT client may obtain information of other PTT clients in the merged group call by sending a subscribe request to the master PTT controlling server and receiving a notify message from the master PTT controlling server .

Alternatively or in combination at operation the group PTT controlling server X may send a subscribe request to the master PTT controlling server to request the information of the PTT clients in the active group call X. At operation the master PTT controlling server may send a notify message to the group PTT controlling server X providing information about the PTT clients in the active group call X. In some cases the notify message may include the PTT clients that are currently participating in the active group call X. For each group member the notify message may include the identity of the member e.g. the Session Initiation Protocol SIP URI of the member and a status indicator. The status indicator may be set to active for the members that are currently participating in the group call X. The status indicator may be set to inactive for the members that are not currently participating in the group call X. The status indicator may be set to affiliated for the members that are affiliated but not currently participating in the group call X. In some cases a subsequent notify message may include information that indicates that a PTT client has left or joined the active group call X. At operation the group PTT controlling server X may send a subscribe request to the master PTT controlling server to request the information of the PTT clients in the active group call X. At operation the master PTT controlling server may send a notify message to the group PTT controlling server X providing information about the PTT clients in the active group call X. For each group member the notify message may include the identity of the member e.g. the Session Initiation Protocol SIP URI of the member and a status indicator. The status indicator may be set to active for the members that are currently participating in the group call X. The status indicator may be set to inactive for the members that are not currently participating in the group call X. The status indicator may be set to affiliated for the members that are affiliated but not currently participating in the group call X. In some cases the notify message may include the PTT clients that are currently participating in the active group call X. In some cases a subsequent notify message may include information that indicates that a PTT client has left or joined the active group call X. In some implementations the group PTT controlling server X and the group PTT controlling serve X may have information of the PTT clients in the merged group call. A PTT client of the group X may obtain information of the PTT clients in the active group call X by sending a subscribe request to and receiving a notify message from the group PTT controlling server X . A PTT client of the group X may obtain information of the PTT clients in the active group call X by sending a subscribe request to and receiving a notify message from the group PTT controlling server X .

The computer can serve as a client network component a server a database or other persistency and or any other component of the system . For example the computer may be used to implement one or more functions of a PTT server or a PTT client. The illustrated computer is communicably coupled with a network . In some implementations one or more components of the computer may be configured to operate within a cloud computing based environment.

At a high level the computer is an electronic computing device operable to receive transmit process store or manage data and information associated with the system . According to some implementations the computer may also include or be communicably coupled with an application server e mail server web server caching server streaming data server business intelligence BI server and or other server.

The computer can receive requests over network from a client application e.g. executing on another computer and respond to the received requests by processing the said requests in an appropriate software application. In addition requests may also be sent to the computer from internal users e.g. from a command console or by another appropriate access method external or third parties other automated applications as well as any other appropriate entities individuals systems or computers.

Each of the components of the computer can communicate using a system bus . In some implementations any and or all the components of the computer both hardware and or software may interface with each other and or the interface over the system bus using an application programming interface API and or a service layer . The API may include specifications for routines data structures and object classes. The API may be either computer language independent or dependent and refer to a complete interface a single function or even a set of APIs. The service layer provides software services to the computer and or the system . The functionality of the computer may be accessible for all service consumers using this service layer. Software services such as those provided by the service layer provide reusable defined business functionalities through a defined interface. For example the interface may be software written in JAVA C or other suitable language providing data in Extensible Markup Language XML format or other suitable format. While illustrated as an integrated component of the computer alternative implementations may illustrate the API and or the service layer as stand alone components in relation to other components of the computer and or system . Moreover any or all parts of the API and or the service layer may be implemented as child or sub modules of another software module enterprise application or hardware module without departing from the scope of this disclosure.

The computer includes an interface . Although illustrated as a single interface in two or more interfaces may be used according to particular needs desires or particular implementations of the computer and or system . The interface is used by the computer for communicating with other systems in a distributed environment including within the system connected to the network whether illustrated or not . Generally the interface comprises logic encoded in software and or hardware in a suitable combination and operable to communicate with the network . More specifically the interface may comprise software supporting one or more communication protocols associated with communications such that the network or interface s hardware is operable to communicate physical signals within and outside of the illustrated system .

The computer includes a processor . Although illustrated as a single processor in two or more processors may be used according to particular needs desires or particular implementations of the computer and or the system . Generally the processor executes instructions and manipulates data to perform the operations of the computer . Specifically the processor executes the functionality required for merging active group calls.

The computer also includes a memory that holds data for the computer and or other components of the system . Although illustrated as a single memory in two or more memories may be used according to particular needs desires or particular implementations of the computer and or the system . While memory is illustrated as an integral component of the computer in alternative implementations memory can be external to the computer and or the system .

The application is an algorithmic software engine providing functionality according to particular needs desires or particular implementations of the computer and or the system particularly with respect to functionality required for merging active group calls. For example application can serve as one or more components applications described in . Further although illustrated as a single application the application may be implemented as multiple applications on the computer . In addition although illustrated as integral to the computer in alternative implementations the application can be external to the computer and or the system .

There may be any number of computers associated with or external to the system and communicating over network . Further the terms client user and other appropriate terminology may be used interchangeably as appropriate without departing from the scope of this disclosure. Moreover this disclosure contemplates that many users may use one computer or that one user may use multiple computers .

While operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be employed. Moreover the separation of various system components in the implementation described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all implementations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a signal software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various implementations as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods. Other items shown or discussed as coupled or directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made.

While the above detailed description has shown described and pointed out the fundamental novel features of the disclosure as applied to various implementations it will be understood that various omissions substitutions and changes in the form and details of the system illustrated may be made by those skilled in the art. In addition the order of method steps are not implied by the order they appear in the claims.

