---

title: System for the deployment and recovery of towed sensors
abstract: A Towed Body Recovery Drone facilitates the safe recovery of fragile towed sensors by surface craft. The TBRD comprises a buoyant sponson section sized to give the TBRD minimal buoyancy necessary to keep the sensor on the surface in a static condition. Structural elements and skids are arranged to protect the sensor from impact with rigid objects and allow the TBRD to be pulled aboard a surface craft by means of a ramp structure. A capture device manages the sensor's tow cable and restrains the sensor within the TBRD structure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09598149&OS=09598149&RS=09598149
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09598149
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160708
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties.

The present invention relates generally to a method of safe recovery of fragile towed sensors by surface craft.

Traditional methods for recovery of fragile towed sensors to surface craft utilize shipboard cranes or large A frame structures to lift the sensor clear of the water a safe distance from the surface craft. Once the sensor is clear of the water it can be oriented by mechanical means and secured or brought over the ship s deck and guided to an appropriate storage apparatus by riggers.

Significant effort is required on the part of operators or riggers to ensure that the towed body is recovered in a safe orientation due to motion induced in the towed body and the surface craft by the seas. The greatest danger to the towed body is posed by relative motion between the towed body and the surface craft or any of its lifting gear which could lead to impact between the towed body and the surface craft or any of its lifting gear. Damage can be caused due to the impact between an unprotected fragile feature on the towed body and a rigid structure.

Many methods to recover towed sensors have been fielded for example boom cranes or A frames. Some systems cannot be utilized in smaller surface craft. Even when available these methods suffer from deficiencies including but not limited to less than adequate functionality decreased stabilization of the sensor during recovery increased weight and size of recovery equipment and portability issues. Many are cumbersome to set up and are not suitable for deployment in the best angle suitable to the proper orientation or stabilization for safe recovery of the sensor. Additionally current methods may increase the risk of serious impact between rigid structures and the sensor due to instability of the sensor during recovery and lack of lifting capacity. This can lead to costly damage or require significant oversight from the ship s crew.

The prior art does not show the features of the present invention which provides for a more easily transported rugged lightweight and stable method of recovery which overcomes the limitations mentioned above. Accordingly those of skill in the art will appreciate the present invention which addresses those problems.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide a Towed Body Recovery Drone TBRD to facilitate the safe recovery of fragile towed sensors by surface craft incapable of employing traditional methods due to limited vessel weight capacity limited lift capacity or crew limitations.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a buoyant sponson section sized to give the TBRD minimal buoyancy necessary to keep the sensor on the surface in a static condition. A sponson as used herein is a buoyant section on a watercraft to increase stability and buoyancy.

Another object of the invention is to provide structural elements and skids arranged to protect the sensor from impact with rigid objects and allow the TBRD to be pulled aboard a rigid hulled inflatable boat RHIB or other surface craft by means of a ramp structure.

A further object of the invention is to provide a capture device responsible for managing the sensor s tow cable and restraining the sensor within the TBRD structure.

Another object of the invention is to provide drag features sized to generate a drag force greater than the excess buoyancy of the buoyant sponson section in order to facilitate subsurface capture of the sensor.

Still another object of the invention is to provide ramp structures for deployment and recovery of the TBRD from the RHIB.

Accordingly one embodiment comprises a system for deployment and recovery of a towed body from and to a watercraft using a towed body recovery drone TBRD . The TBRD includes a framework that defines a towed body receiving region therein that is surrounded by the framework. The framework includes an upper ribbed section and side ribbed sections. The TBRD has openings at the rear and bottom that lead to the towed body receiving region within the framework. The framework is sized larger than the towed body to extend around the towed body when the towed body is within the towed body receiving region. The TBRD includes at least one buoyant sponson section. The TBRD further includes a plurality of skids mounted to a lowermost position on the side ribbed sections that extend below the towed body. The TBRD includes a capture device including a cable guide mounted adjacent the upper ribbed section. The TBRD has drag members mounted to a rear of the framework. The drag members are oriented to produce a drag force on the TBRD as the TBRD is pulled toward the watercraft.

Implementations of the system may include at least one buoyant sponson section being secured to the upper ribbed section. The sponson section has buoyancy that supports the TBRD in water while the side ribbed portions extend into the water during operation so that the towed body receiving region is maintained underwater when the TBRD is floating in water. The drag members are oriented and sized to generate drag force with a downward component where the downward component of the drag force is greater than the buoyancy when towed above a predetermined tow speed.

The system further includes at least one buoyant sponson section being sized to give the TBRD a minimal buoyancy necessary to keep the sponson section on the surface of the water in a static condition whereupon the towed body receiving region is maintained underwater.

The system further includes a pivotal ramp structure mounted on the watercraft including a plurality of pivots and rods that pivot to a retrieval or deployment angle with respect to the watercraft s deck. The ramp structure can then pivot to position the TBRD substantially parallel to the watercraft.

The system further includes angled skid guides mounted to the front of the TBRD that are angled at the deployment angle when the TBRD is floating in water within about twenty degrees. The system has a framework that is open between the ribs forming the framework where most of the buoyancy of the TBRD is provided by a buoyant sponson section.

The system includes at least one buoyant sponson section which may comprise two sponson sections mounted to the side ribbed portions and extending along from front to rear substantially along the length of the TBRD and where the system is operable for recovery of the towed body without use of a crane.

Detailed descriptions of the preferred embodiment are provided herein. It is to be understood however that the present invention may be embodied in various forms. Therefore specific details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but rather as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to employ the present invention in virtually any appropriately detailed system structure or manner. The terms front rear sides bottom and the like refer to the operating positions which is the case when the TBRD is in the water behind a watercraft whereupon the front of the TBRD is closest to the watercraft as shown in and . So that during operation the front of the Towed Body Recovery Drone TBRD is generally facing the rear of a surface craft such as Rigid Hulled Inflatable Boat RHIB .

Recovery system comprises TBRD ramps and a watercraft such as but not limited to RHIB . It will be appreciated that the RHIB is a relatively small watercraft. There is no requirement for cranes which would necessitate the use of larger watercraft and where the use of cranes result in many recovery problems including increased risk of damage to the recovery of the towed body. In other words a small watercraft can be utilized to more safely more reliably and more conveniently recover the drone than larger watercraft utilizing a crane.

Turning now to the drawings and more particularly there is shown a perspective view of one possible embodiment of the TBRD aboard a RHIB . The TBRD is comprised of parallel buoyant sponson sections positioned above structural elements. In this case two buoyant sponson sections are utilized at the top sides of TBRD .

The sponson sections are mounted to a rigid framework which may have many configurations but generally describe a protected towed body receptacle region within TBRD . Rigid framework may comprise rods or tubular elements or solid posts or struts of any combination of these that interconnect to form a truss structure. The components of the truss structure of rigid framework comprise and upper ribbed section side ribbed sections and and a front ribbed section all of which surround and protect sensor within a receptacle region inside framework .

Rigid framework is open at the bottom with lower entrance See and rear entrance that allows sensor to be received into receptacle region utilizing the tow cable not shown to guide sensor into receptacle region from the bottom. Once secured within receptacle region sensor is protected on the sides and top from damage. Receptacle region may also be padded to further protect sensor .

Skids on the bottom of TBRD extend below receptacle region to protect the sensor from the bottom so long as TBRD is landed on a relatively flat surface or on ramps as discussed herein.

Accordingly TBRD is configured to protect a sensor from impact with rigid objects and allow the TBRD to be pulled aboard the RHIB by means of a ramp structure .

A capture device manages the sensor s tow cable not shown and restrains the sensor within the TBRD s structure utilizing the cable to pull sensor into receptacle region . Capture device may comprise cable guide which in this embodiment may comprise a pulley but could also be comprised of other types of cable guides. Cable guide is used to guide the tow cable which in turns pulls sensor through lower entrance and or rear entrance into receptacle region . Capture device may further comprise a clamp or clamping mechanism not shown through which the tow cable passes. The clamp can grab and hold the tow cable so that the RHIB can tow the TBRD and sensor together.

Drag members are positioned and sized to generate a drag force with a downward force component greater than the excess buoyancy force of the sponson section in order to facilitate subsurface capture of the sensor. This will occur at a tow speed that is greater than a predetermined tow speed that is preferably maintained if conditions permit. Drag members may comprise surfaces that engage the water and preferably provide some downward force.

In the present embodiment a plurality of substantially parallel ramps may be mounted on the back of the RHIB configured at a distance apart to correlate to the TBRD structural elements including skid guides and skids of the TBRD . The ramps may pivot at pivots and the like as indicated by deployment retrieval angle to be moveable from a retrieve position as indicated in to a secured position as indicated in by folding the ramps to lay substantially flat on or parallel to the deck surface of the RHIB . Skid guides are mounted on the front of TBRD and may be angled as indicated by angle to be approximately the same angle as angle plus or minus about twenty degrees.

In this way TBRD can be readily pulled in. Once TBRD is pulled in the ramps can be lowered and TBRD is then secured to RHIB for safe transport prior to deployment or after recovery of the sensor . The sensor is secured to the TBRD within the TBRD structure by cables from the capture device . The capture device restrains the sensor to the TBRD structure.

Turning to the relative positions of the support craft RHIB TBRD and sensor are shown either immediately after release of the sensor or immediately prior to capture of the sensor . During a deploy or retrieve evolution TBRD would be deployed via ramps pivoted upwardly behind the RHIB and towed by dedicated line s not shown .

In the deployment case TBRD is contained within the protected receptacle region prior to being deployed to a desired distance behind the RHIB the capture device disengages from the sensor so that the sensor can move downward and rearward through lower entrance and rear entrance and the sensor s tow cables extend allowing the sensor to perform a standard mission. Cable guide which may be a pulley may be utilized to guide the cable for this purpose. When the sensor is clear of the TBRD TBRD can be recovered to the RHIB by the dedicated TBRD tow lines. The TBRD may be hauled aboard the RHIB via ramps . The ramps may be raised or pivoted such that one end is lowered into the water allowing the TBRD to be hauled aboard the RHIB .

In the retrieval case TBRD is deployed to a desired distance behind the RHIB and the sensor tow cable is hauled in to retrieve the sensor . While the sensor is being hauled in the drag members on the TBRD mounted on the rear of framework maintain a reliable standoff and orientation between the RHIB and the TBRD with sensor secured to TBRD . The drag members are mounted on the trailing end of the TBRD structure perpendicular or generally perpendicular to the water surface which orientation provides drag and a downward force. If the sensor tow tension is large enough e.g. by increasing the speed of the tow vehicle TBRD will submerge due to drag on the TBRD and sensor tow tension until TBRD captures sensor at which point the sensor is allowed to surface under the buoyancy of TBRD . The TBRD and sensor are then hauled aboard the RHIB via ramps .

If the sensor tow tension in not sufficient to overcome TBRD s excess buoyancy the sensor is slowly brought to the surface and captured by TBRD in a near surface position. Although near surface capture is not ideal the limited buoyancy of TBRD will minimize the impact of wave action on the capture process and TBRD s relatively low mass will allow the motion of TBRD and the sensor to be coupled by the sensor tow cable and similar forces acting on both bodies minimizing impact to the sensor . Once the sensor is captured by TBRD TBRD and the sensor are dragged aboard the RHIB by the dedicated TBRD tow lines and ramps . The sensor is protected from impact within receptacle region during the process by the structural ribbed sections of TBRD . In one embodiment risk of damage to the sensor during recovery may be significantly mitigated by the addition of impact absorbing padding not shown to the TBRD structure specifically to the framework adjacent to receptacle region .

The risk to sensor being recovered is significantly reduced through the use of TBRD . Because of the relatively low mass of TBRD any impact between TBRD and the sensor has relatively low energy as compared to contact with a rigid watercraft. Furthermore the effects of such an impact are easily mitigated by padding the TBRD structure. Once the sensor has been captured by TBRD it is protected from impact during the recovery to the surface craft reducing or eliminating the need for personnel to directly intervene between the sensor and any rigid structures during the recovery process. Additionally the ramp features needed to bring TBRD and the captured sensor aboard the surface craft are lighter and less bulky than A frames or boom cranes used in the prior art to bring sensors aboard a surface craft. This combination of characteristics allows the TBRD to be used to deploy and recover sensitive sensors from surface craft that would be incapable of deploying the same sensor by traditional methods due either to limited crane lift capacity or crew limitations.

It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

