---

title: Optimization of communications with UAVS using terrestrial cellular networks
abstract: A UAV gateway may be used to assist in the optimization of communications between a UAV and a cellular wireless network. The UAV may include a steerable, multi-faceted antenna array. In one implementation, the UAV may receive, from the cellular wireless network, network description information, describing the physical state of the cellular wireless network. The network description information may include, for example, locations of base stations near the UAV, transmit power associated with the base stations (or with cells provided by the base stations), and/or the transmit antenna patterns associated with the base stations. The UAV may use this information to optimize its communications with the cellular network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09537561&OS=09537561&RS=09537561
owner: VERIZON PATENT AND LICENSING INC.
number: 09537561
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160121
---
 Unmanned Aerial Vehicles UAVs sometimes referred to as drones Remotely Piloted Aircraft RPA or Unmanned Aerial Systems UASs refer to aircraft without a human pilot aboard. The flight of a UAV may be controlled either autonomously e.g. by onboard and or remote computers or by remote control of a pilot. Proposals for using UAVs include using UAVs for the delivery of payloads e.g. packages and remote monitoring and or sensing e.g. monitoring of crops or pipelines .

In either autonomous or remote control operation it may be desirable that the UAV maintain network connectivity to the command and control location i.e. the physical location of the pilot and or control processes . Wireless cellular networks may be used to provide network connectivity to UAVs as existing wireless cellular networks already cover large geographical areas. Current wireless cellular networks however are designed and optimized for communications at ground level.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

Techniques described herein are used to optimize communications of a UAV to radio access network RAN of a cellular wireless network. The UAV may include a steerable multi faceted antenna array. In one implementation the UAV may receive from the cellular wireless network network description information describing the physical state of the cellular wireless network. The network description information may include for example locations of base stations near the UAV transmit power associated with the base stations or with cells provided by the base stations and or the transmit antenna patterns associated with the base stations. With this information the UAV may be informed of the existing cellular network coverage. The UAV may use this information to optimize its communications with the cellular network. For example the UAV may adaptively control the steerable antenna array to steer UAV transmissions in the direction of the base station to which the UAV is connected.

Additionally as described herein a UAV gateway device may be used to coordinate communications with the UAVs and to control the providing of the network description information to the UAVs. In some implementations the UAV gateway device may potentially be associated with multiple cellular network providers and may assist UAVs in determining an optimal cellular network provider for a particular flight path or segment of a flight path.

Additionally in some implementations the UAV may independently measure signal strength of different ones of the antenna facets. The measured signal strengths associated with the strongest of the antenna facets may be provided to the cellular wireless network. The cellular wireless network may make handover decisions based on the signal strength information corresponding to the strongest of the antenna facets and the UAV may use the signal strength information to determine the antenna facets to use when connecting to the network.

As is further shown in a base station such as a base station that operates as part of the RAN of a wireless cellular network may provide the radio interface for the UAV. A UAV gateway such as gateway associated with the network provider of the wireless cellular network or a gateway associated with multiple wireless cellular networks may assist in coordinating and controlling the operation of the UAV. The UAV gateway may for example maintain network description information relating to the geographical locations of the base stations and information describing radio transmission parameters of the base stations.

The UAV gateway may at certain times transmit the network description information to the UAV at 1.1 network option information . The UAV may use the network information to optimize connections to the base station or to other base stations associated with the cellular wireless network at 1.2 . For example the UAV may use information relating to the location of base stations in the vicinity of the UAV to steer the UAV antennas to point to the base stations. As another example the UAV may use information about coverage gaps in the network to adjust the flight path of the UAV and or to schedule data transmissions.

The UAV may additionally measure signal strength information corresponding to signals received from the cellular network on a per antenna facet and potentially per base station or cell basis at 1.3 per antenna facet signal strength info . The UAV may report the per antenna facet signal strength information to the base station such as by reporting only the signal strength information corresponding to the strongest antenna facet to the base station. The network may use the reported signal strength information to control handovers in the network at 1.4 handover signaling based on per antenna facets signal strength info .

UAVs may each include a remotely piloted aerial device such as a quadcopter or other helicopter based design a winged flying device a blimp etc. UAVs may be operated by UAV operators that may include public or private entities that may use UAVs to deliver payloads or to provide other UAV based services e.g. landscape monitoring or photography agricultural services etc. . UAVs may each include radio communication equipment that enables UAV to wirelessly communicate with a cellular wireless network such as one implemented by base stations and access network .

Base stations may include base stations for a wireless cellular network. Each base station may include one or more radio transceivers to provide wireless connections to mobile devices such as UAVs . In the context of a Long Term Evolution LTE network base station may be implemented by an Evolved Node B eNodeB . In the context of a Global System for Mobile GSM communications network base station may be implemented by a base transceiver station BTS . Base stations may also include small cells such as femtocells microcells etc. Base stations may generally function to provide an air radio interface over a large geographical area. Base stations may be geographically arranged to each provide coverage for a limited geographical area a cell . Mobile devices such as UAVs when moving in and out of the coverage area of particular base stations or cells may be handed off also called a handover operation to different base stations or cells to receive from the standpoint of the mobile device uninterrupted network coverage.

Access network may represent a network such as one implemented by the operator of base stations that is used to connect base stations and to provide network management and backhaul functionality. Access network may also provide connectivity to mobile devices such as UAVs and to external servers or networks such as to UAV operator .

In an implementation in which the wireless network includes an LTE based network access network may include an evolved packet core EPC network that operates based on a third generation partnership project 3GPP wireless communication standard. The EPC network may include one or more serving gateways SGWs mobility management entities MMEs and or packet data network gateways PGWs .

Access network may be additionally associated with UAV gateway . UAV gateway may include one or more computing devices that act to control or coordinate communications with UAVs . For example through UAV gateway UAV operators may register UAVs with access network obtain information relating to the state of access network e.g. expected network connectivity over a flight path and or control the operation of UAVs . UAV gateway may be implemented as part of access network and or external to access network . In one implementation UAV gateway may include an Application Programming Interface API that is designed to provide access to UAV operators to UAV commands relating to control of UAVs or to obtain information relating to the state of access network or base stations as the state pertains to a particular UAV . The commands relating to control may include for example commands that allow UAV operator to control the speed direction and height of UAVs .

UAV gateway may particularly include logic to provide UAVs with information that can be used to optimize control of antennas associated with UAV . In one implementation UAV gateway may store network description information such as the physical location of base stations information describing the current transmit power associated with base stations or cells provided by the base stations and or information describing the current radiation patterns or antenna patterns associated base stations . Based on the current location of a particular UAV UAV gateway may transmit network description information that is relevant to the particular UAV e.g. network description information relating to the base stations in a vicinity of UAV . UAV may use the network description information to optimize antenna settings of the multi faceted antenna array e.g. perform beamforming selection of particular antenna facets to use etc. .

UAV operators may each represent an operator of one or more UAVs . Through wireless communications with the UAVs UAV operators may control flight paths taken by UAVs and other operations performed by UAVs . UAV operators may manually or automatically or a combination of manual and automatic control the UAVs.

The quantity of devices and or networks illustrated in is provided for explanatory purposes only. In practice there may be additional devices and or networks fewer devices and or networks different devices and or networks or differently arranged devices and or networks than illustrated in . Alternatively or additionally one or more of the devices of environment may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another one or more of the devices of environment .

Antenna may be a multi faceted directional antenna that is capable of being controlled to radiate or receive power in specific directions. For example antenna may include an array of antenna facets that are arranged to point in different directions e.g. arranged around a curving region . Antenna may also be adaptive in that the directionality of antenna can be changed. For example antenna may be implemented as an antenna that can be controllably tilted about one or more axes. Alternatively or additionally antenna may be arranged as an array of fixed antenna facets in which beamforming may be performed to combine the antenna facets in a phased array in such a way that signals at particular angles experience constructive interference while others experience destructive interference. Beamforming is a known technique for changing the directionality of an adaptive antenna. Still further in some implementations different ones of the antenna facets can be selectively turned on and off.

Antenna controller may include a processor circuit or other logic to control antenna . For example when antenna is an antenna array antenna controller may change the directionality of the array by combining information received at different antenna elements in a way where the expected pattern of radiation is preferentially observed. Antenna controller may control antenna based on antenna directionality information received from processor memory .

Cellular modem may include a modem for use with the cellular wireless network. Cellular modem may particularly represent UE logic associated with an LTE network. Cellular modem may for example provide protocol and interface logic for communicating with access network .

Processor memory may represent a processor microprocessor or processing logic that may include processing circuitry to interpret and execute instructions that are stored in memory. The memory of processor memory may include any type of volatile or non volatile storage device that may store information and software instructions for execution by processor . For example the memory of processor memory may include a non transitory computer readable medium. The memory may include space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The software instructions may cause the processor to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Altimeter may include a meter to measure the altitude of UAV . The altitude measurement may be provided to processor memory . For the techniques described herein the altitude height of UAV above ground level may be desired. In some implementations altimeter may directly generate this value for processor memory . Alternatively or additionally altimeter may generate a value relative to for example sea level and processor memory potentially in conjunction with location information from GPS receiver may convert the altitude measurement to an altitude measurement relative to ground level.

GPS receiver may include a receiver to receive location and timing information from the GPS satellite system. UAV may use GPS receiver to determine the location of UAV . In some implementations other devices may alternatively or additionally be used to determine the location or orientation of UAV . For example UAV may include a gyroscope and or compass which may be used to determine the orientation of UAV .

Data structure as illustrated may be used by UAV gateway to track the current state of UAVs . Each record of data structure may correspond to information relating to a particular UAV UAV Identifier ID . The UAV ID field may include a value that uniquely identifies a particular UAV e.g. an International Mobile Station Equipment Identity IMEI International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI and or another type of identifier . UAVs or other devices associated with the access network may occasionally or periodically transmit an indication of the location of the UAV such as the geographic location of the UAV e.g. as obtained from altimeter and or GPS receiver . In some implementations the geographic location may also include an indication of the altitude of UAV . The UAV location field may thus be used by UAV gateway to store locations of UAVs . Other information relating to the state of UAVs may also be maintained in data structure . For example as illustrated an identifier of the current cell or base station base station ID to which the particular UAV is currently attached may also be stored in data structure . Additional information although not illustrated such as received signal strength information may also be tracked by UAV gateway .

A number of example records are shown for data structure . The first entry corresponds to a UAV that is associated with the unique identifier UAV and is currently at the geographical location corresponding to latitude 38 degrees longitude 77 degrees and altitude 100 feet. This UAV is attached to the base station identified as eNB Similarly for the second entry of data structure the UAV UAV is currently at the geographical location corresponding to latitude 50 degrees longitude 60 degrees and altitude 200 feet. This UAV is attached to the base station identified as eNB. 

Data structure illustrated in may be used by UAV gateway to maintain network description information such as network description information associated with base stations . Each record of data structure may correspond to information relating to a particular base station or to a cell provided by base station . As in a record may include a base station ID field that provides an identifier of a cell or base station. This field base station location may provide an indication of the geographic location of the base station e.g. geographic coordinate value . The field radiation antenna patter may provide information describing the direction or orientation of the radio signals or antennas for the base station. For example this field may indicate the tilt of the base station e.g. the orientation of the radio signal relative to horizontal an angular arc over which the radio signals are transmitted a height at which the antennas of the base station are positioned an azimuth angle of the radio signals or antennas of the base station and or other parameters describing the transmit radiation pattern of the base station or cell. The field transmit power may include one or more values quantifying the current transmit power that is being used by the base station.

Information corresponding to data structure may be received from a variety of sources. For example the base station locations or other static information relating to the topology of the wireless cellular network may be provided by administrators of UAV gateway or by other entities. Other information in data structure such as the information relating to the radiation antenna patterns and or the transmit power of the base stations may be periodically or occasionally received from base stations . For instance base stations may be implemented to transmit messages to UAV gateway to keep the UAV gateway up to date on the relevant network description information whenever one of the relevant parameters changes

A number of example records are shown for data structure . As shown the first record may be for the base station eNB and may include an indication of the location of the base station latitude 37 and longitude 77 . The radiation antenna pattern field may define the radiation pattern and or antenna orientation of base station eNB e.g. the tilt of the antenna is 10 degrees orientation azimuth NW and the transmit power field may indicate the corresponding transmit power at which the base station is currently transmitting e.g. 30 decibel milliwatts dBm . Similarly the second record in data structure may correspond to the base station eNB. The location of the base station may be at latitude 37 and longitude 78 the antenna tilt is 10 degrees and the primary orientation of the antenna may be South and the current transmit power may be 35 dBm.

As previously mentioned UAV may include a multi faceted antenna . UAV may separately measure and track the received signal strength from nearby base stations on a per antenna element per antenna facet basis. is a diagram illustrating an example data structure that may be used by UAV to store the received signal strength values. Although a number of fields are shown in data structure in other examples data structure may include fewer or additional fields.

Each record of data structure may correspond to signal strength information for a particular antenna facet and for a particular cell. A cell may correspond to particular communication band used by a particular base station. A single base station may simultaneously support multiple cells. As shown data structure may be used by UAV to store signal strength values for various antenna facet cell combinations. The cell facet field may correspond to a particular cell and antenna facet. The SiNR field may correspond to a Signal to Interference and Noise Ratio SiNR measured value for the particular cell facet and the RSSI field may correspond to a Received Signal Strength Indicator RSSI measured value for the particular cell facet.

In the example of data structure example SiNR and RSSI values are given for different combinations of cells and antenna facets for a particular UAV . For example for the cell facet combination Cell Facet the UAV may have determined the SiNR value as 10 decibel dB and the RSSI value as 85 dBm. Similarly for the cell facet combination Cell Facet the UAV may have determined the SiNR value as 25 dB and the RSSI value as 60 dBm.

Process may include receiving and storing the network description information block . The network description information may be received from for example base stations administrators associated with the wireless cellular network or from other sources. As previously mentioned the network description information may include for example the location of base stations in the network radiation and or antenna patterns associated with the base stations or with cells provided by the base stations the transmit power being used by the base stations or other information. The network description information may be stored in a data structure such as data structure .

Process may further include receiving a request from a UAV for communication optimization information block . The request may include the current location of the UAV e.g. a three dimension coordinate of the UAV . In some implementations the request may also include an indication of the cell to which the UAV is currently attached. Alternatively or additionally the cell to which the UAV is currently attached may be obtained by UAV gateway from other sources e.g. from base stations or other network devices in access network . In some implementations the request may include other information such as the current trajectory of the UAV and or the planned flight path of the UAV.

Process may further include based on the received location of the UAV determining relevant network description information block . The relevant network description information may generally be network description information that applies to base stations that are in the vicinity of the UAV. For example UAV gateway may select the network description information e.g. from data structure as information corresponding only to the cell to which the UAV is currently attached. In another possible implementation UAV gateway may select the network description information as the network description information e.g. from data structure corresponding to all cells or base stations within a certain range e.g. 1 mile of the current location of the UAV. Still further and in another possible implementation UAV gateway may select the network description information as the network description information corresponding to all base stations that potentially have a coverage area that overlaps a flight path of the UAV.

Process may further include transmitting the determined network description information to the UAV for optimization of the UAV s communication with the cellular network block . The UAV may for example use the base station location radiation antenna pattern and or transmit power information to adaptively control antenna of the UAV. For example the UAV may implement beam forming techniques to adaptively e.g. based on the current location of the UAV keep antenna pointed at the base station to which the UAV is attached. Alternatively or additionally for a multi faceted antenna the UAV may adaptively choose which antenna facets to use based on the current position of the base station relative to the UAV.

Process may include transmitting to UAV gateway the location of the UAV block . In some implementations other information such as the current cell to which the UAV is attached and or the received signal strength information may also be transmitted by the UAV. In one implementation the received signal strength information transmitted to UAV gateway may include the per antenna and per cell signal strength information e.g. as shown in . The UAV may transmit its location to UAV gateway periodically or occasionally during the flight of the UAV. Through this process UAV gateway may maintain relatively recent information on the current state of the UAV.

Process may further include transmitting a request to UAV gateway for network description information block . The request may include the current location of the UAV and may be transmitted using the wireless cellular network. As mentioned with respect to the description of process in response to the request UAV gateway may determine network description information that is relevant to the UAV e.g. in block . The determined network description information may be information relevant to the UAV s current location in the network.

Process may further include receiving by the UAV network description information from the UAV gateway block . The network description information may be used to optimize communications with the cellular network block . As previously mentioned the optimizations may include using beam forming techniques to adaptively e.g. based on the current location of the UAV keep antenna pointed at the base station to which the UAV is attached. Alternatively or additionally for a multi faceted antenna the UAV may adaptively choose which antenna facets to use based on the current position of the base station relative to the UAV. For example the UAV may choose the antenna facets that are pointed at the base station and or that receive the strongest signal strength measurements.

In the description of UAV gateway was described as transmitting the network description information to UAV in response to an explicit request from UAV . Alternatively or additionally UAV gateway may transmit the network description information at other times e.g. periodically in response to changes in the network description information that is relevant to a UAV in response to an estimation that the UAV has reached a certain way point etc. .

In some implementations in addition to providing the network description information to UAV UAV gateway may provide other information to UAV such as suggestions as to potential flight paths for UAV to optimize network connectivity of UAV . As another example in situations in which UAV provides UAV gateway with trajectory and or speed information relating to the UAV UAV gateway may provide a list of cell sites with potentially optimal connection times for each of the cell sites to the UAV. For example the list may include an indication that a first cell located at a first location can be optimally used during a first time duration and a second cell located at a second location can be optimally used during a second time duration.

At some point UAV may transmit a location of the UAV and identification of the currently connected cell site i.e. associated with base station to UAV gateway message . Message may be a request for network description information. In this example the network description information may include a list of cell sites that are in the vicinity of UAV or in a flight path of UAV and that UAV gateway determines to be optimal or desirable for UAV to form future connections. UAV gateway may make the determination of the optimal cell sites at based on for example information associated with data structure . For example a cell site may be determined to be optimal if the cell site provides good coverage in an area at which UAV is anticipated to travel. UAV gateway may transmit a list of the optimal cell sites and corresponding geographic locations of the cell sites to UAV message .

UAV may use the list of optimal cell sites and the corresponding locations of the cell sites to scan for the cell sites at . For example UAV may select particular antenna facets to use to scan particular cell sites based on the orientation of the facet with respect to the cell site e.g. for a particular cell site UAV may only use the antenna facet s that are facing the particular cell site . Based on the scanning UAV may optimally select future connections with cell sites and or may optimize the quality of the radio connection with the current cell at optimize connections with base stations . For instance the list of optimal cell sites and corresponding locations may enable UAV to obtain higher signal strength measurements associated with the cell sites than if UAV did not have the list of optimal cell sites and the corresponding locations of the cell sites. The signal strength measurements may be transmitted to base station and may be used in future handover decisions.

In implementations in which UAV provides its flight path to UAV gateway UAV gateway may analyze the flight path to determine potential poor connection or lost connection areas. UAV gateway may inform UAV of these areas.

In one implementation UAV may use the information from UAV gateway relating to the poor connection or lost connection areas to manage communications during the flight of UAV . For example before entering a poor connection or no connection area UAV may pause such as by performing a hover operation to communicate important data to UAV operators . As another example UAV may use the information relating to the poor connection or no connection areas to modify the flight path to avoid these areas.

In some implementations UAV may provide feedback to UAV gateway to assist UAV gateway in determining the UAV coverage map of the wireless cellular network. For example whenever UAV loses connection UAV may maintain information relating to the lost connection e.g. the start coordinate of the lost connection the coordinate of the UAV when a network connections is reestablished the height and coordinates of the UAV during the coverage outage and provide this information to UAV gateway when UAV reconnects to the network. UAV gateway may use this information to build a three dimensional coverage map for the wireless network.

Process may include measuring and tracking receive signal strength on a per cell and per antenna facet basis block . For example as discussed with reference to data structure UAV may measure and store signal strength values such as SiNR and RSSI values for each of the various antenna facet cell combinations that are detectable by UAV .

Process may further include transmitting as part of a network reporting procedure an indication of the strongest received signal strength block . UAV may select from the antenna facet cell combinations the combination that represents the strongest signal strength. For example UAV may select from data structure the strongest measurement s of signal strength and may report this value s to the base station to which the UAV is attached. In cellular networks handovers between base stations may be controlled by the network e.g. by the base station and by other network devices in access network .

Process may further include in response to a network initiated handover procedure selecting the optimal antenna facet s for communication block . The selection may be based on the per call and per antenna facet measurements. For example UAV may select the optimal antenna facet to use for communications in the new cell as the antenna facet that has the highest receive signal strength measurements for the new cell.

Bus may include one or more communication paths that permit communication among the components of device . Processor may include a processor microprocessor or circuitry that may include processing circuitry to interpret and execute instructions. Memory may include any type of dynamic storage device that may store information and instructions for execution by processor and or any type of non volatile storage device that may store information for use by processor .

Input component may include a mechanism that permits an operator to input information to device such as a keyboard a keypad a button a switch etc. Output component may include a mechanism that outputs information to the operator such as a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc.

Communication interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may include an Ethernet interface an optical interface a coaxial interface or the like. Communication interface may include a wireless communication device such as an infrared IR receiver a Bluetooth radio a cellular radio transceiver or the like. The wireless communication device may be coupled to an external device such as a remote control a wireless keyboard a mobile telephone etc. In some embodiments device may include more than one communication interface . For instance device may include an optical interface and an Ethernet interface.

Device may perform certain operations relating to one or more processes described above. Device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions stored in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may include space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device. The software instructions stored in memory may cause processor to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The foregoing description of implementations provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the possible implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice of the implementations. For example while a series of blocks have been described with regard to the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel. Similarly while series of communications have been described with regard to the order or nature of the communications may potentially be modified in other implementations.

The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement an embodiment is not limiting of the embodiment. Thus the operation and behavior of the embodiment has been described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware may be designed based on the description herein.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of the possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one other claim the disclosure of the possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

Further while certain connections or devices are shown in practice additional fewer or different connections or devices may be used. Furthermore while various devices and networks are shown separately in practice the functionality of multiple devices may be performed by a single device or the functionality of one device may be performed by multiple devices. Further multiple ones of the illustrated networks may be included in a single network or a particular network may include multiple networks. Further while some devices are shown as communicating with a network some such devices may be incorporated in whole or in part as a part of the network.

To the extent the aforementioned embodiments collect store or employ personal information provided by individuals it should be understood that such information shall be used in accordance with all applicable laws concerning protection of personal information. Additionally the collection storage and use of such information may be subject to consent of the individual to such activity for example through well known opt in or opt out processes as may be appropriate for the situation and type of information. Storage and use of personal information may be in an appropriately secure manner reflective of the type of information for example through various encryption and anonymization techniques for particularly sensitive information.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. An instance of the use of the term and as used herein does not necessarily preclude the interpretation that the phrase and or was intended in that instance. Similarly an instance of the use of the term or as used herein does not necessarily preclude the interpretation that the phrase and or was intended in that instance. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with the phrase one or more. Where only one item is intended the terms one single only or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

