---

title: Online banking digital wallet management
abstract: Embodiments are directed to digital wallet management. Embodiments initiate presentation of a digital wallet management interface, comprising initiating presentation of at least one digital wallet; and initiating presentation of at least one representation of at least one payment credential and at least one indication of which of the at least one digital wallets are associated with each of the at least one payment credentials.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09652764&OS=09652764&RS=09652764
owner: BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
number: 09652764
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160218
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 196 383 filed Mar. 4 2014 entitled Online Banking Digital Wallet Management the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

In the new technological age the security of personal information or the lack thereof has become an issue that concerns many people. As a result several business industries such as financial institutions have taken precautionary measures to ensure the safety and protection of their customers information. This is typically accomplished by verifying a user s identity prior to transferring any personal information using an electronic means.

Embodiments of the invention are directed to an apparatus for digital wallet management whereby the apparatus provides a user a comprehensive management platform for managing multiple digital wallets and their associated payment credentials where the apparatus includes a memory a processor and a module stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to initiate presentation of a digital wallet management interface comprising initiating presentation of at least one digital wallet and initiating presentation of at least one representation of at least one payment credential and at least one indication of which of the at least one digital wallets are associated with each of the at least one payment credentials.

In some embodiments the at least one representation of the at least one payment credential comprises a graphical object representing the at least one payment credential the at least one representation of the at least one digital wallet comprises a graphical object representing the at least one digital wallet and the at least one indication comprises a graphical link between the graphical object representing the at least one payment credential and the graphical object representing the at least one digital wallet. In some such embodiments the graphical link comprises an overlap of the graphical object representing the at least one payment credential with the graphical object representing the at least one digital wallet.

In some embodiments the module is further configured to receive user input selecting one of the at least one representations of the at least one payment credentials and receive user input selecting one of the at least one digital wallets for association with the selected at least one payment credential. In some such embodiments the module is further configured to initiate presentation of the selected payment credential and the selected digital wallet and at least one indication of association between the selected payment credential and the selected digital wallet.

In some embodiments the module is further configured to receive user input setting a usage limit for one of the at least one digital wallets. In some such embodiments the usage limit is a threshold spending limit for an aggregation of all the payment credentials associated with the digital wallet. In other such embodiments the usage limit is a threshold spending limit to be applied to each of the payment credentials associated with the digital wallet individually.

In some embodiments the usage limit is a threshold number of transactions for an aggregation of all the payment credentials associated with the digital wallet.

In some embodiments the usage limit is a threshold number of transactions applied to each of the payment credentials associated with the digital wallet individually.

In some embodiments the usage limit is a timing limit to be applied to an aggregation of all the payment credentials associated with the digital wallet.

In some embodiments the usage limit is a timing limit to be applied to each of the payment credentials associated with the digital wallet.

In some embodiments the interface is accessed by a customer authenticated through an online banking session administered by a financial institution also administering the digital wallet. In other embodiments the interface is accessed by a customer authenticated through a mobile banking application session administered by a financial institution also administering the digital wallet.

According to embodiments of the invention a method for digital wallet management whereby the apparatus provides a user a comprehensive management platform for managing multiple digital wallets and their associated payment credentials includes initiating presentation by a processor of a digital wallet management interface comprising initiating presentation of at least one digital wallet and initiating presentation of at least one representation of at least one payment credential and at least one indication of which of the at least one digital wallets are associated with each of the at least one payment credentials.

In some embodiments the at least one representation of the at least one payment credential comprises a graphical object representing the at least one payment credential the at least one representation of the at least one digital wallet comprises a graphical object representing the at least one digital wallet and the at least one indication comprises a graphical link between the graphical object representing the at least one payment credential and the graphical object representing the at least one digital wallet.

In some such embodiments the graphical link comprises an overlap of the graphical object representing the at least one payment credential with the graphical object representing the at least one digital wallet.

According to embodiments of the invention a computer program product for digital wallet management whereby the apparatus provides a user a comprehensive management platform for managing multiple digital wallets and their associated payment credentials the computer program product comprising a non transitory computer readable medium comprising code causing a first apparatus to initiate presentation of a digital wallet management interface comprising initiating presentation of at least one digital wallet and initiating presentation of at least one representation of at least one payment credential and at least one indication of which of the at least one digital wallets are associated with each of the at least one payment credentials.

In some embodiments the at least one representation of the at least one payment credential comprises a graphical object representing the at least one payment credential the at least one representation of the at least one digital wallet comprises a graphical object representing the at least one digital wallet and the at least one indication comprises a graphical link between the graphical object representing the at least one payment credential and the graphical object representing the at least one digital wallet.

In some embodiments the graphical link comprises an overlap of the graphical object representing the at least one payment credential with the graphical object representing the at least one digital wallet.

Embodiments of the present invention now may be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure may satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

In accordance with embodiments of the invention the term financial transaction or transaction refers to any transaction involving directly or indirectly the movement of monetary funds through traditional paper transaction processing systems i.e. paper check processing or through electronic transaction processing systems. Typical financial transactions include point of sale POS transactions automated teller machine ATM transactions internet transactions electronic funds transfers EFT between accounts transactions with a financial institution teller personal checks etc. When discussing that transactions are evaluated it could mean that the transaction has already occurred is in the processing of occurring or being processed or it has yet to be processed by one or more financial institutions. In some embodiments of the invention the transaction may be a customer account event such as but not limited to the customer changing a password ordering new checks adding new accounts opening new accounts etc.

In accordance with embodiments of the invention the term financial institution refers to any organization in the business of moving investing or lending money dealing in financial instruments or providing financial services. This includes commercial banks thrifts federal and state savings banks savings and loan associations credit unions investment companies merchants insurance companies and the like.

In accordance with embodiments of the invention the terms customer and user and consumer may be interchangeable. These terms may relate to a direct customer of the financial institution or person or entity that has authorization to act on behalf of the direct customer user or consumer i.e. indirect customer .

Various embodiments of the present invention relate to tokenization which is generally described in the area of financial transactions as utilizing a token e.g. an alias substitute surrogate or other like identifier as a replacement for sensitive account information and in particular account numbers. As such tokens or portions of tokens may be used as a stand in for a user account number user name pin number routing information related to the financial institution associated with the account security code or other like information relating to the user account. The one or more tokens may then be utilized as a payment instrument to complete a transaction. The one or more tokens may be associated with one or more payment devices directly or within one or more digital wallets associated with the payment devices. In other embodiments the tokens may be associated with electronic transactions that are made over the Internet instead of using a physical payment device. Utilizing a token as a payment instrument instead of actual account information and specifically an account number improves security and provides flexibility and convenience in controlling the transactions controlling accounts used for the transactions and sharing transactions between various users.

Tokens may be single use instruments or multi use instruments depending on the types of controls e.g. limits initiated for the token and the transactions in which the token is used as a payment instrument. Single use tokens may be utilized once and thereafter disappear are replaced or are erased while multi use tokens may be utilized more than once before they disappear are replaced or are erased.

Tokens may be 16 digit numbers e.g. like credit debit or other like account numbers may be numbers that are less than 16 digits or may contain a combination of numbers symbols letters or the like and be more than less than or equal to 16 characters. In some embodiments the tokens may have to be 16 characters or less in order to be compatible with the standard processing systems between merchants acquiring financial institutions e.g. merchant financial institution card association networks e.g. card processing companies issuing financial institutions e.g. user financial institution or the like which are used to request authorization and approve or deny transactions entered into between a merchant e.g. a specific business or individual user and a user. In other embodiments of the invention the tokens may be other types of electronic information e.g. pictures codes or the like that could be used to enter into a transaction instead of or in addition to using a string of characters e.g. numbered character strings alphanumeric character strings symbolic character strings combinations thereof or the like .

A user may have one or more digital wallets on the user s payment device. The digital wallets may be associated specifically with the user s financial institution or in other embodiments may be associated with a specific merchant group of merchants or other third parties. The user may associate one or more user accounts e.g. from the same institution or from multiple institutions with the one or more digital wallets. In some embodiments instead of the digital wallet storing the specific account number associated with the user account the digital wallet may store a token or allow access to a token e.g. provide a link or information that directs a system to a location of a token in order to represent the specific account number during a transaction. In other embodiments of the invention the digital wallet may store some or all of the user account information e.g. account number user name pin number or the like including the user account number but presents the one or more tokens instead of the user account information when entering into a transaction with a merchant. The merchant may be a business a person that is selling a good or service hereinafter product or any other institution or individual with which the user is entering into a transaction.

The digital wallet may be utilized in a number of different ways. For example the digital wallet may be a device digital wallet a cloud digital wallet an e commerce digital wallet or another type of digital wallet. In the case of a device digital wallet the tokens are actually stored on the payment device. When the device digital wallet is used in a transaction the token stored on the device is used to enter into the transaction with the merchant. With respect to a cloud digital wallet the device does not store the token but instead the token is stored in the cloud of the provider of the digital wallet or another third party . When the user enters into a transaction with a merchant transaction information is collected and provided to the owner of the cloud to determine the token and thus how the transaction should be processed. In the case of an e commerce digital wallet a transaction is entered into over the Internet and not through a point of sale terminal. As was the case with the cloud digital wallet when entering into a transaction with the merchant over the Internet the transaction information may be captured and transferred to the wallet provider e.g. in some embodiments this may be the merchant or another third party that stores the token and the transaction may be processed accordingly.

Specific tokens in some embodiments may be tied to a single user account but in other embodiments may be tied to multiple user accounts as will be described throughout this application. In some embodiments a single tokens could represent multiple accounts such that when entering into a transaction the user may select the token or digital wallet associated with the token and select one of the one or more accounts associated with the token in order to allocate the transaction to a specific account. In still other embodiments after selection of the token by the user the system may determine the best account associated with the token to use during the transaction e.g. most cash back most rewards points best discount or the like . In addition the tokens may be associated with a specific digital wallet or multiple digital wallets as desired by the institutions or users.

Moreover the tokens themselves or the user accounts individual users digital wallets or the like associated with the tokens may have limitations that limit the transactions that the users may enter into using the tokens. The limitations may include limiting the transactions of the user to a single merchant a group of multiple merchants merchant categories single products a group a products product categories transaction amounts transaction numbers geographic locations or other like limits as is described herein.

The token can be associated directly with the payment device or otherwise through one or more digital wallets associated with the payment device . For example the token may be stored on one or more payment devices directly and as such any transaction entered into by the user with the one or more payment devices may utilize the token. Alternatively the payment device may have one or more digital wallets stored on the payment device that allow the user to store one or more user account numbers or tokens associated with the user account numbers on the one or more digital wallets. The user may select a digital wallet or account within the digital wallet in order to enter into a transaction using a specific type of customer account. As such the digital wallets may be associated with the user s issuing financial institutions other financial institutions merchants with which the user enters into transactions or a third party institutions that facilitates transactions between users and merchants .

As illustrated in a tokenization service may be available for the user to use during transactions. As such before entering into a transaction the user may generate e.g. create request or the like a token in order to make a payment using the tokenization service and in response the tokenization service provides a token to the user and stores an association between the token and the user account number in a secure token and account database . The token may be stored in the user s payment device e.g. on the digital wallet or stored on the cloud or other service through the tokenization service . The tokenization service may also store limits e.g. geographic limits transaction amount limits merchant limits product limits any other limit described herein or the like associated with the token that may limit the transactions in which the user may enter. The limits may be placed on the token by the user or another entity e.g. client administrator person company or the like responsible for the transactions entered into by the user using the account associated with the token. The generation of the token may occur at the time of the transaction or well in advance of the transaction as a one time use token or multi use token.

After or during creation of the token the user enters into a transaction with a merchant using the payment device or payment instrument over the Internet . In some embodiments the user may use the payment device by itself or specifically select a digital wallet or user account stored within the digital wallet to use in order to enter into the transaction. The token associated with payment device digital wallet or user account within the wallet is presented to the merchant as payment in lieu of the actual user account number and or other user account information. The merchant receives the token multiple tokens and or additional user account information for the transaction. The merchant may or may not know that the token being presented for the transaction is a substitute for a user account number or other user account information. The merchant also captures transaction information e.g. merchant merchant location transaction amount product or the like related to the transaction in which the user is entering with the merchant .

The merchant submits the token as well as any user account information not substituted by a token and the transaction information for authorization along the normal processing channels also described as processing rails which are normally used to process a transaction made by the user using a user account number. In one embodiment of the invention the acquiring financial institution or any other institution used to process transactions from the merchant receives the token user account information and transaction information from the merchant . The acquiring financial institution identifies the token as being associated with a particular tokenization service through the token itself or user account information associated with the token. For example the identification of the tokenization service may be made through a sub set of characters associated with the token a routing number associated with the token other information associated with the token e.g. tokenization service name or the like. The acquiring financial institution may communicate with the tokenization service in order to determine the user account number associated with the token. The tokenization service may receive the token and transaction data from the acquiring financial institution and in response provide the acquiring financial institution the user account number associated with the token as well as other user information that may be needed to complete the transaction e.g. user name issuing financial institution routing number user account number security codes pin number or the like . In other embodiments if limits have been placed on the token the tokenization service may determine whether or not the transaction information meets the limits and either allows or denies the transaction e.g. provides the user account number or fails to provide the user account number . The embodiment being described occurs when the token is actually stored on the payment device . In other embodiments for example when the actual token is stored in a cloud the payment device may only store a link to the token or other token information that allows the merchant or acquiring financial institution to acquire the token from a stored cloud location.

If the acquiring financial institution receives the user account number from the tokenization service e.g. the tokenization service indicates that the transaction meets the limits then the acquiring financial institution thereafter sends the user account number the other user information and the transaction information directly to the issuing financial institution or otherwise indirectly through the card association networks . The issuing financial institution determines if the user has the funds available to enter into the transaction and if the transaction meets other limits on the user account and responds with approval or denial of the transaction. The approval runs back through the processing channels until the acquiring financial institution provides approval or denial of the transaction to the merchant and the transaction between the merchant and the user is completed. After the transaction is completed the token may be deleted erased or the like if it is a single use token or stored for further use if it is a multi use token.

Instead of the process described above in which the acquiring financial institution requests the token from the tokenization service in some embodiments the tokenization service may receive the transaction request and transaction information from the merchant or acquiring financial institution . Instead of providing the account number to the acquiring financial institution the tokenization service may send the transaction request and transaction information to the issuing financial institution directly or indirectly through the payment association networks .

The embodiment illustrated in prevents the user account number and other user information from being presented to the merchant however the tokenization service acquiring financial institution the card association networks and the issuing financial institution may all utilize the actual user account number and other user information to complete the transaction.

The user may enter into a transaction with the merchant using a payment device or a payment instrument through the Internet . In one embodiment the user may enter into the transaction with a token associated with the payment device itself or a payment instrument through the Internet . In other embodiments a specific digital wallet and or a specific account within the digital wallet may be selected for a particular merchant with whom the user wants to enter into a transaction. For example the user may select wallet to enter into a transaction with merchant and token to utilize a specific account. The merchant identifies the token and sends the token and the transaction information to the acquiring financial institution . If the token has routing information the acquiring financial institution may route the token and transaction data to the issuing financial institution directly or through the card association networks . In situations where the token does not have associated routing information the acquiring financial institution may utilize a tokenization routing database that stores tokens or groups of tokens and indicates to which issuing financial institutions the tokens should be routed. One or more of the acquiring financial institutions the card association networks and or the issuing financial institutions may control the tokenization routing database in order to assign and manage routing instructions for tokenization across the payment processing industry. The tokenization routing database may be populated with the tokens and the corresponding issuing financial institutions to which transactions associated with the tokens should be routed. However in some embodiments no customer account information would be stored in this tokenization routing database only the instructions for routing particular tokens may be stored.

Once the token and transaction details are routed to the issuing financial institution the issuing financial institution determines the user account associated with the token through the use of the token account database . The financial institution determines if the funds are available in the user account for the transaction and if the transaction information meets other limits by comparing the transaction information with the limits associated with the token the user account associated with the token or other limits described herein. If the transaction meets the limits associated with the token or user account then the issuing financial institution allows the transaction. If the transaction information does not meet one or more of the limits then the issuing financial institution denies the transaction. The issuing financial institution sends a notification of the approval or denial of the transaction back along the channels of the transaction processing system to the merchant which either allows or denies the transaction.

The embodiment illustrated in allows the user and the financial institution to shield the user s account number and other user information from all of the entities in the payment processing system because the merchant acquiring merchant bank payment association networks or other institutions in the payment processing system only use the token and or other shielded user information to process the transaction. Only the issuing financial institution has the actual account number of the user .

The merchant may provide the specific tokens from the financial institution to the user while the financial institution may store the user account information with the token provided to the user . The financial institution may communicate directly with the user or through the merchant in some embodiments in order to associate the token with the user . Since the merchant provides or is at least notified by the financial institution that a specific token or groups of tokens are associated with a specific issuing financial institution then the merchant may associate routing information and transaction information with the token when the user enters into a transaction with the merchant using the token.

The merchant passes the token and potentially other user account information routing information and transaction information to the acquiring financial institution using the traditional payment processing channels. The acquiring financial institution in turn passes the token and potentially other user account information and transaction information to the issuing financial institution directly or indirectly through the payment association networks using the routing information. The issuing financial institution accesses the token and account database to identify the user account associated with the token and determines if the transaction information violates any limits associated with the token or the user account. The issuing financial institution then either approves or denies the transaction and sends the approval or denial notification back through the payment processing system channels to the merchant which then notifies the user that the transaction is allowed or denied.

As is the case with the token system process in the token system process in allows the user and the financial institution to shield the user s account number and other user information from all of the entities in the payment processing system because the merchant acquiring merchant bank payment association networks or other institutions in the payment processing system only use the token and or other shielded user information to process the transaction. Only the issuing financial institution has the actual account number of the user .

The embodiments of the invention illustrated in are only example embodiments of the invention and as such it should be understood that combinations of these embodiments or other embodiments not specifically described herein may be utilized in order to process transactions between a user and merchant using one or more tokens as a substitute for user account numbers or other user account information such that the merchant or other institutions in the payment processing system do not have access to the actual user accounts or account information.

As briefly discussed above if the issuing financial institution creates the digital wallet not only does the issuing financial institution receive transaction information along the normal processing channels but the financial institution may also receive additional transaction information from the user through the digital wallet using the application program interfaces APIs or other applications created for the digital wallet. For example geographic location information of the user dates and times product information merchant information or any other information may be transmitted to the issuing financial institution through the APIs or other applications to the extent that this information is not already provided through the normal transaction processing channels. This additional transaction information may assist in determining if the transactions meet or violate limits associated with the tokens user accounts digital wallets or the like.

Alternatively if the merchant or another institution other than the issuing financial institution provides the digital wallet to the user the issuing financial institution may not receive all the transaction information from the traditional transaction processing channels or from the digital wallet. As such the issuing financial institution may have to receive additional transaction information from another application associated with the user and compare the transaction information received through the traditional channels in order to associate the additional information with the transaction. In other embodiments the issuing financial institutions may have partnerships with the merchants or other institutions to receive additional transaction information from the digital wallets provided by the merchants or other institutions when the users enter into transactions using the digital wallets.

Moreover when there is communication between the digital wallets of the users and the issuing financial institution or another institution transactions in which the user may enter may be pre authorized e.g. pre qualified to determine what accounts e.g. tokens may be used to complete the transaction without having to arbitrarily choose an account for the transaction. In the case when there are multiple digital wallets or multiple accounts the account that is pre authorized or the account that provides the best rewards may be automatically chosen to complete the transactions.

Additional embodiments of the invention will now be described in further detail in order to provide additional concepts and examples related to how tokens may be utilized in these illustrated token system processes or in other token system processes not specifically described in .

Referring to a network environment is illustrated in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. As illustrated in the remote server is operatively coupled via a network to the mobile device and or a point of transaction POT . In this configuration the remote server may send information to and receive information from the mobile device and or the POT . Additionally the mobile device may send and receive communications directly from the POT . The remote server may be or include one or more network base stations or other network components. illustrates only one example of an embodiment of a network environment and it will be appreciated that in other embodiments one or more of the systems devices or servers may be combined into a single system device or server or be made up of multiple systems devices or server.

The network may be a global area network GAN such as the Internet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a telecommunication network or any other type of network or combination of networks. The network may provide for wireline wireless or a combination wireline and wireless communication between devices on the network .

In some embodiments the user is an individual who maintains cellular products with one or more providers.

As illustrated in the remote server generally comprises a communication device a processing device and a memory device . As used herein the term processing device generally includes circuitry used for implementing the communication and or logic functions of the particular system. For example a processing device may include a digital signal processor device a microprocessor device and various analog to digital converters digital to analog converters and other support circuits and or combination of the foregoing. Control and signal processing functions of the system are allocated between these processing devices according to their respective capabilities. The processing device may include functionality to operate one or more software programs based on computer readable instructions thereof which may be stored in a memory device.

The processing device is operatively coupled to the communication device to communicate with the network and other devices on the network . As such the communication device generally comprises a modem server or other device for communicating with other devices on the network .

As further illustrated in the network remote server comprises computer readable instructions of an application . In some embodiments the memory device includes data storage for storing data related to and or used by the application . The application may perform one or more of the steps and or sub steps discussed herein and or one or more steps not discussed herein. For example in some embodiments the application may initiate presentation of an interface for digital wallet management.

As illustrated in the mobile device generally comprises a communication device a processing device and a memory device . The processing device is operatively coupled to the communication device and the memory device . In some embodiments the processing device may send or receive data from the mobile device to the remote server via the communication device over a network . As such the communication device generally comprises a modem server or other device for communicating with other devices on the network .

As further illustrated in the mobile device comprises computer readable instructions stored in the memory device which in one embodiments includes the computer readable instructions of an application . In the embodiment illustrated in the application allows the mobile device to be linked to the remote server to communicate via a network . The application may also allow the mobile device to connect directly i.e. locally or device to device with the POT for performing a transaction. The application may perform one or more of the steps and or sub steps discussed herein and or one or more steps not discussed herein. For example in some embodiments the application may initiate presentation of an interface for digital wallet management.

As illustrated in the POT may include a communication device a processing device and a memory device . The processing device is operatively coupled to the communication device and the memory device . In some embodiments the processing device may send or receive data from the mobile device and or the remote server via the communication device . Such communication may be performed either over a direct connection and or over a network . As such the communication device generally comprises a modem server or other device for communication with other devices on the network .

As further illustrated in the POT comprises computer readable instructions of an application . In the embodiment illustrated in the application allows the ATM to be linked to the remote server to communicate via a network . The application may also allow the mobile device to connect directly i.e. locally or device to device with the POT or indirectly through the network . The application may perform one or more of the steps and or sub steps discussed herein and or one or more steps not discussed herein.

It is understood that the servers systems and devices described herein illustrate one embodiment of the invention. It is further understood that one of more of the server systems and devices can be combined in other embodiments and still function in the same or similar way as the embodiments described herein.

In various embodiments the POT device may be or include a merchant machine and or server and or may be or include the mobile device of the user may function as a point of transaction device. The embodiments described herein may refer to the use of a transaction transaction event or point of transaction event to trigger the steps functions routines etc. described herein. In various embodiments occurrence of a transaction triggers the sending of information such as alerts and the like. Unless specifically limited by the context a transaction transaction event or point of transaction event refers to any communication between the user and the merchant e.g. financial institution or other entity monitoring the user s activities. In some embodiments for example a transaction may refer to a purchase of goods or services a return of goods or services a payment transaction a credit transaction or other interaction involving a user s bank account. As used herein a bank account refers to a credit account a debit deposit account or the like. Although the phrase bank account includes the term bank the account need not be maintained by a bank and may instead be maintained by other financial institutions. For example in the context of a financial institution a transaction may refer to one or more of a sale of goods and or services an account balance inquiry a rewards transfer an account money transfer opening a bank application on a user s computer or mobile device a user accessing their e wallet or any other interaction involving the user and or the user s device that is detectable by the financial institution. As further examples a transaction may occur when an entity associated with the user is alerted via the transaction of the user s location. A transaction may occur when a user accesses a building uses a rewards card and or performs an account balance query. A transaction may occur as a user s mobile device establishes a wireless connection such as a Wi Fi connection with a point of sale terminal. In some embodiments a transaction may include one or more of the following purchasing renting selling and or leasing goods and or services e.g. groceries stamps tickets DVDs vending machine items etc. withdrawing cash making payments to creditors e.g. paying monthly bills paying federal state and or local taxes and or bills etc. sending remittances transferring balances from one account to another account loading money onto stored value cards SVCs and or prepaid cards donating to charities and or the like.

In some embodiments the transaction may refer to an event and or action or group of actions facilitated or performed by a user s device such as a user s mobile device. Such a device may be referred to herein as a point of transaction device . A point of transaction could refer to any location virtual location or otherwise proximate occurrence of a transaction. A point of transaction device may refer to any device used to perform a transaction either from the user s perspective the merchant s perspective or both. In some embodiments the point of transaction device refers only to a user s device in other embodiments it refers only to a merchant device and in yet other embodiments it refers to both a user device and a merchant device interacting to perform a transaction. For example in one embodiment the point of transaction device refers to the user s mobile device configured to communicate with a merchant s point of sale terminal whereas in other embodiments the point of transaction device refers to the merchant s point of sale terminal configured to communicate with a user s mobile device and in yet other embodiments the point of transaction device refers to both the user s mobile device and the merchant s point of sale terminal configured to communicate with each other to carry out a transaction.

As used herein a user device or mobile device may be a point of transaction device as discussed or may otherwise be a device carried by a user configured to communicate across a network such as a cellular network wireless fidelity network or otherwise. As used here a user refers to a previous customer or a non customer of one or more merchants or entities associated with one or more merchants.

In some embodiments a point of transaction device is or includes an interactive computer terminal that is configured to initiate perform complete and or facilitate one or more transactions. A point of transaction device could be or include any device that a user may use to perform a transaction with an entity such as but not limited to an ATM a loyalty device such as a rewards card loyalty card or other loyalty device a magnetic based payment device e.g. a credit card debit card etc. a personal identification number PIN payment device a contactless payment device e.g. a key fob a radio frequency identification device RFID and the like a computer e.g. a personal computer tablet computer desktop computer server laptop etc. a mobile device e.g. a smartphone cellular phone personal digital assistant PDA device MP3 device personal GPS device etc. a merchant terminal a self service machine e.g. vending machine self checkout machine etc. a public and or business kiosk e.g. an Internet kiosk ticketing kiosk bill pay kiosk etc. a gaming device and or various combinations of the foregoing.

In some embodiments a point of transaction device is operated in a public place e.g. on a street corner at the doorstep of a private residence in an open market at a public rest stop etc. . In other embodiments the point of transaction device is additionally or alternatively operated in a place of business e.g. in a retail store post office banking center grocery store factory floor etc. . In accordance with some embodiments the point of transaction device is not owned by the user of the point of transaction device. Rather in some embodiments the point of transaction device is owned by a mobile business operator or a point of transaction operator e.g. merchant vendor salesperson etc. . In yet other embodiments the point of transaction device is owned by the financial institution offering the point of transaction device providing functionality in accordance with embodiments of the invention described herein.

Referring now to a diagram illustrates an example of an interface for managing digital wallets. The example interface illustrates a combined representation of three digital wallets associated with the mobile device of a user. As shown each of the digital wallets has at least one associated payment credential e.g. tokens . The tokens as shown are sorted into different digital wallets. As shown each of the digital wallets is also illustrated graphically as a separate entity. Also shown is a comprehensive listing of the tokens available for usage and therefore available for association and or authentication into one or more digital wallets. The customer may select a token from the available token listing and then associate it with a particular wallet by dragging it into the graphical representation of the wallet. In other embodiments once a token and or wallet has been selected additional functionality is available such as that described below with reference to .

According to embodiments of the invention during an online banking session a customer may use an interface to select which payment credentials cards credit debit tokens etc. are entered into which digital wallets e.g. google paypal etc. . In some instances the customer is given an opportunity to set limits for each wallet and in some cases the customer is provided an opportunity to set timeframe limits. The customer may use an interface for visibility into everywhere a payment credential e.g. credit debit card is tied for payment recurring or otherwise. In a digital wallet the customer may provide recurring payment information and push button billpay enrollment .

Referring now to a flowchart illustrates a method for digital wallet management according to embodiments of the invention.

The first step represented by block is to initiate presentation of a digital wallet management interface. This interface in some embodiments is presented on a mobile device of a customer of a financial institution. The next step represented by block is to initiate presentation of at least one digital wallet. The digital wallet s may be presented in a variety of formats such as a scrolling format multiple icons or a flip book format where the user may turn pages or leafs associated with each digital as if turning the pages of a book. Next represented by block the system initiates presentation of at least one representation of at least one payment credential and at least one indication of which of the at least one digital wallets are associated with each of the at least one payment credentials. Each digital wallet may be displayed concurrently or in some embodiments may include presentation of only a portion of the available digital wallets for example only one or two digital wallets of many available digital wallets. In some embodiments the payment credentials associated with a digital wallet may be overlaid on the associated digital wallet thereby indicated the payment credential is associated with the digital wallet. In some cases a payment credential may be associated with more than one digital wallet. In such a case the payment credential may have an associated icon or representation shown with each of its associated digital wallets. In some embodiments on the other hand the interface is payment credential centric or in other words each payment credential is shown separately and the digital wallet s to which the payment credential is associated are shown as objects within or otherwise associated with the payment credential. For example a credit card icon may be shown as a window that includes multiple objects representing the various digital wallets with which the credit card is associated for use.

As used herein when a payment credential is associated with a digital wallet the payment credential is typically shown by the interface to be connected with the digital wallet for use as a payment credential with the digital wallet. In such a case the payment credential has been authenticated for use in association with the digital wallet such that the user may select the digital wallet for performing a transaction using the associated payment credential. Authentication may require one or more authentication steps with the financial institution that issued the payment credential. As discussed in further detail below a payment credential may be authenticated for use with a digital wallet but may be de selected for use with the digital wallet by the user i.e. it may not be associated with the digital wallet in which case the user would not be allowed by the system to use the payment credential in a transaction with the digital wallet regardless of the fact that it has been authenticated for use with the digital wallet. In such a case the user can use the interface to associate the already authenticated payment credential with the digital wallet and then perform the desired transaction.

In some embodiments as represented by block user input is received selecting one of the at least one representations of the at least one payment credentials. Next as represented by block the system initiates presentation of the selected payment credential and the selected digital wallet and at least one indication of association between the selected payment credential and the selected digital wallet. In some embodiments as discussed above the interface may be payment credential centric or digital wallet centric in that either the payment credential s or the digital wallet s serve as the bins in which the digital wallet s and payment credential s respectively may be manipulated. Accordingly the user may in some embodiments click and drag desired icons into the desired bins in order to associate the payment credentials and digital wallets. This may trigger one or more necessary steps such as authentication of the selected payment credential with the financial institution that issued the payment credential and or authentication or other verification with the entity that maintains issues facilitates the digital wallet.

In some embodiments one or more of the payment credentials may be authenticated for use with a digital wallet but may not be selected for use with the digital wallet. In such cases the authenticated payment credentials may not be shown as associated with the digital wallet but rather may reside in a queue bin or other bin. Some separate indicator may be used to indicate that the payment credential is authenticated for use in a digital wallet for which it is not currently associated i.e. the digital wallet bin does not show that the payment credential is associated . In such a case when the user selects the payment credential for association with the digital wallet then less than full authentication or no additional authentication may be required for the payment credential to be associated with the digital wallet due to the previous authentication of the payment credential with the digital wallet.

In various embodiments the at least one representation of the at least one payment credential includes a graphical object representing the at least one payment credential. Furthermore in some embodiments the at least one representation of the at least one digital wallet comprises a graphical object representing the at least one digital wallet. Similarly in some embodiments the at least one indication comprises a graphical link between the graphical object representing the at least one payment credential and the graphical object representing the at least one digital wallet. The graphical link in some embodiments may include an overlap of the graphical object representing the at least one payment credential with the graphical object representing the at least one digital wallet. In various other embodiments the graphical link may be one or more other graphical representations of a connection or association between the payment credential and the digital wallet e.g. one or more graphical similarities of the respective representations .

In various embodiment the system is configured to receive user input setting a usage limit for one of the at least one digital wallets. This usage limit may be a threshold spending limit. Such a threshold spending limit may reference an aggregation of all the payment credentials associated with the digital wallet. In some instances the usage limit is a threshold spending limit to be applied to each of the payment credentials associated with the digital wallet individually. In other cases the usage limit is a threshold number of transactions for an aggregation of all the payment credentials associated with the digital wallet. In various embodiments the usage limit is or includes a threshold number of transactions applied to each of the payment credentials associated with the digital wallet individually.

In various embodiments the usage limit is a timing limit to be applied to an aggregation of all the payment credentials associated with the digital wallet. In other embodiments the usage limit is a timing limit to be applied to each of the payment credentials associated with the digital wallet.

In some embodiments the digital wallet management interface is accessed by a customer authenticated through an online banking session administered by a financial institution also administering the digital wallet. In some embodiments the interface is accessed by a customer authenticated through a mobile banking application session administered by a financial institution also administering the digital wallet.

According to embodiments of the invention a customer can operate toggles or switches that turn on off token functionality for various situations. For example the customer may turn on the travel toggle which indicates that the customer is traveling. A token may be changed and then when the toggle is removed the token may be changed again.

Referring now to a flowchart illustrates a method for token management according to embodiments of the invention. The method includes as represented by block initiating presentation of a digital wallet. The next step represented by block is to initiate presentation of an original token associated with the digital wallet. Finally as represented by block the system initiates presentation of a toggle switch comprising a first position and a second position.

The toggle switch is associated with the original token and is configured for graphical manipulation by the user. The toggle switch may have a first and a second position in some embodiments where the first position corresponds to the original token being available for use as a payment credential and the second position corresponds to the original token being unavailable for use as a payment credential.

In various embodiments a travel indicator may be configured such that the first position corresponds to the user not traveling and the second position corresponds to the user traveling. In some cases when the travel indicator is moved from the first position to the second position the original token is deactivated and a new token is issued to the digital wallet.

In some embodiments when the travel indicator is moved from the second position to the first position the new token is deactivated and the original token is re activated. In some cases when the travel indicator is moved from the second position to the first position the new token is deactivated and the second new token is issued to the digital wallet. In some embodiments the system destroys the original token and or the new token.

In some embodiments there may be multiple toggle switches associated with a single payment credential. In some cases each of the toggle switches may be locked or immovable by the customer based on whether the financial institution or other administering entity allows the toggles to be moved in a particular situation. For example in some cases a toggle switch may be associated with traveling and if it is determined the customer is not traveling based on e.g. GPS data then the toggle switch may be disengaged or immovable by the customer. In some embodiments the system may propose a particular toggle switch position to the customer via the interface. For example when it is determined that the customer is traveling e.g. by using GPS data then the interface may propose that a travel toggle switch should be activated. Once the user confirms that the user is traveling then the system activates the travel toggle switch or in some cases the user then activates the travel toggle switch manually.

According to embodiments of the invention a payment credential centric interface provides the customer visibility into every payment obligation one time recurring or otherwise associated with a payment credential by providing information and management opportunities. The interface may also provide recurring payment information and push button billpay enrollment .

Referring now to a flowchart illustrates a method for credential management according to embodiments of the invention. The first step as represented by block is to determine one or more payment obligations associated with a payment credential. The next step represented by block is to initiate presentation of a payment credential management interface. Next as represented by block the system initiates presentation of a representation of the payment credential. Finally as represented by block the system initiates presentation of the one or more payment obligations associated with the payment credential.

In some embodiments determining the one or more payment obligations associated with the payment credential includes accessing one or more databases to determine whether the payment credential is obligated for a payment having associated information stored in the one or more databases. The payment obligations may be associated with multiple financial institutions and or payees. Accordingly the system may require access to multiple disparate databases to determine whether a particular payment credential has payment obligations. In some instances the system may determine payment obligations based on determining whether a transaction recurs on a regular basis e.g. month to month or week to week etc. .

In some embodiments determining the one or more payment obligations associated with the payment credential includes determining that the payment credential has been used for one or more recurring transactions for two or more payment periods. In some such embodiments determining that the payment credential has been used for one or more recurring transactions for two or more payment periods includes determining that the payment credential has been used for two or more consecutive payment periods for a similar transaction comprising a similar transaction amount. In some of these embodiments determining that the payment credential has been used for one or more recurring transactions for two or more payment periods includes determining that the payment credential has been used for the same transaction amount for two or more consecutive payment periods.

In some embodiments determining that the payment credential has been used for one or more recurring transactions for two or more payment periods includes determining that the payment credential has been used for a transaction amount within a predetermined percentage threshold of a similar previous payment period. In some embodiments determining that the payment credential has been used for one or more recurring transactions for two or more payment periods determining that the payment credential has been used for a transaction amount within a predetermined percentage threshold of a corresponding payment period from one year prior.

It will further be understood that a system as contemplated herein can be configured to perform any of the portions of the process flows and or upon or after one or more triggering events which in some embodiments is one or more any of the portions of the process flows and or . As used herein triggering event refers to an event that automatically triggers the execution performance and or implementation of a triggered action either immediately nearly immediately or sometime after e.g. within minutes etc. the occurrence of the triggering event. For example in some embodiments the system performing any of the portions of the process flows and or is configured such that the system receiving an indication of a compromised payment vehicle or a potential exposure to loss the triggering event automatically and immediately or nearly immediately triggers the system to automatically without human intervention generate a token for facilitating or completing a pending purchase transaction the triggered action .

Also it will be understood that in some embodiments a predetermined time and or the passage of a predetermined per any of the portions of the process flows and or . Of course any of the embodiments described and or contemplated herein can involve one or more triggering events triggered actions automatic actions and or human actions.

In addition it will be understood that in some embodiments a system performing any of the portions of the process flows and or and or a user thereof is configured to perform each portion of the process flows and or from start to finish within moments seconds and or minutes e.g. within approximately 10 15 minutes etc. . In some embodiments any of the portions of the process flows and or are performed in real time in substantially real time and or at one or more predetermined times. Further it will be understood that the number order and or content of any of the portions of the process flows and or are exemplary and may vary. It will further be understood that the any of the portions of the process flows and or can be configured to perform any one or more of the portions of any one or more of the embodiments described and or contemplated herein.

In various embodiments of the invention transaction limits and or thresholds may be used. For example transaction limits may be used to determine whether a payment credential has been exposed and or whether to approve or deny a transaction. If a transaction e.g. transaction information fails to meet a limit the transaction may be denied. Alternatively if a transaction e.g. transaction information meets a limit then the transaction may be allowed.

While the system has been described as determining whether the transaction meets the limits and thereby determining whether an exposure has occurred in some embodiments filters for determining exposure may also be responsive to transaction information. For example exceptions to filters may allow a transaction even if a filter is not met. In an embodiment the system evaluates the transaction information to determine 1 does the transaction meet the limits and 2 if the transaction does not meet the limits does the transaction qualify for an exception to the limits. If the system determines that a positive response to either query then transaction may be allowed.

In some embodiments the exceptions are based at least in part upon the transaction information. For example the system may determine that a transaction does not meet a category limit because doing so would cause the token to exceed the category limit for the time period. In this example however the system also determines that the token is near e.g. within one week within three days within one day or the like the expiration date of the token or the current evaluation period for the token and that the token has remaining funds in a different category. Given the short period of time remaining for the expenses to be made the system may determine that the transaction falls within an exception and allow the transaction. In another example the system may determine that the user is outside of geographic limits defined by a route. The system however determines that the user has conducted a transaction at the merchant frequently in the past and therefore allows the transaction based on the previous number of transactions at the merchant. These examples use multiple types of transaction information e.g. the date of the transaction the location of the transaction the category of the transaction the amount of the transaction and the like to determine if the exceptions apply. In some embodiments only a single piece of transaction information applies. For example the system may always permit transactions that are associated with a specific category for example emergency expenses. The system may always permit transactions at emergency rooms doctors offices and the like.

In some embodiments the exceptions are determined by the system and or the user. For example the system may provide a list of exceptions based on the user s transaction history. If the user has a favorite coffee shop the system may allow transactions at the coffee shop up to a certain amount even if the transaction would not meet a limit. The user or an administrator may provide exceptions based on location or other transaction information. For example the user may input exceptions that allow transactions within a specific region e.g. a city that would not be allowed outside of the specific region. The exceptions may be changed at any time by the system or user.

The exceptions may be limited by frequency amount percentage of the limit or the like. For example a transaction may qualify for an exception but only up to a certain percentage of the funds remaining in a related category. For example a transaction may qualify for an exception because the expense period for the token is almost expired and there are remaining funds in a first category. The system may permit a transaction in a second category up to some percentage e.g. 50 of the funds remaining in the first category.

The transaction responsive limits are designed to provide flexibility to the system and better serve the user. The transaction responsive limits may be tailored to the user or generic to the token and or system. By providing for transaction responsive limits the system allows transactions that would otherwise be denied based on binary yes no limits when the transaction information indicates the appropriateness of the transaction.

Although many embodiments of the present invention have just been described above the present invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Also it will be understood that where possible any of the advantages features functions devices and or operational aspects of any of the embodiments of the present invention described and or contemplated herein may be included in any of the other embodiments of the present invention described and or contemplated herein and or vice versa. In addition where possible any terms expressed in the singular form herein are meant to also include the plural form and or vice versa unless explicitly stated otherwise. As used herein at least one shall mean one or more and these phrases are intended to be interchangeable. Accordingly the terms a and or an shall mean at least one or one or more even though the phrase one or more or at least one is also used herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art in view of this disclosure the present invention may include and or be embodied as an apparatus including for example a system machine device computer program product and or the like as a method including for example a business method computer implemented process and or the like or as any combination of the foregoing. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention may take the form of an entirely business method embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code stored procedures in a database etc. an entirely hardware embodiment or an embodiment combining business method software and hardware aspects that may generally be referred to herein as a system. Furthermore embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product that includes a computer readable storage medium having one or more computer executable program code portions stored therein. As used herein a processor which may include one or more processors may be configured to perform a certain function in a variety of ways including for example by having one or more general purpose circuits perform the function by executing one or more computer executable program code portions embodied in a computer readable medium and or by having one or more application specific circuits perform the function.

It will be understood that any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer readable medium may include but is not limited to a non transitory computer readable medium such as a tangible electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared and or semiconductor system device and or other apparatus. For example in some embodiments the non transitory computer readable medium includes a tangible medium such as a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM and or some other tangible optical and or magnetic storage device. In other embodiments of the present invention however the computer readable medium may be transitory such as for example a propagation signal including computer executable program code portions embodied therein.

One or more computer executable program code portions for carrying out operations of the present invention may include object oriented scripted and or unscripted programming languages such as for example Java Perl Smalltalk C SAS SQL Python Objective C JavaScript and or the like. In some embodiments the one or more computer executable program code portions for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention are written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming languages and or similar programming languages. The computer program code may alternatively or additionally be written in one or more multi paradigm programming languages such as for example F .

Some embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of apparatus and or methods. It will be understood that each block included in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and or combinations of blocks included in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams may be implemented by one or more computer executable program code portions. These one or more computer executable program code portions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer and or some other programmable data processing apparatus in order to produce a particular machine such that the one or more computer executable program code portions which execute via the processor of the computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus create mechanisms for implementing the steps and or functions represented by the flowchart s and or block diagram block s .

The one or more computer executable program code portions may be stored in a transitory and or non transitory computer readable medium e.g. a memory etc. that can direct instruct and or cause a computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the computer executable program code portions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction mechanisms which implement the steps and or functions specified in the flowchart s and or block diagram block s .

The one or more computer executable program code portions may also be loaded onto a computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer and or other programmable apparatus. In some embodiments this produces a computer implemented process such that the one or more computer executable program code portions which execute on the computer and or other programmable apparatus provide operational steps to implement the steps specified in the flowchart s and or the functions specified in the block diagram block s . Alternatively computer implemented steps may be combined with and or replaced with operator and or human implemented steps in order to carry out an embodiment of the present invention.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations modifications and combinations of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

To supplement the present disclosure this application further incorporates entirely by reference the following commonly assigned patent applications 

