---

title: Systems and methods for detecing fraudulent electronic communication
abstract: Systems and methods are presented for receiving, at a server computer, a plurality of request messages to analyze potentially fraudulent electronic communications, each request message of the plurality of request messages comprising an electronic communication. For each request message of the plurality of request messages, the server computer may perform operations of associating a unique identification number with the electronic communication, analyzing the electronic communication to determine that the electronic communication contains actionable data and deactivating the actionable data, analyzing the electronic communication to determine header information associated with the electronic communication and at least one Internet Protocol (IP) address in the electronic communication, generating an analysis output document including the header information associated with the electronic communication and the at least one IP address, and storing the analysis output document in a data repository associated with the unique identification number. The server computer may further perform the operations of sending the analysis output document to at least one security information provider for analysis, receiving at least one report from the at least one security information provider, storing the at least one report in the data repository associated with the unique identifier, and causing a notification to be provided indicating that the electronic communication has been analyzed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09591012&OS=09591012&RS=09591012
owner: Viewpost IP Holdings, LLC
number: 09591012
owner_city: Maitland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160331
---
The present disclosure relates generally to a mechanism for detecting fraudulent electronic communication.

Fraudulent electronic communication such as an email or an instant message may be used to steal personal data or information such as credit card numbers passwords account data or other information introduce a virus or steal data from a computer or system. For example a fraudulent electronic communication may appear as if it is sent by a trustworthy entity e.g. a bank social web site credit card company etc. . The fraudulent email communication may direct users to enter details at a fake web site that looks like a legitimate website or may contain a link that when selected by the user may install a virus on the user s computer. Manual analysis of suspected fraudulent electronic communication requires significant labor and is highly susceptible to human error. Moreover with the increasing number of fraudulent electronic communications it is not practical to manually analyze each email.

Systems and methods described herein relate to analyzing potentially fraudulent electronic communication. In one example a security analysis server receives a plurality of request messages to analyze potentially fraudulent electronic communications. For each request message the security analysis server analyzes the electronic communication for actionable data and deactivates any actionable data. The security analysis server further analyzes the electronic communication to determine information associated with the electronic communication e.g. header information geolocation of IP addresses information associated with links or attachments included in the electronic communication etc. . The security analysis server generates an analysis output document with the information associated with the electronic communication and then sends the analysis output document to various security information providers for additional analysis related to viruses spam malware etc. The security analysis server receives reports from the security information providers and then may perform further analysis to determine whether an electronic communication is fraudulent or may provide the information to a security analyst for further analysis.

As explained above manual analysis of suspected fraudulent electronic communications may require significant labor and is highly susceptible to human error. Moreover with the increasing number of fraudulent electronic communication it is not practical to manually analyze each email. Embodiments described herein provide for a more efficient and effective system by providing fast response time and the ability to process a high volume of electronic communications. Accordingly the systems and methods described herein can analyze detect and remove harmful electronic communications quickly. Furthermore the systems and methods can provide data and analysis indicating trends and can be used to recommend proactive solutions. In addition the systems and methods eliminate human error such as not fully extracting data not properly parsing data not processing data using relevant and applicable processes not having the ability to include all relevant data in human readable formatted report e.g. such as decoding links etc. .

The client device s may be a device of a user that is used to send and receive electronic communication such as email instant messages etc. In one embodiment the system is an electronic communication analysis system that utilizes security data among other data to provide analysis related to potentially fraudulent electronic communication.

One or more users may be a person a machine or other means of interacting with the client device s . In example embodiments the user may not be part of the system but may interact with the system via the client device s or other means. For instance the user may provide input e.g. touch screen input or alphanumeric input to the client device s and the input may be communicated to other entities in the system e.g. third party server s server system etc. via the network . In this instance the other entities in the system in response to receiving the input from the user may communicate information to the client device s via the network to be presented to the user . In this way the user may interact with the various entities in the system using the client device s .

The system may further include a network . One or more portions of network may be an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network a wireless network a WiFi network a WiMax network another type of network or a combination of two or more such networks.

The client device s may access the various data and applications provided by other entities in the system via web client e.g. a browser such as the Internet Explorer browser developed by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. State or one or more client applications . The client device s may include one or more client applications also referred to as apps such as but not limited to a web browser messaging application electronic mail email application a social networking application an e commerce site application a mapping or location application and the like. In some embodiments one or more client applications may be included in a given client device and configured to locally provide the user interface and at least some of the application functionalities. The client application s are configured to communicate with other entities in the system e.g. analyst device s third party server s server system etc. on an as needed basis for data and or processing capabilities not locally available e.g. sending and receiving electronic communication accessing electronic communication analysis of potentially fraudulent electronic communication to authenticate a user to verify a method of payment etc. . Conversely one or more client applications may not be included in the client device s and then the client device s may use its web browser to access the one or more client applications hosted on other entities in the system e.g. third party server s server system etc. .

A server system may provide server side functionality via the network e.g. the Internet or wide area network WAN to one or more third party servers one or more analyst device s and or one or more client devices . The server system includes a security analysis server which is communicatively coupled with one or more databases . Database s may be storage devices that store information such as documents including information generated from analysis of electronic communication reports from security information provider s etc.

The security analysis server may provide functionality to perform various analysis of potentially fraudulent electronic communications. The security analysis server may access one or more databases to retrieve stored data to use in analysis and to store results of analysis.

The system includes one or more security information provider s . The one or more security information provider s may be third party services that are separate entities from the server system or may be associated with the same entity as server system or both . The one or more security information provider s may analyze data e.g. an analysis output document etc. received from the server system and provide reports relating to the analysis to the server system . For example a security information provider may be an antivirus scanning engine that analyzes data in the analysis output document for any known viruses. The report provided from the security information provider may include any warnings or alerts related to viruses associated with data in the analysis output document.

The system includes one or more third party servers . The one or more third party server s may be electronic communication server s configured to send and receive electronic communication. Examples of electronic communication may include email instant messages e.g. AOL Instant Messenger Facebook Chat Google Talk ICQ Windows Live Messenger Yahoo Messenger etc. Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS etc. Some examples of electronic communication servers include Post Office Protocol 3 POP3 Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP Simple Message Transfer Protocol SMTP Microsoft Exchange Server Short Message Service Center SMSC etc. The one or more third party server s may be associated with one or more analyst devices s or client device s . For example the one or more third party server s may send electronic communication to and receive electronic communication from one or more analyst device s and or one or more client device s . The one or more third party servers may interact with the server system via security analysis server . For example the third party server s may send electronic communication to and receive electronic communication from server system .

The system further includes one or more analyst device s . The analyst device s may be a device of a user such as a security analyst that is used to send and receive electronic communication analyze electronic communication receive analysis and reports associated with electronic communication etc. The analyst device s may comprise but is not limited to a mobile phone desktop computer laptop portable digital assistants PDAs smart phones tablets ultra books netbooks laptops multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics game consoles set top boxes or any other communication device that a user may utilize to access the networked system . In some embodiments the one or more analyst device s may comprise a display module not shown to display information e.g. in the form of user interfaces . In further embodiments the analyst device s may comprise one or more of touch screens accelerometers gyroscopes cameras microphones global positioning system GPS devices and so forth.

The analyst device s may access the various data and applications provided by other entities in the system via one or more analyst application s . The one or more analyst applications also referred to as apps may include but are not limited to a web browser a security application a messaging application an electronic mail email application a social networking application an e commerce site application and the like. In some embodiments one or more analyst applications may be included in a given one of the analyst device s and configured to locally provide the user interface and at least some of the application functionalities. The analyst application s are configured to communicate with other entities in the system e.g. client device s third party server s server system etc. on an as needed basis for data and or processing capabilities not locally available e.g. sending and receiving electronic communication accessing electronic communication analysis of potentially fraudulent electronic communication to authenticate a user to verify a method of payment etc. . Conversely one or more analyst applications may not be included in the analyst device s and then the analyst device s may use its web browser to access the one or more analyst application s hosted on other entities in the system e.g. third party server s server system etc. .

A user may receive various electronic communications throughout the day. For example the user may receive work related emails personal emails text messages instant messages and other forms of electronic communication via one or more client device s . An electronic communication received by the user may be a valid electronic communication from known sender or may be electronic communications laden with malware viruses etc. An electronic communication may include one or more attachments.

Electronic communication that is potentially fraudulent may be sent to server system for analysis. In one example a user himself may send the potentially fraudulent electronic communication to server system by forwarding the message to a particular message address e.g. email address phone number etc. . In another example the user may have an option within a client application e.g. an email application text message application social network application instant message application etc. to select for the message to be analyzed e.g. via drop down menu item predetermined finger swipe designated button etc. . The message may then be forwarded to the server system .

In another example the potentially fraudulent electronic communication is sent automatically from the one or more client device s to the server system before the user receives it or in parallel to the user receiving it. In yet another example the potentially fraudulent electronic communication is sent automatically from a server e.g. third party server s associated with the client device s upon receiving the electronic communication and before or at substantially the same time as the electronic communication message is provided to the user . In a further example the electronic communication may be moved or sent to a deleted items folder until the electronic communication is analyzed by server system .

Once the server system receives the request message the request message may be automatically analyzed or it may be provided to an analyst device s so that a security analyst may review and send the request message to server system . The security analyst may send the request message individually or may send a batch of request messages to server system .

In one example the security analyst may send the potentially fraudulent electronic communication to server system by forwarding the message to a particular message address e.g. email address phone number etc. . In another example the security analyst may have an option within an analyst application s e.g. security analysis application an email application text message application social network application instant message application etc. to select for the message to be analyzed e.g. via drop down menu item predetermined finger swipe designated button etc. . shows one example interface that allows a security analyst to review and select one or more electronic communications to be sent to the server system . For example the security analyst may select an electronic communication and be provided with a drop down menu list when the security analyst right clicks on the selected electronic communication . The drop down menu list provides the security analyst with a mechanism for sending the selected electronic communication to the server system via the menu item .

The server system may receive a plurality of request messages which request analysis of potentially fraudulent electronic communication messages. For example the server system may receive request messages via client device s third party server s analyst device s etc. Each request message may comprise an electronic communication. The server system may receive the plurality of request messages and perform a number of operations for each request message e.g. via security analysis server .

At operation the security analysis server receives a request message including an electronic communication. At operation the security analysis server associates a unique identifier number with the electronic communication. The security server may create a data repository associated with the unique identifier number. The data repository may reside in database s and or on an analyst device . The data repository may be accessible by a security analyst e.g. using an analyst device .

At operation the security analysis server analyzes the electronic communication for actionable data. Analyzing the electronic communication for actionable data may include analyzing any attachments associated with the electronic communication for actionable data. Actionable data is data with which a user or a system can interact and which will cause an action to occur. For example actionable data may include a link e.g. a web address or URL . When a user selects the link an action may occur such as launching a program opening a file collecting data from the user s device etc. Other examples of actionable data include an executable program file a macro virus file etc. For example the electronic communication and or any attachment associated with the electronic communication may contain one more links or an executable file or the attachment itself may be an executable file . If the security analysis server determines the electronic communication includes actionable data the security analysis server deactivates the actionable data at operation so that it can no longer be activated.

At operation the security analysis server analyzes the electronic communication to determine information associated with the electronic communication. In one example the security analysis server analyzes the electronic communication to determine header information associated with the electronic communication. The security analysis server may then analyze the header information to determine various information associated with the electronic communication including at least one Internet Protocol IP address. For example header information may include sender information e.g. a sender s name and or address one or more recipient s information e.g. recipient name and address a sent date and time of the electronic communication e.g. a sent timestamp and a received timestamp a subject e.g. a subject of the message specified by a user etc.

Header information may further contain routing information. A given electronic communication may be routed between one or more computer systems e.g. third party server s before a user ultimately receives the electronic communication. The header information may contain routing information such as one or more IP addresses that may identify one or more computer systems through which the electronic communication passed. Some or all of the header information may not be visible to the user. For example the user may not be able to see the list of IP addresses for where the electronic communication was routed. Header information may further include a sent and received timestamp for intermediate computing systems.

In another example the security analysis server may analyze the electronic communication including any attachment associated with the electronic communication to determine at least one link in the electronic communication. The security analysis server may parse the at least one link. The parsing the at least one link in the electronic communication may comprise decoding the at least one link. For example before providing an electronic communication to a user any links in the electronic communication may be encoded e.g. to take the link such as a website address and turn it into a very long and hard to decrypt message . The security analysis server may decode the link to be in an easily readable format for analysis.

At operation the security analysis server generates an analysis output document associated with the electronic communication. For example the analysis output document may include the header information associated with the electronic communication at least one IP address at least one parsed link etc. The security analysis server stores the analysis output document at operation in the data repository associated with the unique identification number. An example analysis output document is shown in broken into three parts . The analysis output document may be customized to include information and to be in a format determined by a security analyst.

At operation the security analysis server sends the analysis output document to one or more security information provider s . As described above each security information provider may analyze the data in the analysis output document for any viruses malware phishing schemes or other mechanisms to compromise a user s system or gain personal information from a user. The security information provider may generate a report based on the analysis. For example the report may include any warnings or alerts related to potential viruses malware spam. IP addresses associated with command and control. IP addresses indicating a compromised electronic communication irregular geolocation key words phrases etc. An example report is shown in . The security information provider sends the report to the security analysis server .

At operation the security analysis server receives the at least one report associated with the analysis output document. The security analysis server stores the at least one report at operation .

The security analysis server may conduct further analysis utilizing the analysis output document and or one or more reports from security information providers . For example the security analysis server may analyze the analysis output document and the at least one report for any information that may indicate that the electronic communication is fraudulent.

In one example the security analysis server may analyze the IP addresses in the analysis output document to determine the geolocation for each IP address. The geolocation may be used to determine whether the electronic communication is fraudulent. For instance there may be certain locations that are considered risky to be sending or receiving electronic communications. Or based on the sender geolocation and receiving geolocation the security analysis server may determine the electronic communication is fraudulent because for example it does not make sense for an electronic communication that was sent and received in the U.S. to be routed through China or Russia. The security analysis server may generate a report with the geolocation information and or any analysis of risk of the geolocation information. The report may be stored in the data repository associated with the unique identifier number.

In another example the security analysis server may analyze any links in the analysis output document to determine whether the text of the link actually matches the destination of the link. For example the parsed text of the link may be www.myfavoritestore.com but the destination associated with the link e.g. where the link will take a user once the user selects the link may be www.viruscentral.com . The security analysis server may generate a report with the destination and or analysis of the destination. The report may be stored in the data repository associated with the unique identifier number.

In another example the security analysis server may generate a risk rating based on the analysis output document and or the one or more reports from security information provider s . For example each suspicious characteristic of the electronic communication may be scored from one to ten. For example a link text that does not match a destination gets a score suspicious geolocations get a score certain keywords get a score etc. The scores are then used to generate an overall risk rating. The risk rating may be stored in the data repository associated with the unique identifier. The security analysis server may analyze the risk rating to determine whether it meets a predetermined risk rating threshold e.g. an eight out of ten or greater . If the security analysis server determines that it meets a risk rating threshold it may cause the electronic communication to be automatically deleted from a client device that originally received the electronic communication. Or the security analysis server may cause the electronic communication to be automatically deleted before it ever reaches the client device . In one example the electronic communication may be added to a spam filter associated with the client device such that future similar electronic communication may be detected.

In another example the security analysis server may analyze one or more reports from one or more security information provider s to determine whether the electronic communication is fraudulent. If the analysis server determines that the electronic communication is fraudulent it may cause the electronic communication to be automatically deleted from a client device that originally received the electronic communication. Or the security analysis server may cause the electronic communication to be automatically deleted before it ever reaches the client device . In one example the electronic communication may be added to a spam filter associated with the client device such that future similar electronic communication may be detected.

At operation the security analysis server causes a notification to be provided indicating that the electronic communication has been analyzed. For example the security analysis server may send a notification to a client device and the notification may be displayed to a user on the client device .

In various implementations the operating system manages hardware resources and provides common services. The operating system includes for example a kernel services and drivers . The kernel acts as an abstraction layer between the hardware and the other software layers consistent with some embodiments. For example the kernel provides memory management processor management e.g. scheduling component management networking and security settings among other functionality. The services can provide other common services for the other software layers. The drivers are responsible for controlling or interfacing with the underlying hardware according to some embodiments. For instance the drivers can include display drivers camera drivers BLUETOOTH or BLUETOOTH Low Energy drivers flash memory drivers serial communication drivers e.g. Universal Serial Bus USB drivers WI FI drivers audio drivers power management drivers and so forth.

In some embodiments the libraries provide a low level common infrastructure utilized by the applications . The libraries can include system libraries e.g. C standard library that can provide functions such as memory allocation functions string manipulation functions mathematic functions and the like. In addition the libraries can include API libraries such as media libraries e.g. libraries to support presentation and manipulation of various media formats such as Moving Picture Experts Group 4 MPEG4 Advanced Video Coding H.264 or AVC Moving Picture Experts Group Layer 3 MP3 . Advanced Audio Coding AAC Adaptive Multi Rate AMR audio codec. Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG or JPG or Portable Network Graphics PNG graphics libraries e.g. an OpenGL framework used to render in two dimensions 2D and three dimensions 3D in graphic content on a display database libraries e.g. SQLite to provide various relational database functions web libraries e.g. WebKit to provide web browsing functionality and the like. The libraries can also include a wide variety of other libraries to provide many other APIs to the applications .

The frameworks provide a high level common infrastructure that can be utilized by the applications according to some embodiments. For example the frameworks provide various graphic user interface GUI functions high level resource management high level location services and so forth. The frameworks can provide a broad spectrum of other APIs that can be utilized by the applications some of which may be specific to a particular operating system or platform.

In an example embodiment the applications include a home application a contacts application a browser application a book reader application a location application a media application a messaging application a game application and a broad assortment of other applications such as a third party applications . According to some embodiments the applications are programs that execute functions defined in the programs. Various programming languages can be employed to create one or more of the applications structured in a variety of manners such as object oriented programming languages e.g. Objective C Java or C or procedural programming languages e.g. C or assembly language . In a specific example the third party application e.g. an application developed using the ANDROID or IOS software development kit SDK by an entity other than the vendor of the particular platform may be mobile software running on a mobile operating system such as IOS ANDROID WINDOWS Phone or another mobile operating system. In this example the third party application can invoke the API calls provided by the operating system to facilitate functionality described herein.

Some embodiments may particularly include a security application . In certain embodiments this may be a stand alone application that operates to manage communications with a server system such as third party server s or server system . In other embodiments this functionality may be integrated with another application such as an email or messaging application or another such application. Security application may facilitate sending and receiving request messages to analyze potentially fraudulent electronic communications and provide the capability for a user to input data related to electronic communications via a touch interface keyboard or other mechanism of machine communication with a server system via I O components and receipt and storage of analysis data in memory . Functionality related to request messages to analyze potentially fraudulent electronic communications can be managed by security application using different frameworks libraries elements or operating system elements operating on a machine .

In various embodiments the machine comprises processors memory and I O components which can be configured to communicate with each other via a bus . In an example embodiment the processors e.g. a central processing unit CPU a reduced instruction set computing RISC processor a complex instruction set computing CISC processor a graphics processing unit GPU a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a radio frequency integrated circuit RFIC another processor or any suitable combination thereof include for example a processor and a processor that may execute the instructions . The term processor is intended to include multi core processors that may comprise two or more independent processors also referred to as cores that can execute instructions contemporaneously. Although shows multiple processors the machine may include a single processor with a single core a single processor with multiple cores e.g. a multi core processor multiple processors with a single core multiple processors with multiples cores or any combination thereof.

The memory comprises a main memory a static memory and a storage unit accessible to the processors via the bus according to some embodiments. The storage unit can include a machine readable medium on which are stored the instructions embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions can also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory within the static memory within at least one of the processors e.g. within the processor s cache memory or any suitable combination thereof during execution thereof by the machine . Accordingly in various embodiments the main memory the static memory and the processors are considered machine readable media .

As used herein the term memory refers to a machine readable medium able to store data temporarily or permanently and may be taken to include but not be limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM buffer memory flash memory and cache memory. While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database or associated caches and servers able to store the instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium or combination of multiple media that is capable of storing instructions e.g. instructions for execution by a machine e.g. machine such that the instructions when executed by one or more processors of the machine e.g. processors cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies described herein. Accordingly a machine readable medium refers to a single storage apparatus or device as well as cloud based storage systems or storage networks that include multiple storage apparatus or devices. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to one or more data repositories in the form of a solid state memory e.g. flash memory an optical medium a magnetic medium other non volatile memory e.g. erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or any suitable combination thereof. The term machine readable medium specifically excludes non statutory signals per se.

The I O components include a wide variety of components to receive input provide output produce output transmit information exchange information capture measurements and so on. In general it will be appreciated that the I O components can include many other components that are not shown in . The I O components are grouped according to functionality merely for simplifying the following discussion and the grouping is in no way limiting. In various example embodiments the I O components include output components and input components . The output components include visual components e.g. a display such as a plasma display panel PDP a light emitting diode LED display a liquid crystal display LCD a projector or a cathode ray tube CRT acoustic components e.g. speakers haptic components e.g. a vibratory motor other signal generators and so forth. The input components include alphanumeric input components e.g. a keyboard a touch screen configured to receive alphanumeric input a photo optical keyboard or other alphanumeric input components point based input components e.g. a mouse a touchpad a trackball a joystick a motion sensor or other pointing instruments tactile input components e.g. a physical button a touch screen that provides location and force of touches or touch gestures or other tactile input components audio input components e.g. a microphone and the like.

In some further example embodiments the I O components include biometric components motion components environmental components or position components among a wide array of other components. For example the biometric components include components to detect expressions e.g. hand expressions facial expressions vocal expressions body gestures or eye tracking measure biosignals e.g. blood pressure heart rate body temperature perspiration or brain waves identify a person e.g. voice identification retinal identification facial identification fingerprint identification or electroencephalogram based identification and the like. The motion components include acceleration sensor components e.g. accelerometer gravitation sensor components rotation sensor components e.g. gyroscope and so forth. The environmental components include for example illumination sensor components e.g. photometer temperature sensor components e.g. one or more thermometers that detect ambient temperature humidity sensor components pressure sensor components e.g. barometer acoustic sensor components e.g. one or more microphones that detect background noise proximity sensor components e.g. infrared sensors that detect nearby objects gas sensor components e.g. machine olfaction detection sensors gas detection sensors to detect concentrations of hazardous gases for safety or to measure pollutants in the atmosphere or other components that may provide indications measurements or signals corresponding to a surrounding physical environment. The position components include location sensor components e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS receiver component altitude sensor components e.g. altimeters or barometers that detect air pressure from which altitude may be derived orientation sensor components e.g. magnetometers and the like.

Communication can be implemented using a wide variety of technologies. The I O components may include communication components operable to couple the machine to a network or devices via a coupling and a coupling respectively. For example the communication components include a network interface component or another suitable device to interface with the network . In further examples communication components include wired communication components wireless communication components cellular communication components near field communication NFC components BLUETOOTH components e.g. BLUETOOTH Low Energy WI FI components and other communication components to provide communication via other modalities. The devices may be another machine or any of a wide variety of peripheral devices e.g. a peripheral device coupled via a Universal Serial Bus USB .

Moreover in some embodiments the communication components detect identifiers or include components operable to detect identifiers. For example the communication components include radio frequency identification RFID tag reader components. NFC smart tag detection components optical reader components e.g. an optical sensor to detect a one dimensional bar codes such as a Universal Product Code UPC bar code multi dimensional bar codes such as a Quick Response QR code Aztec Code Data Matrix Dataglyph MaxiCode PDF417 Ultra Code Uniform Commercial Code Reduced Space Symbology UCC RSS 2D bar codes and other optical codes acoustic detection components e.g. microphones to identify tagged audio signals or any suitable combination thereof. In addition a variety of information can be derived via the communication components such as location via Internet Protocol IP geo location location via WI FI signal triangulation location via detecting a BLUETOOTH or NFC beacon signal that may indicate a particular location and so forth.

In various example embodiments one or more portions of the network can be an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN the Internet a portion of the Internet a portion of the public switched telephone network PSTN a plain old telephone service POTS network a cellular telephone network a wireless network a WI FI network another type of network or a combination of two or more such networks. For example the network or a portion of the network may include a wireless or cellular network and the coupling may be a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA connection a Global System for Mobile communications GSM connection or another type of cellular or wireless coupling. In this example the coupling can implement any of a variety of types of data transfer technology such as Single Carrier Radio Transmission Technology 1 RTT Evolution Data Optimized EVDO technology General Packet Radio Service GPRS technology. Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE technology third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP including 3G fourth generation wireless 4G networks Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS High Speed Packet Access HSPA . Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE standard others defined by various standard setting organizations other long range protocols or other data transfer technology.

In example embodiments the instructions are transmitted or received over the network using a transmission medium via a network interface device e.g. a network interface component included in the communication components and utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP . Similarly in other example embodiments the instructions are transmitted or received using a transmission medium via the coupling e.g. a peer to peer coupling to the devices . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying the instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Furthermore the machine readable medium is non transitory in other words not having any transitory signals in that it does not embody a propagating signal. However labeling the machine readable medium non transitory should not be construed to mean that the medium is incapable of movement the medium should be considered as being transportable from one physical location to another. Additionally since the machine readable medium is tangible the medium may be considered to be a machine readable device.

Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter herein.

Although an overview of the inventive subject matter has been described with reference to specific example embodiments various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader scope of embodiments of the present disclosure

The embodiments illustrated herein are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed. Other embodiments may be used and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. The Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

As used herein the term or may be construed in either an inclusive or exclusive sense. Moreover plural instances may be provided for resources operations or structures described herein as a single instance. Additionally boundaries between various resources operations modules engines and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in a context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within a scope of various embodiments of the present disclosure. In general structures and functionality presented as separate resources in the example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or resource. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single resource may be implemented as separate resources. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within a scope of embodiments of the present disclosure as represented by the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

