---

title: Methods and systems for using actuated surface-attached posts for assessing biofluid rheology
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer readable media for using actuated surface-attached posts for assessing biofluid rheology are disclosed. According to one aspect, a method for testing properties of a biofluid specimen includes placing the specimen onto a micropost array having a plurality of microposts extending outwards from a substrate, wherein each micropost includes a proximal end attached to the substrate and a distal end opposite the proximal end, and generating an actuation force in proximity to the micropost array to actuate the microposts, thereby compelling at least some of the microposts to exhibit motion. The method further includes measuring the motion of at least one of the microposts in response to the actuation force and determining a property of the specimen based on the measured motion of the at least one micropost.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09612185&OS=09612185&RS=09612185
owner: The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
number: 09612185
owner_city: Chapel Hill
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160115
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 016 007 filed Aug. 30 2013 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 380 564 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 586 368 filed Mar. 2 2012 which is a national stage application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT Patent Application No. PCT US2010 040011 filed Jun. 25 2010 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 220 563 filed Jun. 25 2009 and which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 234 177 filed Aug. 14 2009 the disclosure of each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. CMS 0507151 awarded by the National Science Foundation and Grant No. EB002025 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The subject matter described herein relates to methods and systems for measuring physical properties of biofluids using surface attached actuated microposts. More particularly the subject matter described herein relates to methods and systems for using surface attached actuated microposts for assessing biofluid rheology.

The viscoelasticity of biofluids such as blood clots or mucus is critical to their performance. Measurement of viscoelastic properties of these fluids can provide valuable information to medical professionals to aid in the diagnosis and treatment of patients. For example the speed and strength at which a blood clot forms may be affected by genetics illness medication or environment. Analyzing the physical properties of a blood clot may provide important information that is useful in determining how well a treatment is working or is likely to work or perhaps that a treatment intervention is necessary.

Currently clot elasticity is measured either at the point of care POC usually accompanying surgery or within an analytical lab setting. Techniques for understanding clot viscoelasticity in a point of care system use several different strategies. One technology employs flow through a tube that is monitored in some way such as by an optical detection. Another technology uses magnetic beads that become suspended in the developing clot and the beads are caused to move through the application of a magnetic field. The detection of the moving beads is performed by optics and the cessation of the bead movement is an indication that the clot has formed.

In an analytical lab setting techniques such as thromboelastography TEG can test the efficiency of coagulation in the blood. TEG uses a macroscopic quantity of specimen and measures the viscoelasticity by moving two surfaces with respect to each other in shear. The geometry is usually that of concentric cylinders. Similar techniques are used for measuring the viscoelasticity of other biofluids such as mucus.

There are disadvantages associated with the current methods of testing rheological properties of biofluids. Laboratory techniques such as TEG are not implemented as high throughput instruments so tests must be performed essentially one at a time. Point of care technologies are not as sensitive or quantitative as laboratory tests and so cannot replace laboratory analysis. In addition macroscopic quantities of specimens are generally needed for laboratory analysis.

Accordingly in light of these disadvantages associated with biofluid rheology techniques there exists a need for methods and systems for using surface attached actuated microposts for assessing biofluid rheology.

According to one aspect the subject matter described herein includes a method that includes placing the specimen onto a micropost array having a plurality of microposts extending outwards from a substrate wherein each micropost includes a proximal end attached to the substrate and a distal end opposite the proximal end and generating an actuation force in proximity to the micropost array to actuate the microposts thereby compelling at least some of the microposts to exhibit motion. The method further includes measuring the motion of at least one of the microposts in response to the actuation force and determining a property of the specimen based on the measured motion of the at least one micropost.

According to another aspect the subject matter described herein includes a system for measuring a property of a biofluid specimen which includes a micropost array having a plurality of microposts extending outwards from a substrate an actuation unit for generating an actuation force in proximity to the micropost to compel at least some of the microposts to exhibit motion a motion detection unit for measuring the motion of at least one of the microposts exhibiting motion and a processing unit for determining a property of the specimen based on the measured motion of the microposts.

According to another aspect the subject matter described herein includes a method of fabricating a micropost array that includes depositing into at least some pores of a substrate a material which has at least one of a metallic magnetic thermal optical and ferroelectric characteristic. The method further includes filling the pores with a curable material that is flexible when cured such that the curable material interconnects the pores along at least one planar surface of the substrate. The method further includes curing the material and removing the substrate to form the micropost array.

According to another aspect the subject matter described herein includes a method of fabricating a micropost array that includes filling a plurality of vertically aligned pores in a substrate with a curable material that is flexible when cured. The curable material includes a plurality of nanoparticles. The method further includes applying a force to draw the nanoparticles in one direction within the pores such that the distribution of nanoparticles is non uniform. The method further includes curing the curable material and removing the substrate to form the micropost array.

The subject matter described herein for using surface attached actuated microposts for assessing biofluid rheology may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. As such the terms function or module as used herein refer to hardware software and or firmware for implementing the feature being described. In one exemplary implementation the subject matter described herein may be implemented using a computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable instructions that when executed by the processor of a computer control the computer to perform steps. Exemplary computer readable media suitable for implementing the subject matter described herein include non transitory computer readable media such as disk memory devices chip memory devices programmable logic devices and application specific integrated circuits. In addition a computer readable medium that implements the subject matter described herein may be located on a single device or computing platform or may be distributed across multiple devices or computing platforms.

In accordance with the subject matter disclosed herein systems methods and computer readable media are provided for methods and systems for using actuated surface attached posts to assess biofluid rheology. The subject matter disclosed herein is directed to the application of an applied force such as an electric magnetic thermal or sonic force to flexible microposts of a micropost array where the array is made up at least in part of an elastic material such as an elastomer. The viscoelastic properties of a biofluid specimen may be measured by placing the biofluid on or near such microposts and applying an actuating force to the microposts. The subject matter further includes measuring the movement or change in movement over time of the microposts. Microposts of a micropost array may be located for example in a multiwell plate for high throughput applications on a tab to be used with a point of care device or in a format appropriate for a bench top laboratory device.

There are many possible embodiments that fall within the scope of the present subject matter. The broader inventive concept will now be discussed as a basis for detailed embodiments to follow. Embodiments of the present subject matter are based on the detection and measurement of movement exhibited by microposts in a micropost array on which a specimen of interest is placed and an actuation force is applied. The detected movement may then be analyzed to obtain the desired information about the specimen.

For example one exemplary method of the present subject matter includes placing a biofluid specimen such as blood onto a micropost array having a plurality of flexible microposts extending outwards from a substrate base.

The term micropost array is herein used to describe an array of small posts extending outwards from a substrate that typically range from 1 to 100 micrometers in height. In one embodiment microposts of a micropost array may be vertically aligned. Notably each micropost includes a proximal end that is attached to the substrate base and a distal end or tip that is opposite the proximal end. The term biofluid is used herein to refer to any fluid created by the body including but not limited to blood mucus e.g. sputum ocular fluid sinus fluid and cervical fluid synovial fluid pus and excretions resulting from burns.

Once the biofluid specimen is in place an actuation force is generated in proximity to the micropost array that compels at least some of the microposts to exhibit motion. As used herein the term actuation force refers to the force applied to the microposts. For example the actuation force may include a magnetic thermal sonic or electric force. Notably the actuation force may be applied as a function of frequency or amplitude or as an impulse force i.e. a step function . Similarly other actuation forces may be used without departing from the scope of the present subject matter such as fluid flow across the micropost array.

As the microposts exhibit motion in response to the actuation force the motion of the microposts may be measured or detected. The motion detection system may be configured to measure the motion of individual or specific microposts groups of microposts or all the microposts. The means for detecting and measuring this micropost behavior may include an optical magnetic sonic or electrical tracking system. These detection systems are described in greater detail below.

Lastly after the motion of the microposts has been measured the measurement data is provided to a processing unit that processes the data in order to determine at least one property of the specimen based on the measured motion. For example as a blood specimen begins to clot the motion of the microposts becomes restricted and the resulting measurements may be used to determine clotting time.

Exemplary properties of a biofluid specimen may include clotting characteristics chemical properties rheological properties physical properties and the like. In one embodiment the processing unit may be configured to use existing clot measurement assays including but not limited to PT PTT APPT and INR assays to determine clotting characteristics of a biofluid specimen i.e. blood . The processing unit may also or alternatively be configured to determine the clotting time of blood as described above or the breakdown time of a blood clot i.e. measurements over a period of time . In another embodiment particularly where the motion of a particular micropost or group of microposts was measured the processing unit may be configured to use the micropost motion measurement data to determine the heterogeneity of the specimen. Other embodiments may determine for example the effect of a drug on a specimen or may detect the presence of DNA in a sample. Notably data of this type has many practical uses such as for detecting diseases or prescribing medication based on the rheological properties of the biofluid specimen. Similarly the processing unit may be used as a chemical sensor by adding a reagent or enzyme to the microposts.

Materials used to fabricate the micropost array may vary. The micropost array includes at least some elastic material e.g. an elastomer to allow for the reactive motion of the microposts. The microposts themselves may be entirely or partially made up of an elastomer on either a flexible or non flexible substrate material. Alternatively the microposts may be made up of a non flexible material so long as the substrate base material is elastic to allow the microposts to move in response to the specimen and the applied force. A micropost array as described herein may be considered biomimetic cilia i.e. an array of silicone formed structures that resembles biological cilia.

In one embodiment the elastomer composing the micropost may include nanoparticles of various materials dispersed throughout which allows for the fine tuning of properties of the microposts for particular applications. As used herein nanoparticles include but are not limited to metallic ferromagnetic ferroelectric thermal or optical particles. Furthermore nanoparticles suspended in the micropost material may be non uniformly distributed throughout the microposts such that a higher concentration of particles may exist on one side or end of the microposts. Alternatively the microposts may be fabricated to include a piece of a solid material such as a rod or a shell which may extend for the full height of a micropost or only a portion of the height of a micropost. Additional embodiments may include the coating of the microposts after array fabrication which may be applied obliquely to coat one side of the microposts particularly for thermal actuation methods.

The term ferromagnetic is used herein to refer to any magnetic material including but not limited to ferromagnetic diamagnetic paramagnetic super paramagnetic ferrimagnetic and ferrofluid materials. Likewise the term ferroelastomer is used herein to refer to an elastomer having any type of magnetic nanoparticles dispersed throughout regardless of how the nanoparticles are bonded to the elastomer and including but not limited to ferromagnetic paramagnetic and super paramagnetic particles. The term ferroelectric is used herein to refer to any dielectric material including but not limited to piezoelectric pyroelectric and paraelectric materials.

The material selected for the micropost depends on the intended use of the micropost array particularly with respect to the actuation method i.e. the nature of the force to be applied to the microposts. When applying an electrical force i.e. an electric actuation method properties of the micropost material to consider include the dielectric constant polarizability and charge of the material. For a magnetic actuation method i.e. where a magnetic force is applied significant properties of the micropost material include permeability and hysteresis.

Properties of the micropost material to consider for a thermal actuation method include the thermal expansion coefficient absorbance and heat capacity of the material. When microposts are actuated by flow i.e. a fluid is flowed across the microposts and the resultant post deflection is measured factors to consider include the geometry diameter and length and elastic properties of the microposts.

Detection mechanisms for measuring movement of the microposts may also vary and typically depend on the fabrication material of the micropost array. Detection mechanisms may include but are not limited to magnetic optical sonic or electric detection systems or devices. In one embodiment a magnetic detection means would include magnetic material in the microposts and may utilize pickup coils microelectromechanical MEM systems or solid state devices and systems. Similarly in one embodiment an optical detection means would include optical material in the microposts i.e. materials or particles having optical properties including but not limited to absorptive reflective or scattering properties in order to measure the reflection transmission or scattering of light as the microposts move particularly when the microposts have been fabricated to include reflective material on their tips and or lateral sides. In one embodiment optical detection means may include an imaging system a scattered light measuring system a reflected light measuring system or a transmitted light measuring system. Sonic and electric detection methods may operate in similar manners. Detection and measurement of micropost movement may vary in coarseness. Namely measurements may be performed on one or more individual microposts a group of microposts or all microposts associated with a particular specimen.

Regardless of the specific detection mechanism used in a given embodiment of the present subject matter the detection mechanism is configured to measure the amplitude and phase of the micropost motion. In one embodiment changes in amplitude or phase may be measured as a function of frequency. As the microposts oscillate in response to an applied actuation force changes in amplitude or phase may be used to determine properties of the specimen being analyzed. A processing unit may be used to calculate based on the measured motion of the microposts a variety of properties of a biofluid specimen. For example one such property may include clotting time if the biofluid specimen is blood. The present subject matter may also be used for linear or non linear rheology or for chemical sensing. When used for chemical sensing a substance such as an enzyme chemical or drug may be applied to the microposts and or the specimen surrounding the microposts and the response of the specimen may be determined by measuring the motion of the microposts.

Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary embodiments of the present subject matter examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

Phase 2 of the exemplary photolithographic fabrication method is illustrated in . In step silicon substrate now etched to have a plurality of pores having iron deposited therein is again coated with photoresist . Mask which may also comprise a chrome mask is then applied to photoresist covered substrate and photoresist layer is exposed to UV rays . Uncross linked photoresist is then removed using a commercial developer. Mask which differs from mask defines the diameter of the micropost material surrounding the deposited iron in magnetic microposts. Mask also defines the diameter and spacing of non magnetic microposts i.e. mask widens the pores around the deposited iron and creates new pores for microposts that will not be magnetic. In one embodiment all microposts include deposited magnetic material. In another embodiment some microposts of the micropost array do not include magnetic material. Using this exemplary method of fabrication the location arrangement and number of microposts that will respond to an actuation force can be designed or controlled. In step the exposed silicon from silicon substrate is again etched e.g. using DRIE to the same depth as in phase 1. The remaining photoresist may be removed. In step the newly created and widened pores are filled with uncured micropost material such as polydimethylsiloxane PDMS . The PDMS filled silicon substrate is then cured. In one embodiment the substrate is cured at eighty degrees and for one hour. In step the cured PDMS micropost array is removed from silicon substrate . Micropost array may be removed for example by gently peeling the cured PDMS off of silicon substrate or by using a solution to specifically etch away the silicon leaving behind only micropost array . For example micropost array is depicted in as having a plurality of flexible attached microposts wherein at least some microposts contain a single piece of embedded iron essentially at the distal ends or tips.

In an alternate embodiment a material such as a thin polycarbonate sheet may be used to mold the microposts rather than using a silicon substrate. Namely only one photolithographic mask is used to define the size of the magnetic rod within each micropost. In this embodiment all of the microposts of micropost array include magnetic material. The fabrication process for this embodiment essentially follows the steps of phase 1 of the fabrication process illustrated in . However in this embodiment prior to iron deposition holes in the polycarbonate sheet may be backed with a material such as silver which may be deposited for example using a pulsed laser deposition system. The iron is then deposited and the remaining photoresist is removed in the same manner as described above. Phase 2 of this embodiment varies slightly from that described above in that additional pores are not created i.e. there is no second mask and the micropost array will only contain magnetic microposts rather than a combination of magnetic and non magnetic microposts. The polycarbonate pores each containing iron deposits may then be widened by etching e.g. using 4M sodium hydroxide . The widened pores are then filled with PDMS and cured as described above. After curing the silver backing may be removed. In one embodiment the silver backing is removed using a 50 nitric acid wash. The micropost array may then be removed from the polycarbonate sheet. For example the array may be removed by using dichloromethane to dissolve the polycarbonate which thereby releases the array.

In an alternate embodiment magnetic material may be deposited along the sidewalls of the pores to form a shell like structure within the pore using electrochemical deposition techniques. An exemplary fabrication process is illustrated in . In step silicon substrate is coated with photoresist and then masked with mask . In one embodiment mask is a quartz mask with chrome features. Mask defines the diameter and spacing for all posts in the array. The masked photoresist is exposed to UV rays and rinsed with commercial developer to remove the uncross linked photoresist. In step the uncovered areas of silicon substrate are then etched preferably with deep reactive ion etcher DRIE to create a plurality of pores within the substrate. The depth of the etched pores will determine the height of the microposts. In step a magnetic material e.g. nickel is deposited into at least some of the DRIE etched pores in silicon substrate and the remaining cross linked photoresist is removed. Nickel layer may be deposited using electrochemical deposition. Nickel layer may line the sidewalls of the pores for the full height of the pores or may be selectively deposited only on for example the bottom half of the pore s sidewalls. Once the magnetic material has been deposited in the desired thickness and height the pores are filled with curable micropost material and cured in step . In step the cured micropost array is removed from substrate as described above in the description of .

Although these embodiments have been described using a silicon substrate positive photoresist and photolithography techniques a negative photoresist or other lithographic techniques and materials may be employed without departing from the intended scope of the presently disclosed subject matter. Further masks and as well as membrane may be specifically designed and manufactured to be used with a multiwell plate which is described below.

As mentioned above one technique for measuring the physical or rheological properties of a biofluid specimen is by applying a magnetic force to a micropost that includes magnetic material via magnetic fields. For example a magnetic micropost of a micropost array such as micropost array may experience a force or torque from magnetic fields and field gradients. Notably the magnetic force may act on microposts on which a specimen of interest is placed. As indicated above the specimen may be biofluid such as blood or mucus. Similarly the magnetic microposts may be characterized as having one of several magnetic properties paramagnetic ferromagnetic diamagnetic etc. and some or all of the microposts in the array may be magnetic. When a magnetic force is applied to the microposts the microposts containing ferromagnetic material move in a way that is characteristic of the applied magnetic force and the forces that are imposed by the biofluid specimen. The motion of a micropost as influenced by the magnetic field may then be measured. The response of the micropost to the magnetic field can also be used as a measure of the specimen s mechanical properties such as inherent linear and non linear viscoelastic properties and physical properties.

In one embodiment the present subject matter includes a standalone device that is adapted to test various properties of a biofluid specimen. One such embodiment of a standalone device for testing properties of a biofluid specimen includes a point of care POC handheld device. For example is a block diagram illustrating an exemplary point of care system according to an embodiment of the subject matter described herein. In one embodiment the present subject matter may be implemented as a point of care system embodied within a portable device. depicts a portable device that includes an actuation system a motion detection system and a processing unit . Device may also include an ingress port which is adapted to receive an inserted disposable tab . Tab may include an end portion which comprises a micropost array such as micropost array . The end portion is configured to receive a small sample size of a biofluid specimen e.g. blood mucus synovial fluid etc. . The microposts or cilia as described above may include silicone based pillars or microposts some of which may contain a ferromagnetic material at the distal end i.e. the end that is not attached to the substrate base . In one embodiment the microposts may be vertically aligned. The microposts may also be stamped with a substance such as fibronectin an extracellular matrix protein to attract cells when placed on micropost tips. In one embodiment tab may be inserted in port such that end portion containing the specimen is close enough to actuation system for a actuation force e.g. a magnetic force generated by actuation system to effect movement of the microposts.

In one embodiment actuation system includes a low power system i.e. which may be electrically powered by either a small battery or manual actuation produced by a small hand crank . For example actuation system may include a small spinning permanent magnet adapted to generate a time varying magnetic field. Device may be controlled by a user to apply the magnetic field to end portion of tab thereby causing motion e.g. oscillation of microposts on the end portion . As the microposts are compelled to move by actuation system motion detection system may measure and record the movement of the microposts on end portion . In one embodiment motion detection system may comprise a magnetic pickup coil that produces current based on the movement of the microposts in a magnetic field. For example motion detection system may then be used to measure the amplitude and or the phase of the generated current in the magnetic pickup coil. The amplitude and phase of the generated current corresponds to the motion of the microposts. In an alternate embodiment motion detection system may instead include an imaging system that detects movement of the microposts using a camera or other suitable imaging apparatus. In other implementations motion detection system may measure the scattering transmission or reflection of light by the microposts. In such an implementation the tips of the microposts that are not attached to the substrate may be metalized or otherwise treated with a reflective material to make the microposts scatter light.

The data produced by motion detection system may be forwarded to processing unit for calculations and analysis. Alternatively device may be provisioned with a radio uplink not shown to wirelessly provide the data to a processing unit on a separate computer. The calculations and analysis performed by the processing unit may include determining a measure of fluid rheology based on the force applied by actuation system and the resulting motion detected by motion detection system .

The actuation and motion detection systems for a high throughput screening system i.e. multiforce generation subsystem and imaging and tracking optics subsystem may be similar in operation to those described above for the point of care system. One physical difference between an actuation system for a high throughput screening system and a point of care system is that the actuation system may be replicated for each well or small group of adjacent wells in a multiwell microtiter plate. The motion detection system for a multiwell microtiter plate may include but is not limited to an optical system that measures scattered light to detect movement of the microposts an imaging system including a camera that images each well or group of wells in the microtiter plate or a pick up coil that measures amplitude and phase of a current produced by motion the microposts in each well.

In one embodiment multiforce generation subsystem comprises a magnetic drive block such as exciter assembly which is shown in . Subsystem may also include an appropriate cooling mechanism not shown to dissipate excess heat or to maintain system at a target temperature. In one embodiment subsystem is capable of producing forces of significant magnitude e.g. forces greater than 10 nanoNewtons in multiple directions over a three dimensional sphere and can be varied at frequencies up to more than three kilohertz.

High throughput screening system also includes a multiforce plate subsystem . Multiforce plate subsystem may comprise a microtiter well plate such as multiwell plate shown in which includes a plurality of specimen wells . The well plate may also be coupled with a cover glass sheet that serves as the bottom of the well plate. Multiforce plate subsystem may also include a plurality of field forming poles that are used to form a magnetic or electric coupling with excitation poles of multiforce generation subsystem . This is better illustrated in where multiforce plate subsystem is represented as multiforce plate .

Control and measurement subsystem may also include a mechanical properties module that is used to measure the mechanical properties of the specimen depending on the measured movement of the microposts. An imaging and tracking optical system may also be employed to perform several kinds of measurements either simultaneously with the application of force or after the force sequence has been applied. For example optical system may include a single specimen imaging system with a robotic stage that can systematically position each well over a microscope objective. Alternatively optical system may include an array based system that is capable of imaging several wells simultaneously. The recorded images may be used to track the micropost position and the like.

Notably field forming poles may be positioned in proximity to wells . Each well may contain at least a portion of micropost array . In one embodiment microposts of micropost array may include microposts containing ferromagnetic material that may be magnetized or ferroelectric material that may be polarized. In a magnetic application magnetic microposts can include paramagnetic or diamagnetic material. In an electrical application microposts of micropost array can contain polarized charged or chargeable particles. shows that the force is not activated since excitation poles have not been brought into proximity or contact with field forming poles of multiforce plate and coils have not been energized . Notably in an embodiment where the actuation is caused by magnetic force excitation poles and field forming poles do not need to physically touch once the excitation pole is brought into proximity of the field forming pole and the coil is activated the magnetic circuit is complete a magnetic field is generated and the magnetic microposts of micropost array are actuated.

In one embodiment the typical operation of system involves the multiforce plate being loaded with specimens processed and then engaged with exciter assembly . Together the combined system may be placed above an inverted microscope objective to measure micropost motion during the application of force via a magnetic field. Alternatively micropost motion may be measured or observed through change in current in a pick up coil as described above.

In one embodiment control and measurement subsystem may be designed to be computer controlled and is able to generate flux from each of coils . The control of the magnetic flux at each coil is achieved by coordinating the currents in the coils so that the coils generate flux either in a limited set of nearby specimen wells or generate fields and forces in every well on multiforce plate . Equations to determine which coils to activate for a given configuration of activated specimen wells may be solved by standard linear equations of circuit theory with known correspondences between magnetic circuit and electrical circuit quantities.

In addition to applying a magnetic field to a plurality of specimen wells the present subject matter is also capable of selectively powering a single designated well in a multiforce plate according to one embodiment of the subject matter described herein. is a diagram illustrating selectively exciting a single well of a multiforce plate according to an embodiment of the subject matter described herein. In flux return plate represents a sheet of high permeability magnetic material that serves as a path for the return of magnetic flux. The cylinders represent coils that are responsible for generating the flux to be delivered via excitation poles . Cover glass plate represents the bottom of a multiwell plate e.g. a microtiter plate which is depicted as a plurality of specimen wells each of which include at least a portion of micropost array . In one embodiment cover glass plate is integrated with thin foil field forming poles to form a pole plate. The magnetic drive block or exciter assembly has a single magnetic flux return plate that is coupled to excitation poles that may be positioned to contact this layer of field forming poles . In addition to excitation poles that generate flux via coils exciter assembly may include flux return posts which are not equipped with coils. Flux return posts are adapted to complete the magnetic circuit by providing a return path to flux return plate . By providing a return path for the flux for each separate well control over individual wells may be achieved. For example the fields and forces applied to a given specimen well are primarily generated by the current in the coil feeding that particular specimen well. This is shown in where excitation poles and flux return posts are brought into contact with field forming poles . Specifically because excitation pole is brought into contact with field forming pole and coil is activated only magnetic flux is generated. Flux is shown as a line that circles through the current coil to field forming pole across the gap in specimen well back up through flux return post and then through magnetic flux return plate to complete the magnetic circuit. Notably flux is not present in specimen wells and because coils and are not activated.

In an alternative embodiment magnetic flux return plate may be replaced by a local return path that serves each coil . This may include a cylindrical cap over each coil with flux routed from one end of coil through field forming pole and back through the outer cylinder to the other end of the coil . This implementation may be useful for isolating each well from all of the other wells and by allowing maximum flexibility in the experimental methodology.

The path of the flux is shown as a solid line that closes on itself linking a coil in exciter assembly . In this configuration each coil is assigned to one specimen well. When the coil receives current flux is generated in excitation pole and coupled to a corresponding field forming pole thereby applying a force to a magnetic material such as a magnetic micropost of micropost array in the corresponding specimen well . Notably the flux path of flux is localized to a single specimen well.

In one embodiment the present subject matter may be used to apply an electric field to electrically charged particles or molecules in at least some microposts of specimen well . This may be accomplished by applying an electrical potential to the excitation pole instead of applying a magnetic potential via the coil winding and coupling it to the field forming pole to form an electric field in the specimen well which in turn causes microposts having polarized or charged particles to move.

It should be noted that show the operation of the designed system where a schematic cross section of exciter assembly is located over multiforce plate . It should be noted that are illustrated in schematic form whose geometry is representative of the relationship between coils specimen wells and flux return path. The actual design may not have a cut cross section as depicted in . In an alternate embodiment exciter assembly may be located below multiforce plate with excitation poles pointing upwards. Additionally in other embodiments multiwell plate may first be attached to micropost array with the combination then being placed on top of a pole plate.

Multiforce plate may be designed to have field forming poles to be in contact with or proximity to all of the wells simultaneously. In one embodiment field forming poles may be separate from exciter assembly for convenient changing of the field configuration at the specimen array. In addition multiforce plate may be either incorporated into the specimen array i.e. multiwell plate or be separate. In one embodiment multiforce plate is incorporated into the multiwell plate so that each well has a number of field forming poles projecting into the specimen well to interact with the microposts of micropost array located in specimen well .

Many other field forming pole configurations may be envisioned in the specimen well. One possible configuration may include a pole pole geometry which entails two identical poles that may have large forces near each of them but due to symmetry have low force in the center. Similarly a comb geometry with multiple sharp tips each providing force near its region has been considered. The comb configuration may provide larger effective force area product allowing for the application of significant force to more microposts within the specimen well.

The cylindrical openings containing the central coil posts are used to hold the coils that generate flux e.g. a wire may be wrapped around coil post and contained within cylindrical opening . The flux passes through the central post and is coupled into the field forming poles that are mounted to the pole plate on the bottom of a multiforce plate. The flux returns through flux return posts that enter through the multiforce plate through two wells neighboring the specimen well. In one embodiment exciter assembly may be machined from soft iron for high permeability and saturation and low hysteresis.

In block the effect on the microposts such as those within specimen well is measured. In one embodiment the exhibited motion of all the microposts is measured and may be averaged for use in determining a property of the specimen. In another embodiment the movement of one or more particular microposts or groups of microposts may be measured and used in calculations.

In block the measured data is processed to determine at least one of a physical chemical or rheological property of the specimen.

It will be understood that various details of the presently disclosed subject matter may be changed without departing from the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation.

