---

title: Method and system for situational awareness for emergency response
abstract: Disclosed are systems and methods for sending emergency alerts. In some embodiments, sensors and wearable devices may trigger and send the emergency alerts and/or warning signals via available communication devices. Multi-media emergency alerts are also disclosed that include situational awareness information for effective and efficient emergency response.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09659484&OS=09659484&RS=09659484
owner: RAPIDSOS, INC.
number: 09659484
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20161102
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 249 551 filed Nov. 2 2015 U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 274 571 filed Jan. 4 2016 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 311 719 filed Mar. 22 2016 each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

People in emergencies may request help by calling a designated emergency number for example a three digit number like 911 or a direct local access telephone number i.e. a telephone number tied to a specific emergency dispatch center . With the advent of mobile communication devices e.g. mobile phones or wearable devices emergency dispatch centers are receiving a large number of calls from such devices but are poorly equipped to augment their ability to respond to emergencies using currently available technologies.

Present day wearable devices e.g. the Apple Watch include capabilities to sense and measure health indicators about a user. Such health indicators may include pulse rate heart rate elevation movement patterns the amount of daily movement temperature and blood oxygen levels. Present day wearable devices may measure such health indicators using sensors such as photodetectors operating in the visible and infrared spectrums of light to measure reflection back of certain light emitted by the device and accelerometers to measure displacement of the device. Wearable devices may also include geographic positioning systems such as GPS to track the geographic location of the device.

Increasingly many residential spaces office buildings and public spaces are equipped with a variety of sensors for example temperature sensors or motion sensors. In many instances these sensors also have the ability to communicate their sensed information over wireless channels for example over Bluetooth or Wi Fi communication or over wired channels for example fiber optic cables using Ethernet technologies. In some instances the sensors are also able to communicate with each other by forming an ad hoc wireless mesh network within a home or an office building and thus share a multitude of sensed information with each other.

In one aspect described herein is a system comprising a communication device a wearable device comprising at least one processor a memory at least one sensor a network element a user interface and instructions executable by the at least one processor to create an emergency alert application comprising a sensor module receiving data from the at least one sensor an interface module receiving at least one emergency indication from the user interface and a communication module establishing an indirect communication link with an emergency management system the communication link sending an alert to the communication device for delivery to the emergency management system wherein the alert comprises the at least one emergency indication data from the at least one sensor and location information from the wearable device or the communication device receiving at least one data request from the communication device wherein the data request originates from the emergency management system and responding to the at least one data request by sending updated data from the at least one sensor to the communication device for delivery to the emergency management system to provide situational awareness during an emergency response a server configured to provide an emergency management system application comprising an alert module receiving an alert from a communication device wherein said alert originates from a wearable device wherein said alert comprises at least one emergency indication data from the at least one sensor and location information from the wearable device or the communication device an update module sending at least one data request to the communication device for delivery to the wearable device and receiving updated data from the communication device that originates from the at least one sensor of the wearable device. In some embodiments the communication device comprises an indirect communication link module receiving an alert from the wearable device and delivering the alert to the emergency management system wherein the alert is transmitted as a digital signal. In further embodiments the communication device is selected from the group consisting of mobile phone computer router server game console Bluetooth device infrared device and modem. In even further embodiments the communication device is a mobile phone. In some embodiments the communication link sends an alert to a communication device for delivery to an emergency management system. In some embodiments the communication device requires authentication for the wearable device to establish a communication link. In further embodiments the wearable device enables a user to provide authentication to the communication device to establish a communication link. In some embodiments the communication module selects a communication device from a list of communication devices for receiving the alert. In further embodiments the communication module selects a communication device based on proximity to the emergency management system. In even further embodiments proximity is calculated from the latency of communications between the communication device and the emergency management system. In further embodiments the list of communication devices comprises devices suitable for communicating with the wearable device. In further embodiments the communication module selects a communication device suitable for directly communicating with wearable device based on communication link quality wherein the each communication device is scored according to one or more factors relevant to communication link quality between each communication device and the wearable device. In even further embodiments the one or more factors are selected from the group consisting of signal strength channel latency error rate availability of wireless or wired channels for communication between the wearable device and the communication device and transmission delay between the wearable device and the communication device. In some embodiments the indirect communication link further comprises sending an alert to a routing device for delivery to a communication device when no communication device suitable for directly communicating with the wearable device is available. In further embodiments the communication module selects a routing device from a list of routing devices for receiving the alert. In even further embodiments the communication module selects a routing device based on proximity to the emergency management system. In still further embodiments proximity is calculated from the latency of communications between the routing device and the emergency management system. In even further embodiments the list of routing devices comprises devices suitable for communicating with the wearable device. In still further embodiments the communication module selects a routing device suitable for directly communicating with the wearable device based on communication link quality wherein the each routing device is scored according to one or more factors relevant to communication link quality between each routing device and the emergency alert device. In still further embodiments the one or more factors are selected from the group consisting of signal strength channel latency error rate availability of wireless or wired channels for communication between the wearable device and the routing device and transmission delay between the wearable device and the routing device. In some embodiments a user uses a communication device to send an alert comprising data from the at least one sensor. In some embodiments the alert comprises at least one multimedia message. In further embodiments the at least one multimedia message comprises a plurality of data types. In even further embodiments the plurality of data types is one or more of text sound image video meta data user inputted data locational information or a combination thereof. In still further embodiments the wearable device provides at least one of the plurality of data types in the multimedia message. In still further embodiments the communication device provides at least one of the plurality of data types in the multimedia message. In some embodiments the alert delivered to the emergency management system comprises information about the communication device wherein the information is selected from the group consisting of location identity of a user of the communication device and relationship between a user of the communication device and a user of the wearable device. In further embodiments the emergency management system converts the multimedia message into a compatible format before delivering the multimedia message to an emergency dispatch center. In some embodiments the user interface provides a plurality of emergency indications for the user to select from wherein each said indication connotes a different type of emergency situation. In further embodiments the type of emergency situation is selected from the group consisting of medical police fire and vehicle accident. In even further embodiments the type of emergency situation is selected from the group consisting of natural disaster earthquake fire flood tornado hurricane sink hole tsunami thunderstorm hail storm whirlpool cardiac arrest stroke seizure anaphylactic shock cut abrasion contusion stab wound bug bite snake bite animal attack robbery armed robbery home invasion battery terrorist attack chemical spill explosion gas leak and drowning. In some embodiments the user interface comprises a panic option wherein an alert is transmitted immediately through all available channels and communication links upon selection of the panic option. In some embodiments the at least one sensor detects at least one physiological parameter of a user. In some embodiments the at least one sensor detects at least two three four five six seven eight nine or ten physiological parameters of a user. In some embodiments the at least one physiological parameter is selected from the group consisting of pulse rate blood pressure skin temperature ear temperature sweat characteristics salt levels in sweat pupil dilation respiration rate blood oxygen level blood alcohol level and blood glucose level of the user. In further embodiments the sensor is configured to detect at least one environmental parameter. In some embodiments the environmental parameter is selected from the group consisting of light motion temperature pressure humidity vibration magnetic field sound smoke carbon monoxide radiation hazardous chemicals acid base reactive compounds volatile organic compounds and smog. In some embodiments the system further comprises a sensor database storing data collected by at least one sensor. In further embodiments each sensor in the database is assigned a universal calling number. In even further embodiments a communication device or an emergency management system can place a data call to the universal calling number of the sensor to request data. In further embodiments the data comprises real time data obtained from the at least one sensor. In further embodiments the data comprises historical sensor data obtained from the at least one sensor. In further embodiments the data comprises real time and historical data obtained from the at least one sensor. In some embodiments the at least one sensor is selected from the group of sensors consisting of an optical electrical magnetic electromagnetic chemical electrochemical UV light pressure velocity sound thermal and mechanical sensor. In further embodiments the sensor readings indicate an emergency situation when a sensor reading falls outside of an alarm threshold said threshold defined by a range of values. In some embodiments the at least one sensor is selected from the group consisting of a heart rate monitor thermometer a respirometer a blood glucose monitor an electrolyte sensor an electrical conductance meter a blood pressure sensor a blood oxygen sensor an EMG sensor an EEG sensor an ECG sensor a body hydration sensor a carbon dioxide sensor a carbon monoxide sensor a smoke detector a blood alcohol sensor and a Geiger counter. In further embodiments the sensor readings indicate an emergency situation when a moving average of the sensor readings falls outside of an alarm threshold for a minimum period of time. In further embodiments the sensor readings indicate an emergency situation when a moving average of the sensor readings falls outside of an alarm threshold said threshold defined by a range of values. In even further embodiments the sensor readings indicate an emergency situation when a sensor reading falls outside of an alarm threshold for a minimum period of time. In still further embodiments the minimum period of time is at least 1 second at least 2 seconds at least 3 seconds at least 4 seconds at least 5 seconds at least 6 seconds at least 7 seconds at least 8 seconds at least 9 seconds at least 10 seconds at least 11 seconds at least 12 seconds at least 13 seconds at least 14 seconds at least 15 seconds at least 30 seconds at least 45 seconds at least 60 seconds at least 2 minutes at least 3 minutes at least 4 minutes at least 5 minutes at least 10 minutes at least 20 minutes at least 30 minutes at least 40 minutes at least 50 minutes or at least 60 minutes. In further embodiments the alarm threshold is set by user input. In further embodiments the alarm threshold is calculated using historical data from the at least one sensor. In some embodiments the wearable device sends an alert autonomously without user input when data from the at least one sensor indicates an emergency situation. In further embodiments the minimum period of time is at least 1 second at least 2 seconds at least 3 seconds at least 4 seconds at least 5 seconds at least 6 seconds at least 7 seconds at least 8 seconds at least 9 seconds at least 10 seconds at least 11 seconds at least 12 seconds at least 13 seconds at least 14 seconds at least 15 seconds at least 30 seconds at least 45 seconds at least 60 seconds at least 2 minutes at least 3 minutes at least 4 minutes at least 5 minutes at least 10 minutes at least 20 minutes at least 30 minutes at least 40 minutes at least 50 minutes or at least 60 minutes. In further embodiments the alarm threshold is set by user input. In further embodiments the alarm threshold is calculated using historical data from the at least one sensor. In some embodiments the emergency management service delivers the alert to an emergency dispatch center. In further embodiments the emergency management service selects an emergency dispatch center to receive the alert from a plurality of emergency dispatch centers based on emergency response ability. In even further embodiments the emergency response ability is based on criteria selected from the group consisting of proximity to the location of the emergency resource availability staff availability and calculated time to arrival of an emergency response. In further embodiments the alert comprises a multimedia message. In further embodiments the emergency management system converts the multimedia message to a format compatible with an emergency dispatch center before delivering the message. In even further embodiments the format compatible with an emergency dispatch center is an analog format. In still further embodiments the analog format is audio wherein the message is converted into an audio message comprising the emergency indication and sensor readings. In some embodiments the wearable device is adapted to be wearable by a human. In some embodiments the wearable device is adapted to be wearable by a bird or animal. In some embodiments the wearable device adapted to be wearable by a pet. In some embodiments the wearable device is adapted to be wearable on the hand finger palm wrist elbow arm shoulder neck head face nose ear torso chest back waist hips leg knee ankle or foot. In some embodiments an alert can be cancelled after being delivered to an emergency management system. In further embodiments an alert is cancelled by a user of the wearable device. In further embodiments an alert is cancelled by a user of the wearable device upon authentication. In further embodiments an alert is cancelled by the emergency management system. In further embodiments an alert is cancelled automatically by the wearable device wherein the device predicts that the alert was sent accidentally. In even further embodiments the device predicts the alert was sent accidentally based on factors selected from the group consisting of sensor data contradicting an emergency indication from the user interface sensor malfunction conflicting data from a plurality of sensors. In some embodiments an alert is cancelled when no communication device or routing device capable of delivering the alert to a communication device is available. In some embodiments the communication module manages the indirect communication link with the emergency management service upon transmission of an alert by responding to requests for updated data. In some embodiments the communication module sends updated data to the emergency management system automatically without a data request from the emergency management system. In some embodiments the communication module sends updated data to the emergency management service upon user input. In some embodiments the updated data comprises sensor readings from the at least one sensor. In further embodiments the sensor readings comprise live sensor readings. In further embodiments the sensor readings comprise historical sensor readings.

In one aspect described herein is a wearable device for requesting emergency assistance comprising at least one processor a memory a user interface at least one sensor and a network element and a computer program including instructions executable by the at least one processor to create an emergency alert application comprising a sensor module receiving data from the at least one sensor an interface module receiving at least one emergency indication from the user interface and a communication module establishing an indirect communication link with an emergency management system the communication link sending an alert to a communication device distinct from the wearable device for delivery to the emergency management system wherein the alert comprises the at least one emergency indication data from the at least one sensor and location information from the wearable device or the communication device receiving at least one data request from the communication device wherein the data request originates from the emergency management system and responding to the at least one data request by sending updated data from the at least one sensor to the communication device for delivery to the emergency management system to provide situational awareness during an emergency response. In some embodiments the communication device is selected from the group consisting of mobile phone computer router server game console Bluetooth device infrared device and modem. In further embodiments the communication device is a mobile phone. In some embodiments the communication device requires authentication for the wearable device to establish a communication link. In further embodiments the wearable device enables a user to provide authentication to the communication device to establish a communication link. In some embodiments the communication module selects a communication device from a list of communication devices for receiving the alert. In further embodiments the communication module selects a communication device based on proximity to the emergency management system. In even further embodiments proximity is calculated from the latency of communications between the communication device and the emergency management system. In further embodiments the list of communication devices comprises devices suitable for communicating with the wearable device. In further embodiments the communication module selects a communication device suitable for directly communicating with wearable device based on communication link quality wherein the each communication device is scored according to one or more factors relevant to communication link quality between each communication device and the wearable device. In further embodiments the one or more factors are selected from the group consisting of signal strength channel latency error rate availability of wireless or wired channels for communication between the wearable device and the communication device and transmission delay between the wearable device and the communication device. In some embodiments the indirect communication link further comprises sending an alert to a routing device for delivery to a communication device when no communication device suitable for directly communicating with the wearable device is available. In further embodiments the communication module selects a routing device from a list of routing devices for receiving the alert. In even further embodiments the communication module selects a routing device based on proximity to the emergency management system. In still further embodiments proximity is calculated from the latency of communications between the routing device and the emergency management system. In further embodiments the list of routing devices comprises devices suitable for communicating with the wearable device. In further embodiments the communication module selects a routing device suitable for directly communicating with the wearable device based on communication link quality wherein the each routing device is scored according to one or more factors relevant to communication link quality between each routing device and the emergency alert device. In further embodiments the one or more factors are selected from the group consisting of signal strength channel latency error rate availability of wireless or wired channels for communication between the wearable device and the routing device and transmission delay between the wearable device and the routing device. In some embodiments a user uses a communication device to send an alert comprising data from the at least one sensor. In some embodiments the alert comprises at least one multimedia message. In further embodiments the at least one multimedia message comprises a plurality of data types. In even embodiments the plurality of data types is one or more of text sound image video meta data user inputted data locational information or a combination thereof. In still further embodiments the wearable device provides at least one of the plurality of data types in the multimedia message. In some embodiments the alert delivered to the emergency management system comprises information about the communication device wherein the information is selected from the group consisting of location identity of a user of the communication device and relationship between a user of the communication device and a user of the wearable device. In some embodiments the user interface provides a plurality of emergency indications for the user to select from wherein each said indication connotes a different type of emergency situation. In further embodiments the type of emergency situation is selected from the group consisting of medical police fire and vehicle accident. In even further embodiments the type of emergency situation is selected from the group consisting of natural disaster earthquake fire flood tornado hurricane sink hole tsunami thunderstorm hail storm whirlpool cardiac arrest stroke seizure anaphylactic shock cut abrasion contusion stab wound bug bite snake bite animal attack robbery armed robbery home invasion battery terrorist attack chemical spill explosion gas leak and drowning. In some embodiments the user interface comprises a panic option wherein an alert is transmitted immediately through all available channels and communication links upon selection of the panic option. In some embodiments at least one sensor detects at least one physiological parameter of a user. In further embodiments the at least one sensor detects at least two three four five six seven eight nine or ten physiological parameters of a user. In further embodiments the at least one physiological parameter is selected from the group consisting of pulse rate blood pressure skin temperature ear temperature sweat characteristics salt levels in sweat pupil dilation respiration rate blood oxygen level blood alcohol level and blood glucose level of the user. In some embodiments the sensor is configured to detect at least one environmental parameter. In further embodiments the environmental parameter is selected from the group consisting of light motion temperature pressure humidity vibration magnetic field sound smoke carbon monoxide radiation hazardous chemicals acid base reactive compounds volatile organic compounds and smog. In some embodiments the device further comprises a sensor database storing data collected by the at least one sensor. In further embodiments each sensor in the database is assigned a universal calling number. In even further embodiments wearable device can receive a data call to the universal calling number of the sensor. In further embodiments the data comprises real time data obtained from the at least one sensor. In further embodiments the data comprises historical sensor data obtained from the at least one sensor. In further embodiments the data comprises real time and historical data obtained from the at least one sensor. In some embodiments the at least one sensor is selected from the group of sensors consisting of an optical electrical magnetic electromagnetic chemical electrochemical UV light pressure velocity sound thermal and mechanical sensor. In some embodiments the at least one sensor is selected from the group consisting of a heart rate monitor thermometer a respirometer a blood glucose monitor an electrolyte sensor an electrical conductance meter a blood pressure sensor a blood oxygen sensor an EMG sensor an EEG sensor an ECG sensor a body hydration sensor a carbon dioxide sensor a carbon monoxide sensor a smoke detector a blood alcohol sensor and a Geiger counter. In some embodiments the wearable device sends an alert autonomously without user input when data from the at least one sensor indicates an emergency situation. In further embodiments the sensor readings indicate an emergency situation when a sensor reading falls outside of an alarm threshold said threshold defined by a range of values. In even further embodiments the sensor readings indicate an emergency situation when a moving average of the sensor readings falls outside of an alarm threshold said threshold defined by a range of values. In even further embodiments the sensor readings indicate an emergency situation when a sensor reading falls outside of an alarm threshold for a minimum period of time. In still further embodiments the minimum period of time is at least 1 second at least 2 seconds at least 3 seconds at least 4 seconds at least 5 seconds at least 6 seconds at least 7 seconds at least 8 seconds at least 9 seconds at least 10 seconds at least 11 seconds at least 12 seconds at least 13 seconds at least 14 seconds at least 15 seconds at least 30 seconds at least 45 seconds at least 60 seconds at least 2 minutes at least 3 minutes at least 4 minutes at least 5 minutes at least 10 minutes at least 20 minutes at least 30 minutes at least 40 minutes at least 50 minutes or at least 60 minutes. In even further embodiments the alarm threshold is set by user input. In further embodiments the alarm threshold is calculated using historical data from the at least one sensor. In some embodiments the wearable device is adapted to be wearable by a human. In some embodiments the wearable device is adapted to be wearable by a bird or animal. In some embodiments the wearable device adapted to be wearable by a pet. In some embodiments the wearable device is adapted to be wearable on the hand finger palm wrist elbow arm shoulder neck head face nose ear torso chest back waist hips leg knee ankle or foot. In some embodiments an alert can be cancelled after being delivered to an emergency management system. In further embodiments an alert is cancelled by a user of the wearable device. In further embodiments an alert is cancelled by a user of the wearable device upon authentication. In further embodiments an alert is cancelled automatically by the wearable device wherein the device predicts that the alert was sent accidentally. In even further embodiments the device predicts the alert was sent accidentally based on factors selected from the group consisting of sensor data contradicting an emergency indication from the user interface sensor malfunction conflicting data from a plurality of sensors. In some embodiments an alert is cancelled when no communication device or routing device capable of delivering the alert to a communication device is available. In some embodiments the communication module manages the indirect communication link with the emergency management service upon transmission of an alert by responding to requests for updated data. In some embodiments the communication module sends updated data to the emergency management system automatically without a data request from the emergency management system. In some embodiments the communication module sends updated data to the emergency management service upon user input. In some embodiments the updated data comprises sensor readings from the at least one sensor. In further embodiments the sensor readings comprise live sensor readings. In further embodiments the sensor readings comprise historical sensor readings. In some embodiments the updated data comprise location information. In further embodiments the location information comprises a current location of the wearable device. In even further embodiments the location information comprises a current location of the communication device. In further embodiments the location information comprises one or more historical locations of the wearable device. In further embodiments the location information comprises one or more historical locations of the communication device. In some embodiments the device further comprises at least one external sensor wherein the at least one external sensor is distinct from the wearable device. In further embodiments the at least one external sensor is in the vicinity of the wearable device. In further embodiments the at least one external sensor is assigned a universal calling number wherein an emergency management system or a communication device can request data from the at least one external sensor by calling the universal calling number. In further embodiments the at least one external sensor comprises a plurality of sensors. In even further embodiments the plurality of sensors form a network of sensors. In still further embodiments the network is a wireless network. In still further embodiments the network is an ad hoc wireless mesh network. In still further embodiments the wearable device is in communication with the network of external sensors. In still further embodiments the communication device is in communication with the network of external sensors. In still further embodiments the emergency management system is in communication with the network of external sensors. In still further embodiments the sensor network is selected from the group consisting of Internet of Things network wireless sensor network wired sensor network a combination wired and wireless sensor network and wireless sensor and actuator network. In further embodiments the wearable device maintains a list of external sensors for communication. In even further embodiments the list of external sensors belong to at least one network of external sensors. In further embodiments the sensor module generates a list of external sensors within communication range. In even further embodiments the sensor module periodically updates the list of external sensors within communication range. In further embodiments the wearable device receives alerts or broadcasts from external sensors within communication range. In even further embodiments the wearable device receives data from the at least one external sensor upon request. In still further embodiments the wearable device requests data from the at least one external sensor after receiving an emergency indication to obtain situational awareness. In still further embodiments the data received from the at least one external sensor comprises sensor readings. In still further embodiments the data received from the at least one external sensor comprises location information. In further embodiments the emergency management system maintains a database of external sensors with location information associated with the external sensors. In further embodiments the sensor module begins requesting data from external sensors when a sensor reading of the wearable device indicates an emergency situation. In further embodiments the at least one external sensor broadcasts an alert requesting emergency assistance upon receiving a request an alert requesting emergency assistance from another sensor. In even further embodiments the at least one external sensor updates the broadcasted alert with updated data from the at least one external sensor. In even further embodiments the at least one external sensor updates the broadcasted alert with updated data from the sensor sending the request. In further embodiments the at least one external sensor sends data to the emergency management system upon request. In further embodiments the at least one external sensor sends updated data to the emergency management system upon request. In some embodiments the wearable device uses angles of arrival of signals from other devices received by the wearable device to calculate relative positioning of the wearable device with respect to the other devices in the vicinity. In some embodiments the wearable device autonomously sends a warning to a user before sending an alert when sensor readings indicate an emergency situation wherein the user decides whether to send the alert. In some embodiments the emergency management system is an emergency dispatch center. In one aspect a method for sending an emergency alert from a sensor is disclosed. In some embodiments the method includes sensing a parameter by the sensor where the parameter is a health indicator of the user or one or more environmental characteristics. In further embodiments the method includes comparing the parameter to one or more predefined ranges. In further embodiments an emergency alert may be triggered when the parameter is outside of the predefined alarm range or a warning signal may be triggered when the parameter is outside the predefined warning range. In some embodiments the method includes scanning the airways around the sensor to locate one or more communicating devices and selecting a communication device among them. In some embodiments the communication device may be selected based on factors such as a received signal strength indicator RSSI of the communication device at the sensor received signal strength of transmissions from the communication device at the sensor availability of wireless or wired channels for communication between the sensor and the communication device transmission delay on the communication link between the sensor and the communication device and other factors indicative of quality of a communication link between the sensor and the communication device.

In another aspect provided herein are methods for sending an alert from a wearable device to an emergency management system by using a communication device to establish an indirect communication link the method comprising receiving by the wearable device data from at least one sensor associated with the wearable device receiving by the wearable device at least one emergency indication initiated by a user interacting with the wearable device sending by the wearable device an alert to the communication device for delivery to the emergency management system wherein the alert comprises the at least one emergency indication data from the at least one sensor and location information from the wearable device or the communication device receiving by the wearable device at least one data request from the communication device wherein the data request originates from the emergency management system and responding by the wearable device to the at least one data request by transmitting updated data from the at least one sensor to the communication device for delivery to the emergency management system to provide situational awareness during an emergency response. In some embodiments the communication device is selected from the group consisting of mobile phone computer router server game console Bluetooth device infrared device and modem. In further embodiments the communication device is a mobile phone. In some embodiments the communication link sends an alert to a communication device for delivery to an emergency management system. In some embodiments the communication device requires authentication for the wearable device to establish a communication link. In some embodiments the wearable device enables a user to provide authentication to the communication device to establish a communication link. In some embodiments the communication module selects a communication device from a list of communication devices for receiving the alert. In further embodiments the communication module selects a communication device based on proximity to the emergency management system. In further embodiments proximity is calculated from the latency of communications between the communication device and the emergency management system. In some embodiments the list of communication devices comprises devices suitable for communicating with the wearable device. In further embodiments the communication module selects a communication device suitable for directly communicating with wearable device based on communication link quality wherein the each communication device is scored according to one or more factors relevant to communication link quality between each communication device and the wearable device. In some embodiments the one or more factors are selected from the group consisting of signal strength channel latency error rate availability of wireless or wired channels for communication between the wearable device and the communication device and transmission delay between the wearable device and the communication device. In some embodiments the indirect communication link further comprises sending an alert to a routing device for delivery to a communication device when no communication device suitable for directly communicating with the wearable device is available. In some embodiments the communication module selects a routing device from a list of routing devices for receiving the alert. In some embodiments the communication module selects a routing device based on proximity to the emergency management system. In some embodiments proximity is calculated from the latency of communications between the routing device and the emergency management system. In some embodiments the list of routing devices comprises devices suitable for communicating with the wearable device. In some embodiments the communication module selects a routing device suitable for directly communicating with the wearable device based on communication link quality wherein the each routing device is scored according to one or more factors relevant to communication link quality between each routing device and the emergency alert device. In some embodiments the one or more factors are selected from the group consisting of signal strength channel latency error rate availability of wireless or wired channels for communication between the wearable device and the routing device and transmission delay between the wearable device and the routing device. In some embodiments a user uses a communication device to send an alert comprising data from the at least one sensor. In some embodiments the alert comprises at least one multimedia message. In some embodiments the at least one multimedia message comprises a plurality of data types. In further embodiments the plurality of data types is one or more of text sound image video meta data user inputted data locational information or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the alert delivered to the emergency management system comprises information about the communication device wherein the information is selected from the group consisting of location identity of a user of the communication device and relationship between a user of the communication device and a user of the wearable device. In some embodiments the user interface provides a plurality of emergency indications for the user to select from wherein each said indication connotes a different type of emergency situation. In some embodiments the type of emergency situation is selected from the group consisting of medical police fire and vehicle accident. In further embodiments the type of emergency situation is selected from the group consisting of natural disaster earthquake fire flood tornado hurricane sink hole tsunami thunderstorm hail storm whirlpool cardiac arrest stroke seizure anaphylactic shock cut abrasion contusion stab wound bug bite snake bite animal attack robbery armed robbery home invasion battery terrorist attack chemical spill explosion gas leak and drowning. In some embodiments the user interface comprises a panic option wherein an alert is transmitted immediately through all available channels and communication links upon selection of the panic option. In some embodiments the at least one sensor detects at least one physiological parameter of a user. In further embodiments the at least one sensor detects at least two three four five six seven eight nine or ten physiological parameters of a user. In further embodiments the at least one physiological parameter is selected from the group consisting of pulse rate blood pressure skin temperature ear temperature sweat characteristics salt levels in sweat pupil dilation respiration rate blood oxygen level blood alcohol level and blood glucose level of the user. In some embodiments the sensor is configured to detect at least one environmental parameter. In further embodiments the environmental parameter is selected from the group consisting of light motion temperature pressure humidity vibration magnetic field sound smoke carbon monoxide radiation hazardous chemicals acid base reactive compounds volatile organic compounds and smog. In some embodiments comprising a sensor database storing data collected by the at least one sensor. In further embodiments each sensor in the database is assigned a universal calling number. In further embodiments a communication device or an emergency management system can place a data call to the universal calling number of the sensor to request data. In some embodiments the data comprises real time data obtained from the at least one sensor. In some embodiments the data comprises historical sensor data obtained from the at least one sensor. In some embodiments the data comprises real time and historical data obtained from the at least one sensor. In some embodiments the at least one sensor is selected from the group of sensors consisting of an optical electrical magnetic electromagnetic chemical electrochemical UV light pressure velocity sound thermal and mechanical sensor. In some embodiments the at least one sensor is selected from the group consisting of a heart rate monitor thermometer a respirometer a blood glucose monitor an electrolyte sensor an electrical conductance meter a blood pressure sensor a blood oxygen sensor an EMG sensor an EEG sensor an ECG sensor a body hydration sensor a carbon dioxide sensor a carbon monoxide sensor a smoke detector a blood alcohol sensor and a Geiger counter. In some embodiments the wearable device sends an alert autonomously without user input when data from the at least one sensor indicates an emergency situation. In further embodiments the sensor readings indicate an emergency situation when a sensor reading falls outside of an alarm threshold said threshold defined by a range of values. In some embodiments the sensor readings indicate an emergency situation when a moving average of the sensor readings falls outside of an alarm threshold said threshold defined by a range of values. In some embodiments the sensor readings indicate an emergency situation when a sensor reading falls outside of an alarm threshold for a minimum period of time. In some embodiments the minimum period of time is at least 1 second at least 2 seconds at least 3 seconds at least 4 seconds at least 5 seconds at least 6 seconds at least 7 seconds at least 8 seconds at least 9 seconds at least 10 seconds at least 11 seconds at least 12 seconds at least 13 seconds at least 14 seconds at least 15 seconds at least 30 seconds at least 45 seconds at least 60 seconds at least 2 minutes at least 3 minutes at least 4 minutes at least 5 minutes at least 10 minutes at least 20 minutes at least 30 minutes at least 40 minutes at least 50 minutes or at least 60 minutes. In some embodiments the sensor readings indicate an emergency situation when a moving average of the sensor readings falls outside of an alarm threshold for a minimum period of time. In some embodiments the minimum period of time is at least 1 second at least 2 seconds at least 3 seconds at least 4 seconds at least 5 seconds at least 6 seconds at least 7 seconds at least 8 seconds at least 9 seconds at least 10 seconds at least 11 seconds at least 12 seconds at least 13 seconds at least 14 seconds at least 15 seconds at least 30 seconds at least 45 seconds at least 60 seconds at least 2 minutes at least 3 minutes at least 4 minutes at least 5 minutes at least 10 minutes at least 20 minutes at least 30 minutes at least 40 minutes at least 50 minutes or at least 60 minutes. In some embodiments the alarm threshold is set by user input. In some embodiments the alarm threshold is set by user input. In some embodiments the alarm threshold is calculated using historical data from the at least one sensor. In some embodiments the alarm threshold is calculated using historical data from the at least one sensor. In some embodiments the wearable device is adapted to be wearable by a human. In some embodiments the wearable device is adapted to be wearable by a bird or animal. In some embodiments the wearable device adapted to be wearable by a pet. In some embodiments the wearable device is adapted to be wearable on the hand finger palm wrist elbow arm shoulder neck head face nose ear torso chest back waist hips leg knee ankle or foot. In some embodiments an alert is cancelled automatically by the wearable device wherein the device predicts that the alert was sent accidentally. In some embodiments the device predicts the alert was sent accidentally based on factors selected from the group consisting of sensor data contradicting an emergency indication from the user interface sensor malfunction conflicting data from a plurality of sensors. The method of claim wherein an alert is cancelled when no communication device or routing device capable of delivering the alert to a communication device is available. In some embodiments the communication module manages the indirect communication link with the emergency management service upon transmission of an alert by responding to requests for updated data. In some embodiments the communication module sends updated data to the emergency management system automatically without a data request from the emergency management system. In some embodiments the communication module sends updated data to the emergency management service upon user input. In some embodiments the updated data comprises sensor readings from the at least one sensor. In further embodiments the sensor readings comprise live sensor readings. In further embodiments the sensor readings comprise historical sensor readings. In some embodiments the updated data comprise location information. In some embodiments the location information comprises a current location of the wearable device. In some embodiments the location information comprises a current location of the communication device. In some embodiments the location information comprises one or more historical locations of the wearable device. In some embodiments the location information comprises one or more historical locations of the communication device. In some embodiments comprising at least one external sensor wherein the at least one external sensor is distinct from the wearable device. In some embodiments the at least one external sensor is in the vicinity of the wearable device. In some embodiments the at least one external sensor is assigned a universal calling number wherein an emergency management system or a communication device can request data from the at least one external sensor by calling the universal calling number. In some embodiments the at least one external sensor comprises a plurality of sensors. In further embodiments the plurality of sensors form a network of sensors. In some embodiments the network is a wireless network. In some embodiments the network is an ad hoc wireless mesh network. In some embodiments the wearable device is in communication with the network of external sensors. In some embodiments the communication device is in communication with the network of external sensors. In some embodiments the emergency management system is in communication with the network of external sensors. In some embodiments the sensor network is selected from the group consisting of Internet of Things network wireless sensor network wired sensor network a combination wired and wireless sensor network and wireless sensor and actuator network. In some embodiments the wearable device maintains a list of external sensors for communication. In some embodiments the list of external sensors belong to at least one network of external sensors. In some embodiments the sensor module generates a list of external sensors within communication range. In further embodiments the sensor module periodically updates the list of external sensors within communication range. In some embodiments the wearable device receives alerts or broadcasts from external sensors within communication range. In further embodiments the wearable device receives data from the at least one external sensor upon request. In some embodiments the wearable device requests data from the at least one external sensor after receiving an emergency indication to obtain situational awareness. In some embodiments the data received from the at least one external sensor comprises sensor readings. In some embodiments the data received from the at least one external sensor comprises location information. In some embodiments the sensor module begins requesting data from external sensors when a sensor reading of the wearable device indicates an emergency situation. In some embodiments the at least one external sensor broadcasts an alert requesting emergency assistance upon receiving a request an alert requesting emergency assistance from another sensor. In some embodiments the at least one external sensor updates the broadcasted alert with updated data from the at least one external sensor. In some embodiments the at least one external sensor updates the broadcasted alert with updated data from the sensor sending the request. In some embodiments the at least one external sensor sends data to the emergency management system upon request. In some embodiments the at least one external sensor sends updated data to the emergency management system upon request. In some embodiments the wearable device uses angles of arrival of signals from other devices received by the wearable device to calculate relative positioning of the wearable device with respect to the other devices in the vicinity. In some embodiments the wearable device autonomously sends a warning to a user before sending an alert when sensor readings indicate an emergency situation wherein the user decides whether to send the alert. In some embodiments the emergency management system is an emergency dispatch center. In some embodiments when the communication device is unavailable the method includes selecting a routing device based on factors such as a received signal strength of the routing device at the sensor availability of wireless or wired channels for communication between the sensor and the routing device ability to authenticate with the routing device transmission delay on the communication link between the sensor and the routing device and other factors indicative of quality of a communication link between the sensor and the routing device. In further embodiments the method includes establishing a communication link to at least one of the communication device or the routing device wherein the routing device establishes an indirect communication link with a communication device. In some embodiments the method includes sending one or more of the emergency alert and warning signal via the connected device to an emergency dispatch center EDC .

In one aspect described herein are methods for an emergency management system to obtain updated sensor data from a wearable device upon receiving an alert by using a communication device to establish an indirect communication link the method comprising receiving by the emergency management system an alert from a communication device wherein said alert originates from a wearable device wherein said alert comprises at least one emergency indication data from at least one sensor associated with the wearable device and location information from the wearable device or the communication device sending by the emergency management system at least one data request to the communication device for delivery to the wearable device and receiving by the emergency management system updated data from the communication device wherein the updated data originates from the at least one sensor associated with the wearable device. In some embodiments the communication device comprises an indirect communication link module receiving an alert from the wearable device and delivering the alert to the emergency management system wherein the alert is transmitted as a digital signal. In further embodiments the communication device is selected from the group consisting of mobile phone computer router server game console Bluetooth device infrared device and modem. In further embodiments the communication device is a mobile phone. In some embodiments the alert comprises at least one multimedia message. In some embodiments the at least one multimedia message comprises a plurality of data types. In some embodiments the plurality of data types is one or more of text sound image video meta data user inputted data locational information or a combination thereof. In further embodiments the wearable device provides at least one of the plurality of data types in the multimedia message. In some embodiments the communication device provides at least one of the plurality of data types in the multimedia message. In some embodiments the alert delivered to the emergency management system comprises information about the communication device wherein the information is selected from the group consisting of location identity of a user of the communication device and relationship between a user of the communication device and a user of the wearable device. In some embodiments the emergency management system converts the multimedia message into a compatible format before delivering the multimedia message to an emergency dispatch center. In some embodiments the emergency management service delivers the alert to an emergency dispatch center. In some embodiments the emergency management service selects an emergency dispatch center to receive the alert from a plurality of emergency dispatch centers based on emergency response ability. In some embodiments the emergency response ability is based on criteria selected from the group consisting of proximity to the location of the emergency resource availability staff availability and calculated time to arrival of an emergency response. In some embodiments the alert comprises a multimedia message. In some embodiments the emergency management system converts the multimedia message to a format compatible with an emergency dispatch center before delivering the message. In some embodiments the format compatible with an emergency dispatch center is an analog format. In some embodiments the analog format is audio wherein the message is converted into an audio message comprising the emergency indication and sensor readings. In some embodiments an alert can be cancelled after being delivered to an emergency management system. In some embodiments an alert is cancelled by the emergency management system. In some embodiments emergency management system receives updated data from the wearable device upon user input. In some embodiments the updated data comprises sensor readings from the at least one sensor. In some embodiments the sensor readings comprise live sensor readings. In some embodiments the sensor readings comprise historical sensor readings. In some embodiments the updated data comprise location information. In some embodiments the location information comprises a current location of the wearable device. In some embodiments the location information comprises a current location of the communication device. In some embodiments the location information comprises one or more historical locations of the wearable device. In some embodiments the location information comprises one or more historical locations of the communication device. In some embodiments at least one external sensor is assigned a universal calling number wherein an emergency management system or a communication device can request data from the at least one external sensor by calling the universal calling number. In another aspect a system for sending an emergency alert is disclosed. In some embodiments the system includes a sensor a communication device and an emergency management system EMS . In further embodiments the sensor may have a sensor module and a communication module. In further embodiments the sensor module may sense one or more parameters and the communication module may be able to establish a communication link. In further embodiments the communication device may be able to participate in the communication link with the sensor and the communication device is available for sending an emergency alert. In some embodiments the EMS receives the emergency alert from the communication device for processing and forwarding the emergency alert to an emergency dispatch center EDC .

In another aspect described herein are non transitory computer readable storage media encoded with a computer program including instructions executable by at least one processor to create an emergency alert application comprising a sensor module receiving data from at least one sensor associated with a wearable device worn by a user an interface module receiving at least one emergency indication initiated by the user interacting with a user interface of the wearable device and a communication module establishing an indirect communication link with an emergency management system the communication link sending an alert to a communication device distinct from the wearable device for delivery to the emergency management system wherein the alert comprises the at least one emergency indication data from the at least one sensor and location information from the wearable device or the communication device receiving at least one data request from the communication device wherein the data request originates from the emergency management system and responding to the at least one data request by transmitting updated data from the at least one sensor to the communication device for delivery to the emergency management system to provide situational awareness during an emergency response. In further embodiments the communication device comprises an indirect communication link module receiving an alert from the wearable device and delivering the alert to the emergency management system wherein the alert is transmitted as a digital signal. In further embodiments the communication device is selected from the group consisting of mobile phone computer router server game console Bluetooth device infrared device and modem. In further embodiments the communication device is a mobile phone. In some embodiments the communication link sends an alert to a communication device for delivery to an emergency management system. In some embodiments the communication device requires authentication for the wearable device to establish a communication link. In some embodiments the wearable device enables a user to provide authentication to the communication device to establish a communication link. In some embodiments the communication module selects a communication device from a list of communication devices for receiving the alert. In further embodiments the communication module selects a communication device based on proximity to the emergency management system. In further embodiments proximity is calculated from the latency of communications between the communication device and the emergency management system. In some embodiments the list of communication devices comprises devices suitable for communicating with the wearable device. In some embodiments the communication module selects a communication device suitable for directly communicating with wearable device based on communication link quality wherein the each communication device is scored according to one or more factors relevant to communication link quality between each communication device and the wearable device. In further embodiments the one or more factors are selected from the group consisting of signal strength channel latency error rate availability of wireless or wired channels for communication between the wearable device and the communication device and transmission delay between the wearable device and the communication device. In some embodiments the indirect communication link further comprises sending an alert to a routing device for delivery to a communication device when no communication device suitable for directly communicating with the wearable device is available. In some embodiments the communication module selects a routing device from a list of routing devices for receiving the alert. In some embodiments the communication module selects a routing device based on proximity to the emergency management system. In further embodiments proximity is calculated from the latency of communications between the routing device and the emergency management system. In some embodiments the list of routing devices comprises devices suitable for communicating with the wearable device. In some embodiments the communication module selects a routing device suitable for directly communicating with the wearable device based on communication link quality wherein the each routing device is scored according to one or more factors relevant to communication link quality between each routing device and the emergency alert device. In further embodiments the one or more factors are selected from the group consisting of signal strength channel latency error rate availability of wireless or wired channels for communication between the wearable device and the routing device and transmission delay between the wearable device and the routing device. In some embodiments a user uses a communication device to send an alert comprising data from the at least one sensor. In some embodiments the alert comprises at least one multimedia message. In further embodiments the at least one multimedia message comprises a plurality of data types. In further embodiments the plurality of data types is one or more of text sound image video meta data user inputted data locational information or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the wearable device provides at least one of the plurality of data types in the multimedia message. In some embodiments the communication device provides at least one of the plurality of data types in the multimedia message. In some embodiments the alert delivered to the emergency management system comprises information about the communication device wherein the information is selected from the group consisting of location identity of a user of the communication device and relationship between a user of the communication device and a user of the wearable device. In further embodiments the emergency management system converts the multimedia message into a compatible format before delivering the multimedia message to an emergency dispatch center. In some embodiments the user interface provides a plurality of emergency indications for the user to select from wherein each said indication connotes a different type of emergency situation. In some embodiments the type of emergency situation is selected from the group consisting of medical police fire and vehicle accident. In some embodiments the type of emergency situation is selected from the group consisting of natural disaster earthquake fire flood tornado hurricane sink hole tsunami thunderstorm hail storm whirlpool cardiac arrest stroke seizure anaphylactic shock cut abrasion contusion stab wound bug bite snake bite animal attack robbery armed robbery home invasion battery terrorist attack chemical spill explosion gas leak and drowning. In some embodiments the user interface comprises a panic option wherein an alert is transmitted immediately through all available channels and communication links upon selection of the panic option. In some embodiments at least one sensor detects at least one physiological parameter of a user. In further embodiments the at least one sensor detects at least two three four five six seven eight nine or ten physiological parameters of a user. In some embodiments the at least one physiological parameter is selected from the group consisting of pulse rate blood pressure skin temperature ear temperature sweat characteristics salt levels in sweat pupil dilation respiration rate blood oxygen level blood alcohol level and blood glucose level of the user. In some embodiments the sensor is configured to detect at least one environmental parameter. In further embodiments the environmental parameter is selected from the group consisting of light motion temperature pressure humidity vibration magnetic field sound smoke carbon monoxide radiation hazardous chemicals acid base reactive compounds volatile organic compounds and smog. In some embodiments the application further comprises a sensor database storing data collected by the at least one sensor. In some embodiments each sensor in the database is assigned a universal calling number. In some embodiments a communication device or an emergency management system can place a data call to the universal calling number of the sensor to request data. In some embodiments the data comprises real time data obtained from the at least one sensor. In some embodiments the data comprises historical sensor data obtained from the at least one sensor. In some embodiments the data comprises real time and historical data obtained from the at least one sensor. In some embodiments the at least one sensor is selected from the group of sensors consisting of an optical electrical magnetic electromagnetic chemical electrochemical UV light pressure velocity sound thermal and mechanical sensor. In some embodiments the at least one sensor is selected from the group consisting of a heart rate monitor thermometer a respirometer a blood glucose monitor an electrolyte sensor an electrical conductance meter a blood pressure sensor a blood oxygen sensor an EMG sensor an EEG sensor an ECG sensor a body hydration sensor a carbon dioxide sensor a carbon monoxide sensor a smoke detector a blood alcohol sensor and a Geiger counter. In some embodiments the wearable device sends an alert autonomously without user input when data from the at least one sensor indicates an emergency situation. In some embodiments the sensor readings indicate an emergency situation when a sensor reading falls outside of an alarm threshold said threshold defined by a range of values. In further embodiments the sensor readings indicate an emergency situation when a moving average of the sensor readings falls outside of an alarm threshold said threshold defined by a range of values. In some embodiments the sensor readings indicate an emergency situation when a sensor reading falls outside of an alarm threshold for a minimum period of time. In further embodiments the minimum period of time is at least 1 second at least 2 seconds at least 3 seconds at least 4 seconds at least 5 seconds at least 6 seconds at least 7 seconds at least 8 seconds at least 9 seconds at least 10 seconds at least 11 seconds at least 12 seconds at least 13 seconds at least 14 seconds at least 15 seconds at least 30 seconds at least 45 seconds at least 60 seconds at least 2 minutes at least 3 minutes at least 4 minutes at least 5 minutes at least 10 minutes at least 20 minutes at least 30 minutes at least 40 minutes at least 50 minutes or at least 60 minutes. In some embodiments the sensor readings indicate an emergency situation when a moving average of the sensor readings falls outside of an alarm threshold for a minimum period of time. In further embodiments the minimum period of time is at least 1 second at least 2 seconds at least 3 seconds at least 4 seconds at least 5 seconds at least 6 seconds at least 7 seconds at least 8 seconds at least 9 seconds at least 10 seconds at least 11 seconds at least 12 seconds at least 13 seconds at least 14 seconds at least 15 seconds at least 30 seconds at least 45 seconds at least 60 seconds at least 2 minutes at least 3 minutes at least 4 minutes at least 5 minutes at least 10 minutes at least 20 minutes at least 30 minutes at least 40 minutes at least 50 minutes or at least 60 minutes. In some embodiments the alarm threshold is set by user input. In some embodiments the alarm threshold is set by user input. In some embodiments the alarm threshold is calculated using historical data from the at least one sensor. In some embodiments the alarm threshold is calculated using historical data from the at least one sensor. In some embodiments the emergency management service delivers the alert to an emergency dispatch center. In further embodiments the emergency management service selects an emergency dispatch center to receive the alert from a plurality of emergency dispatch centers based on emergency response ability. In some embodiments the emergency response ability is based on criteria selected from the group consisting of proximity to the location of the emergency resource availability staff availability and calculated time to arrival of an emergency response. In some embodiments the alert comprises a multimedia message. In some embodiments the emergency management system converts the multimedia message to a format compatible with an emergency dispatch center before delivering the message. In some embodiments the format compatible with an emergency dispatch center is an analog format. In some embodiments the analog format is audio wherein the message is converted into an audio message comprising the emergency indication and sensor readings. In some embodiments the wearable device is adapted to be wearable by a human. In some embodiments the wearable device is adapted to be wearable by a bird or animal. In some embodiments the wearable device adapted to be wearable by a pet. In some embodiments the wearable device is adapted to be wearable on the hand finger palm wrist elbow arm shoulder neck head face nose ear torso chest back waist hips leg knee ankle or foot. In some embodiments an alert can be cancelled after being delivered to an emergency management system. In some embodiments an alert is cancelled by a user of the wearable device. In some embodiments an alert is cancelled by a user of the wearable device upon authentication. In some embodiments an alert is cancelled by the emergency management system. In some embodiments an alert is cancelled automatically by the wearable device wherein the device predicts that the alert was sent accidentally. In some embodiments the device predicts the alert was sent accidentally based on factors selected from the group consisting of sensor data contradicting an emergency indication from the user interface sensor malfunction conflicting data from a plurality of sensors. In some embodiments an alert is cancelled when no communication device or routing device capable of delivering the alert to a communication device is available. In some embodiments the communication module manages the indirect communication link with the emergency management service upon transmission of an alert by responding to requests for updated data. In some embodiments the communication module sends updated data to the emergency management system automatically without a data request from the emergency management system. In some embodiments the communication module sends updated data to the emergency management service upon user input. In some embodiments the updated data comprises sensor readings from the at least one sensor. In further embodiments the sensor readings comprise live sensor readings. In further embodiments the sensor readings comprise historical sensor readings. In some embodiments the updated data comprise location information. In further embodiments the location information comprises a current location of the wearable device. In some embodiments the location information comprises a current location of the communication device. In some embodiments the location information comprises one or more historical locations of the wearable device. In some embodiments the location information comprises one or more historical locations of the communication device. In some embodiments the communication module maintains a list of external sensors for communication. In some embodiments the list of external sensors belong to at least one network of external sensors. In some embodiments the sensor module generates a list of external sensors within communication range. In some embodiments the sensor module periodically updates the list of external sensors within communication range. In some embodiments the communication module receives alerts or broadcasts from external sensors within communication range. In some embodiments the communication module receives data from the at least one external sensor upon request. In some embodiments the communication module requests data from the at least one external sensor after receiving an emergency indication to obtain situational awareness. In some embodiments the communication module receives data from the at least one external sensor comprises sensor readings. In some embodiments the data received from the at least one external sensor comprises location information. In some embodiments the emergency management system maintains a database of external sensors with location information associated with the external sensors. In some embodiments the sensor module begins requesting data from external sensors when a sensor reading of the wearable device indicates an emergency situation. In some embodiments the at least one external sensor broadcasts an alert requesting emergency assistance upon receiving a request an alert requesting emergency assistance from another sensor. In some embodiments the at least one external sensor updates the broadcasted alert with updated data from the at least one external sensor. In some embodiments the at least one external sensor updates the broadcasted alert with updated data from the sensor sending the request. In some embodiments the at least one external sensor sends data to the emergency management system upon request. In some embodiments the at least one external sensor sends updated data to the emergency management system upon request. In some embodiments the communication module autonomously sends a warning to a user before sending an alert when sensor readings indicate an emergency situation wherein the user decides whether to send the alert. In some embodiments the emergency management system is an emergency dispatch center. In another aspect a multi media emergency alert sent by a sensor is disclosed. The emergency alert includes a request for emergency assistance one or more user information one or more locational information and one or more sensed parameters.

All publications patents and patent applications mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication patent or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

The novel features of the invention are set forth with particularity in the appended claims. A better understanding of the features and advantages of the present invention will be obtained by reference to the following detailed description that sets forth illustrative embodiments in which the principles of the invention are utilized and the accompanying drawings of which 

Aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are not limited to the details of construction and the arrangement of components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. Aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are capable of being practiced or of being carried out in various ways.

Aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are not limited to the details of construction and the arrangement of components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. Aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are capable of being practiced or of being carried out in various ways.

During an emergency communication device s in the vicinity may be in possession of information that pertain to user s of the communication device s the environment that houses the user s of the communication device or the device itself. In an emergency these pieces of information from various devices may be used to build situational awareness of the emergency. As referred to herein situational awareness is the ability to identify process and comprehend the critical elements of information about what is happening and the persons that have been or are likely to be affected by the emergency situation.

For situational awareness regarding an emergency locational information may be of critical importance for example the location of various persons and pets in the area. In addition to GPS mobile or wearable device s may provide information from an accelerometer magnetometer gyroscope etc. about the speed and direction of the user. In addition the devices in the vicinity may have information regarding temperature air pressure carbon monoxide levels oxygen levels smoke air flow air speed precipitation levels air moisture and other environmental characteristics. Information regarding the user or others in the area may also be of critical importance. In particular health information may include heart rate pulse electric signals from the heart blood oxygen levels blood pressure blood sugar level and other health indicators etc. For example an EKG can confirm if a person is having a heart attack.

Unless otherwise defined all technical terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. As used in this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Any reference to or herein is intended to encompass and or unless otherwise stated. Also the phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting.

As referenced herein data from a sensor data from a sensing component data from a sensor element and sensor data all refer to sensed information originating from a sensor. Information or data from a sensor are equivalent to sensed parameter value s .

As referenced herein health indicators or physiological parameters are understood to be various attributes or measurable characteristics of the body that measure the health and well being of a person such as heart rate pulse blood pressure blood sugar or blood glucose level salt levels in sweat heartbeat temperature sweat characteristics eye characteristics breathing etc. For example irregular heartbeats may be a sign of a heart attack.

As referenced herein environmental characteristics characteristics or environmental parameters are understood to be various parameters in the environment that is measured by a sensor that provide situational awareness about the emergency situation. For example environmental characteristics may include the level of parameters such as smoke carbon monoxide radioactivity temperature water chemical etc. that may indicate that there is an emergency situation and or provide situational awareness regarding an emergency. It is contemplated that advances in technology may lead to sensors for measuring various components in bodily fluids or on the skin to evaluate various health indicators. In addition to the health information the device s associated with the user may have critical information about the user s habit communications family and friends pre existing conditions preferences emergency contacts instructions etc.

An emergency response with situational awareness can be more effective and efficient. Currently EDCs receive limited information about the emergency and the emergency medical technicians EMTs with general preparation have to be sent to the scene quickly. It is contemplated that situational awareness about the emergency obtained from the alert will allow emergency response resources to be allocated more efficiently for example when a hurricane or tornado hits a large area. In addition the EMTs may be able to monitor the emergency situation as they are responding to the emergency. For example an EDC may receive an emergency alert because of a fire. The EDC may also receive information about the location and health of the various people and pets in the house via the situational awareness process from various devices. In responding to the emergency the EMTs and firefighters are able bring appropriate equipment and manpower and reduce exploration needed for locating the people and pets.

Existing filings for example U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 856 818 titled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR EMERGENCY CALL MANAGEMENT filed on Sep. 17 2015 and incorporated herein by reference take advantage of Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP technology to make emergency calls including multi media messaging from user communication devices such as cellular phones to EDCs.

Historically users have not been able to make VoIP calls to EDCs using wearable devices. Given the widespread use of wearable technology it will be advantageous for users to be able send an emergency alert for assistance as needed. In addition wearable devices have situational awareness information about the emergency. Therefore it will be advantageous for users to be able to send multimedia messages from their wearable device to an EDC via a communication device such as mobile or cellular phone tablet computer laptop or other communication devices. Disclosed herein are systems and processes by which users can effectively use their wearable device to establish an emergency call with an EDC over data communication links such as IP based channels.

It has been found desirable to have a system and associated method that enables users to utilize wearable technologies to initiate voice and non voice data sessions for the sake of emergency response to an EDC. Such data sessions desirably would include sending and receiving of multi media messages and confirmation of reception of request for emergency help receiving an indication of status of a response provided and conveying meta data relating to the user such as location pre stored health record and health information from a wearable device such as pulse rate heart rate elevation movement pattern amount of daily movement temperature temperature and blood oxygen levels etc. and other relevant information about the user of the wearable device.

As referenced herein wearable devices refers to mobile devices or accessories that can be worn or installed on a user s body. In some embodiments wearable devices may include one or more sensors. A sensor is a device that measures a physical parameter and may record and respond to the measurement e.g. a temperature sensor a heart rate monitor etc. . Wireless sensors disclosed herein include a sensor module and a communication module for sending the sensed and recorded information. As referenced herein a user refers to a person or entity which uses a communicating device or a network service.

As referenced herein an Emergency Management System EMS refers to a system that receives and processes emergency alerts from users and forwards them to the EDC. Various embodiments of the EMS are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 856 818 and incorporated herein by reference. The Emergency Dispatch Center EDC refers to the entity that receives the emergency alert and coordinates the emergency assistance. The EDC may be a public organization run by the municipality county or city or may be a private organization. The emergency assistance may be in various forms including medical caregivers firefighting police military paramilitary border patrol lifeguard security services.

As referenced herein multi media message refers to data messages that include information in two or more different types of data text sound image and video. The multi media message may also include Meta data user inputted data and locational coordinates or GPS data. The multi media message may be unformatted or formatted for ease of transmission and implementation of the emergency response at the EDC. As used herein locational information may include GPS coordinates or cellular triangulation information Wi Fi based locationing an indoor positioning system or any other form of positional information.

Similarly current capabilities of wireless sensor networks e.g. Internet of Things networks do not allow them to send multimedia messages for emergency response. For better emergency response it will be beneficial for sensors to actively search and find other communication devices capable of communicating over longer distances such as cellular phones to initiate a call for emergency response. In addition sensed parameters from the sensor or another sensor in the sensor network can provide helpful situational awareness information for the emergency response. Various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein include methods and systems which fulfill one or more of these needs.

In some embodiments the user will be able to download and install a software or application that will initiate the emergency alert by using the disclosed methods. It is understood that the application may be installed on one or more devices in the disclosed system such as a sensor a wearable device a cell phone a tablet a laptop etc. In other embodiments a sensor or a wearable device may be pre installed with software to enable sending the emergency alert.

The growing ubiquitous presence of sensors coupled with the fact that conventional communications to EDCs for example PSAPs are often made via mobile wireless devices or smart devices e.g. smartphones tablets laptops wearable smart devices etc. that offer a rich type of information for example multimedia information in addition to voice and text rather than land based telephone lines provides an opportunity for collecting the combined information available at all these devices regarding an emergency situation at an EDC and or an EMS thus improving the response to an emergency situation. As a result sensed information from various devices placed in homes and office buildings can be extremely useful if communicated to EDCs in the case of an emergency situation. One way to do this is to communicate information from these sensors to a user communication device for example a mobile wireless device and have the mobile wireless device further communicate the information received from these sensors to the appropriate EDCs. However this method requires two communication hops and also depends on the communication between the sensors and the mobile devices being available. At times this is a restriction and the sensor may be able to send information directly to an EDC or emergency management system EMS without the need for first sending this information to a user communication device for example a mobile device and the EDC and or EMS will be able to directly call the sensor to retrieve real time and stored information from the particular sensor. Therefore there is an opportunity for a system and method for providing a universal calling number for various sensors to improve situational awareness for the purpose of emergency response.

Given the increasing adoption of sensor networks also popularly known as an Internet of Things IOT in office and residential locations to sense and control environmental variables it has been found desirable in accordance with one or more embodiments that the information sensed from these sensor networks on a periodic basis be used in responding to emergency situations in a real time fashion. By providing a rich context that is both sensitive to and situationally aware of the emergency situation being responded to while also offering the ability to query one or more of the many sensors for specific information that may or may not be included in the periodically sensed information from that sensor and also allowing for reception of a call from an EMS and an EDC for purpose of responding to an emergency situation received at the one of many sensors in the sensor network via a data communication network for example the Internet or via a Wi Fi network and actively managing this call aspects and embodiments of the present invention enhances and builds upon the current IOT systems.

Historically a dispatcher at an EDC for example a PSAP or an EMS has not been able to place a call for requesting information sensed at a sensor in a wireless sensor network for example one in an IOT network in the process of responding to an emergency situation. Further when calls for requesting emergency assistance are placed via mobile wireless devices there is currently no method to communicate directly with and extract in real time sensed information from the sensors placed in the environment containing the mobile wireless device for example an office or residential building and utilize such information to better respond to the emergency situation. Thus users have not historically been able to receive benefit from the multitude of real time sensed information around their environment in the case of an emergency and build on this knowledge to minimize the impact of emergency situations or even avoid emergency situations. Accordingly if an EDC for example a PSAP wishes to place a VoIP call over a data communication channel to any of the sensors in a wireless sensor network in the process of responding to an emergency situation it has historically been unable to do so due to the lack of a number to call for communicating with the sensor. Moreover historically the EDC and or the EMS based on where the user communication device is calling from and when the last update providing identification information types capabilities in terms of accessing communication channels for example Bluetooth and Wi Fi and sending critical sensed data over these channels calling number and other information of the installed devices at the particular location of the user communication device received at the EDC and or the EMS the EDC and or the EMS would not have information about the call back number even if one is assigned to one or more of the sensors in an IOT framework and hence would not be able to place a data call for requesting sensed information for the purpose of emergency response.

One advantage of the devices platforms methods and media described herein is that they enable sensors in a wireless network to have a phone number assigned to them so that another communication device for example a communication device at an EDC and or an EMS a smart phone or a mobile wireless device can place a data call to a sensor in the wireless network and request sharing of sensed information for the purposes of emergency response from the sensor in the wireless network and upon receiving this information the EDC for example a PSAP or an EMS can actively share this information with emergency response personnel in an real time fashion to better equip the emergency response personnel to provide an increasingly effective emergency response. It has also been found beneficial to provide a system and method for assigning a calling number from a pool of numbers to sensors in a IOT network placed in a user s environment by an EMS or in some instances an EDC for example a PSAP so that the sensors can use this number to place and receive data calls for example VoIP calls. These calls may be placed from or to an EDC or an EMS in the process of actively responding to a request for emergency assistance from a user communication device of a user in the vicinity of the IOT sensor network that the given sensor is a part of. The sensors in the IOT sensor network may have information that the EMS or EDC can use to more effectively respond to the current emergency situation. Further it has also been found desirable to provide a method to allow a EMS or an EDC to maintain a database of the phone numbers and identifying information of the sensors within its service area including identifying information about the networks specifically the IOT networks that contain these sensors and information about the users that are in the region of influence of these sensors as defined by the sensing region of these sensors for example location information of the users as identified by the number assigned to their communication devices home location IP address or current geographic location of the communication device of the user so that these sensors can be useful in providing additional information in the case that a request for emergency assistance is received from a user in their region of influence.

Various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein include methods and systems which fulfill one or more of these needs or desires.

In accordance with one aspect there is provided a method of assigning a phone number on a permanent basis from a pool of numbers at an EMS or an EDC to sensors in a wireless network that enables these sensors to receive a data call from another communication device for example a smart phone or a mobile wireless device at an EDC or an EMS to request additional information from the sensor. The sensor in turn shares sensed information with the EDC or EMS and upon receiving this information the EDC for example a PSAP or an EMS actively shares this information with emergency response personnel in a real time fashion to better equip the emergency response personnel to provide an increasingly effective response to a request for emergency assistance. In such an embodiment the sensor in a wireless or a wired sensor network for example a IOT network has information about the sensor stored at the EMS or the EDC such that the calling information for example a phone number associated with the sensor is stored at a database at the EMS or the EDC. A telephone number is associated with a particular sensor for at particular sensing network and for a particular geographic region. In some instances the calling information is also associated with certain users based on the association of the users with the sensors. The association of the users with the sensors may be determined using several factors for example location information of the user and the sensor in the sensing network ownership of the sensor as assigned to the user a home location where the sensor is registered and the user is using as a primary residence. If there is a change in the identifying information of the sensor for example the location of operation the EMS or EDC is notified about this change and the EMS or EDC makes the appropriate updates in their local databases so that the sensor is associated with the users that are within the region of influence of the sensor and a new phone number is assigned to the sensor if such a need arises due to the change in physical location of the sensor. Further in such an embodiment the EMS or the EDC is able to add sensors to an on going session hosting the emergency response for a request for emergency assistance between the EMS and the user communication device and share with these sensors any relevant information for example text messages multimedia messages including multi media messaging system messages videos images GPS information and any other form of multi media messages and also share any information sent from the sensor to the EMS or the EDC with other sensors included in the data session with the user via the user communication device and or with the first responders assigned to the request for emergency assistance and manage. This information may be shared for the duration of the emergency response and saved for later reference. Further in such an embodiment the EMS or the EDC performs a search in the local database at the EMS or the EDC for sensors available in a given geographic area that is in the service area of the EMS or the EDC and also includes the latest location estimate of the user communication device as received from the device or from other sources on the network for example a cellular network base station and upon finding sensors that are located in the service area of the EMS or the EDC and that are also in the vicinity of the latest location estimate of the user communication device the location environment parameters can be sensed by the sensor. In such an embodiment the EMS or the EDC makes a decision regarding the association with the user via the defined sensing region of sensors in question and the location information of the users as identified by the home location IP address current geographic location of the communication device of the user and other factors identifying the location and type of user and the type of the request for emergency assistance so that a sensor can be chosen for the same.

In certain embodiments the sensed parameter sensed by the sensor of the sensor network may be a parameter of an environmental characteristic for example temperature pressure air flow amount of ambient light in the vicinity of the sensor amplitude and or frequency variations of sound vibrations in the vicinity of the sensor electromagnetic field variations or other environmental parameters sensed by the sensor.

In certain embodiments the sensors host an application client that initiates or responds to a communication session with the EMS or the EDC and constructs and sends using hardware provided by the sensor a message including an indication of the sensed information to the EMS or the EDC.

In certain embodiments the sensor contacted for requesting sensed information by the EMS or the EDC for purpose of emergency response is assigned a calling number while the request for emergency assistance is being processed by the EMS or the EDC. The sensor uses this phone number for the duration of the session used for responding to the emergency and in some instances continues to keep this number as the calling number for the sensor for other devices including the EMS and the EDC to place a data call to the sensor.

In certain embodiments the sensor network is placed in a public space for example a public park museum shopping mall or other populated public area.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention there is provided a method for the sensor in a sensor network to be assigned a calling number that is able to be used even if the user moves from a given location in one area code to another location in a difference area code and a data call placed to the sensor from an EMS or an EDC is routed to the sensor in the new area code and the latest location estimate of the sensor is shared with the EMS and or the EDC.

In certain embodiments the sensors host an application client that initiates and manages transmission of the warning signal and request for emergency response using hardware provided by the sensor for example the communication interface of the sensor and manages communication sessions with other sensors in the sensor network.

In some embodiments the wearable device includes one or more sensors for sensing various health indicators of the user or other people in need. Health indicators may include various attributes of the body that measure the health of a person such as heart rate pulse blood pressure blood sugar etc. In some embodiments the sensor may sense environmental characteristics in the area where the user is located. Environmental characteristics may include the level of parameters such as smoke carbon monoxide radioactivity temperature water chemical etc. that may indicate that there is an emergency situation and or provide situational awareness regarding an emergency. For example the sensor may include a pulse rate sensor a blood pressure sensor a blood oxygen sensor a heart rate sensor a temperature sensor a smoke detector a carbon monoxide monitor a gyroscope an accelerometer etc.

In some embodiments the sensor may trigger an emergency alert based on sensed information. The wearable device may send the emergency alert using the network element . The network element e.g. an antenna and associated components Wi Fi Bluetooth etc. may send and receive information to the Internet and or nearby IoT and other devices. In some embodiments the network element may scan the airways to detect and communicate with communication devices and routing devices in the vicinity.

In some embodiments the wearable device may include one or more software applications for sending the emergency alert. The application may be pre installed in the wearable device or may be downloaded and installed by the user . It is contemplated that the user or a healthcare provider or caregiver may provide information e.g. a prioritized list of communication devices threshold ranges for various health indicators or environmental characteristics into the application that may be used during an emergency situation. Various embodiments of the application will be described and depicted later.

In some embodiments the wearable device may include a central processing unit or processor a memory e.g. an EPROM memory a RAM a solid state memory . In some embodiments the wearable device is equipped with a global positioning system GPS . The GPS may generate and collect locational information that may be sent with the emergency alert.

In some embodiments the wearable device may include various accessories that may allow various functionality and customizations. The accessories may include a microphone e.g. for input of voice from user a camera e.g. for input of gestures commands or pictures from the user speakers fingerprint reader USB micro USB port headphone jack a card reader SIM card slot etc.

The wearable device may be worn by the user or attached to his or her body. In some embodiments the wearable device may have a holster not shown that can be strapped to the user s body parts e.g. wrist leg waist head fingers etc. . After an emergency alert is initiated either by a user or triggered in another way the sensor or wearable device may search for a communication device that can send the emergency alert. is an illustration of one embodiment of the invention showing a wearable device communicating with other devices through direct and indirect communication links. An indication of an emergency alert from a wearable device may be sent to a communication device wherein a suitable data communication link for example a digital communication session setup using a Transport protocol for example Transmission Control Protocol TCP may be established between the wearable device and the communication device . The user may initiate an emergency alert using an application client installed on the wearable device the application client on a communication device e.g. a mobile phone a tablet a laptop or desktop and other such devices. It is contemplated that an application could be hardwired into the wearable device for initiating the emergency alert.

In some embodiments the application client may include a display and user interface and be capable of displaying a plurality of user friendly buttons or soft keys each button corresponding to a particular type of emergency situation. Selection of a button by the user may cause an emergency indication to be sent to the communication device based on the emergency associated with the button. In some embodiments the user may initiate the emergency alert by pressing a button on the interface in the communication device with application .

In some cases the wearable device may be connected to a data network and or the Internet and may be able to send the alert to the EDC via EMS. However in many cases the wearable device may not be able to directly send the emergency alert because it may not have the capability or due to inadequate connectivity. In such cases responsive to selection of one of the buttons the wearable device may search for a communication device for example a mobile phone using either a direct wireless data communication link or an indirect data communication link via a routing or intermediary device such as a Wi Fi router. The wearable device may first attempt to locate and establish a data communication link for example a Wi Fi Bluetooth an ad hoc wireless mesh ZigBee PAN or any other form of a wireless communication protocol based communication session with the communication device utilizing a direct wireless data communication link .

In some cases the direct wireless data communication link cannot be established with a communication device or the quality of the data communication link is not good. For example the communication device may be too far from the wearable device . The wearable device may evaluate the quality of the data communication link based on various link quality parameters such as a received signal strength indicator channel latency error rate and so on. When the quality of the data communication link is insufficient the wearable device may initiate a data communication link with a computer networking device or routing device such as a Wi Fi router a hub or other such computer networking devices and may establish an indirect data connection with the communication device via the computer networking device . Once a data communication link is established with the communication device e.g. through exchange of control signals the wearable device sends an initiation of an emergency alert to the communication device and actively manages the data communication link between the wearable device and the communication device . If the wearable device detects that an established indirect data communication link is not performing as needed and a direct data communication link is available with other communication devices in the vicinity the wearable device may attempt to establish communication with such devices not shown . Thus the wearable device establishes a communication link with a communication device or the routing device both of which may act as the connected device.

In some embodiments upon receiving a positive confirmation the device waits for status updates from the EDC and actively manages the data communication link between the wearable device and the first communication device . If the wearable device does not receive a positive confirmation it waits for a set period and checks for another device on the list . If after this period of time the wearable device is not able to find any devices then it waits for the same period of time and tries again . If another device is found then the wearable device attempts to establish a communication link with the device to send an emergency alert.

If the wearable device is not able to reach the first communication device on the list after maximum retries the wearable device may move on to the next communication device on the list . In some embodiments if the maximum number of connection retries is reached and the wearable device is unsuccessful in reaching first communication device on the list the wearable device then attempts to reach a routing device not shown . If the wearable device is unable to reach any devices it may cancel the requests and informs the user .

In some embodiments the sensor is a wearable device. In some embodiments the emergency alert may be a multi media message including situational awareness information to allow for effective and efficient response. In one aspect the emergency alert may include a request for emergency assistance one or more information about the user or administrator one or more locational information and one or more sensed parameters. In some embodiments the multi media message includes different types of data including text image sound and or video. In some embodiments the sensed data may include current and previously sensed parameters and or a moving average MA of the sensed parameters.

In some embodiments the sensor may be a sensor in sensor network or an internet enabled device. Once the sensor confirms that a request for emergency assistance has to be sent to an EDC or an EMS the sensor may construct a request for emergency assistance and scan the airways for available communication devices or a routing device to associate with and to send the request via communication device .

The sensor may analyze the connection with various available devices for example communication device running application or an indirect communication link with another communication device running application using a Wi Fi router by estimating the quality of the data communication link based on various link quality parameters for example a received signal strength indicator channel latency or error rate. In some embodiments the user may be primary user of the communication device . But in other embodiments there may be another person such as a family member who may be the primary user of the communication device .

Once a suitable communication device for establishing a direct communication link is found or a routing device and communication device is found for establishing an indirect communication link the sensor connects to the suitable communication device via a communication link and sends the request for emergency assistance to the connected device. If the connected device is one of the communication devices it then regenerates the emergency request to be formatted to be sent over a communication link . In some embodiments the communication links are cellular channels and may send the request to an appropriate EDC serving the particular locality. If the connected device is a routing device then the sensor associates with the routing device via a Wi Fi channel. If available the routing device sends the request for emergency assistance to an EDC not shown directly over the communication link . In other embodiments the routing device will send the alert via communication device via communication links . Once the EDC not shown confirms receipt of the request for emergency assistance the communication device or routing device may inform the sensor and forward other updates from the EDC not shown .

If the routing device requires authentication to be performed it may send signals to the sensor to indicate that routing device needs authentication to be performed before the request for emergency assistance can be forwarded to an EDC . In some embodiments the user may provide authentication through the sensor or the routing device . Once authentication is performed the sensor may send the request for emergency assistance to the routing device and the routing device in turn may forward the request to an Emergency Management System EMS via a communication link . The EMS then may determine which EDC to send this request for emergency assistance based on proximity to the location of the emergency resources and staff available at the EDC etc. In some embodiments the EMS may send the request via a data communication link or a combination of a data communication link and a TDM call via a PSTN and a gateway . It is envisioned the present system will be able to send emergency alert to EDCs in some municipalities that does not have capacity to receive digital calls. If the EDC does not have digital capacity the emergency alert has to be sent through an emergency voice call session.

The EMS may then forward a response from the EDC to the routing device and it may forward these responses to the sensor . In some embodiments the EMS may send positive confirmation in the form of signaling http push notifications etc. to the sensor . The sensor may then respond to these messages by the EDC if the sensor deems that a response is necessary. In some cases the sensor may display the information on a display and user interface with buttons for the benefit of the user . The routing device may then actively manage the data communication link between the sensor and the EDC . Active management may involve sending updates from the sensor to the EDC and from the EDC to the sensor as requested by the sensor or the EDC during the length of the emergency call session or communication link. In some embodiments the user the EDC or the emergency response team may terminate the call session or communication link.

In one aspect a system is disclosed for sending an emergency alert including a sensor a communication device an EMS and an EDC. As shown in in one embodiment a sensor comprises a display and user interface with buttons and installed with application . The sensing component senses one or more parameters such as environmental characteristics and or health parameters and the communication component is able to establish a communication link for sending and receiving information. The communication device with display user interface buttons and installed application is able to participate in the communication link . In some embodiments the EMS receives the emergency alert from the communication device and for processing and forwarding the emergency alert to an EDC .

In some embodiments the sensor may perform a scan of the airways using the communication module not shown and may choose a communication device for example a cellular communication device to associate to and send the request for emergency assistance. The sensor may choose to associate with the communication device based on channel quality indicators for example a received signal strength indicator channel latency error rate etc. Then the sensor may attempt to establish a communication link with the cellular communication device .

If the communication device requires authentication to be performed it will send signals to the sensor to indicate that communication device needs authentication to be performed before it can re format and forward the request for emergency assistance to an EDC . In some embodiments the user may authenticate the communication through the sensor or communication device . After authentication the sensor may send the request for emergency assistance to the communication device . The communication device which is a cellular phone in this case may in turn format the request for emergency assistance to be sent over end to end communication links for example a TDM channel or a data communication link based on Internet Protocol. In some cases the communication device may add other information for example location of the cellular device and the sensor any multimedia information about the geographic location of the sensor which may be the GPS information in multi media format and the communication device any user inputted information video feeds of the geographic location meta data about the user readings from the sensor and any other available information that can build situational awareness about the emergency. In some embodiments the readings form sensor may indicate that the emergency situation is stable or becoming acute or improving. For example a smoke detector sensor could indicate if the user or others were able to alleviate a fire emergency by using a fire extinguisher.

In some cases the communication device may forward the re formatted request for assistance to an EMS via a data communication link . Sometimes the alert may be sent through cell tower and gateway via data communication links . The EMS may decide which EDC to send this request based on factors referred to above. In some embodiments the EMS may send the request to the appropriate EDC via a data communication link or a combination of data communication link and a TDM call via a PSTN and gateway . The EMS may then forward a response from the EDC to the communication device and the communication device may then forward these responses to the sensor . The sensor may then respond to these messages by the EDC if needed. In some cases the information may be displayed on a display and user interface on the sensor for the benefit of the user . The communication device may then manage the data communication link e.g. between the sensor and the EDC and send updates. As needed the sensor and the EDC may continue to communicate during the length of the emergency communication session.

In some embodiments the sensor may trigger an emergency alert when the sensed parameter is outside of a predefined threshold range TR . The threshold range may be inputted by the user setup during installing and updated by the user or other authorized agents. The advantage of calculating a moving average MA is that it will reduce the impact of a few aberrant sensor measurements and trigger the alarm if several measurements are outside the predefined range. It is contemplated that other functions and algorithms may be used in the place of or in addition to MA.

The sensor may then compare the MA to a set of threshold ranges for each environmental variable sensed by the sensor . If the MA of the environmental characteristics is within range TR then the sensor may return to sensing the environmental characteristics by waiting for the next sample interval to sense the values and calculate a new MA for the sensed environmental characteristics. If the MA of the sensed environmental value is not in TR the sensor may activate the emergency alert . To send the alert the sensor may scan the environment around it by generally scanning the airways for electromagnetic signals to detect a communication device or a routing device to associate with in order to send a request for emergency assistance to an EDC .

In some embodiments the sensor may compare the sensed parameter to a predefined warning range. In some embodiments if the sensed parameter is outside of the predefined warning range the sensor may send a warning signal to the communication device and the warning may be forwarded to an EDC with user input.

If a communication device is found then the sensor sends an association request to the communication device . If the association with the communication device is not successful then the sensor may return to scanning the airways for another communication or routing device . Upon successful association with the device the sensor sends request for emergency assistance via the communication device . The communication device that is used for sending the emergency alert may be referred to as the connected device. The communication device may wait for a response from the EDC via the connected device and responds to the requests from the EDC via the connected device while also updating the user about any specific messages given by the EDC. When there is no communication device available for association the sensor checks if it has detected a routing device . If no routing device is found then the sensor broadcasts a request for emergency response over a communication link available to the sensor via the communication module of the sensor . If a routing device is found then the sensor may send an association request to the routing device . If the association with the routing device is not successful act then the sensor may return to scanning the airways for another communication or routing device . Upon successful association with the routing device the sensor places a call for emergency assistance. Subsequently the sensor may respond to requests for information e.g. temperature pressure smoke level etc. from the EDC via the connected device while also updating the user.

Upon detecting that the sensor ID in the request for emergency assistance is different from the receiving sensor s ID the sensor may check if the same request for emergency assistance was broadcast by the sensor within a minimum time frame prior to reception of the request . If the same request for emergency assistance was broadcast then the sensor may checks if there is updated information about the request for emergency assistance either via checking the sensed signal at the sensor module of the sensor or by another method and upon detecting no new information to send the sensor stops the process and re broadcast periodically . If the sensor detects new information about the request for emergency assistance it may construct a new signal representing the updated sensed values and broadcasts this new information along with a re broadcast of the original request for emergency assistance .

Upon detecting that the received request for emergency assistance was not broadcast by the receiving sensor within a minimum time frame prior to the time of reception of the request the receiving sensor may sense the environment variables that pertain to this request from the sensor module on the sensor and verifies if this new information will enhance the received request for emergency assistance . If the sensor detects new information it may check if this new information will enhance the request for emergency assistance . If the sensor decides that it will enhance the received request for emergency assistance it may construct a new signal representing the updated sensed values and broadcast this new information along with a re broadcast of the original request for emergency assistance . If the sensor detects that this new information will not enhance the received request for emergency assistance it re broadcasts the original request for emergency assistance .

For example during an emergency situation such as a fire the first responders that arrive at the scene may be able to receive the re broadcast alert with sensed information i.e. the augmented alert . As the responders approach the site of the emergency they may activate a Wi Fi receiver to receive information from smoke sensors in the vicinity. In this way the first responders may gather additional situational awareness about the emergency and respond appropriately. In some embodiments the first responders may be able to send a request for information from sensors in the vicinity to identify people and pets in an indoor location during a fire.

In some embodiments an EMS or an EDC see may request situational awareness information from sensors identified to be in the vicinity of the user communication device requesting emergency assistance. is an illustration of one embodiment of a method for sending a query to a sensor for updated sensed parameters. When the EMS receives a request for emergency assistance from a user communication device for example a wearable device the EMS may forward it to the EDC . Then the EMS may send a query to a database of IoT devices associated with that location e.g. address or user. IoT devices may include temperature sensors or pressure sensors which may have addition information about the emergency situation. In some embodiments the database may include communication devices associated with a physical address or user.

Upon receiving a returned list of IoT devices that may have situational awareness information about the emergency from the database the EMS may request to establish a communication link with each of these sensors either directly or via in directly via an intermediate device for example an routing device hosted at the location of the sensors being contacted . When the communication link is established a communication session with these individual sensors can be held. In the communication session the EMS may request pertinent information stored on the sensor about the on going request for emergency assistance that is being responded to. Once the EMS has received information from all or at least a majority of sensors the EMS may combine the information received from each of the sensors and share the combined information with the EDC currently serving the request for emergency assistance .

In some embodiments the EDC or EMS may assign unique numbers to each individual sensor so they can be called for information during an emergency. In some embodiments the unique number assigned to individual sensors may follow a set format wherein the unique number assigned to a given sensor is sensitive to the location type and housing structure where the sensor is located. In some embodiments the sensor name can be used to identify the area and building where the sensor is location.

In some embodiments the wearable device may attempt to establish communication links with a plurality of communication devices through direct or indirect communication links for sending the emergency alert as shown in . As shown a wearable device with installed application sends the emergency alert to an EDC or EMS via a communication device with installed application . As depicted the communication device may be a phone a desktop a tablet . The wearable device may maintain a list of communication devices that can potentially be used to send the emergency alert via communication links . In some embodiments the wearable device maintains a prioritized list of communication devices using pre defined priorities in the list of communication devices stored at the wearable device . In some embodiments the user may identify the communication devices included in the prioritized list and may assign the priority. In other embodiments without user input the prioritized list may be generated in the wearable device based on variables such as proximity signal strength from the communication devices or recently connected devices. 

Based on the prioritized list the wearable device may attempt to establish a direct data communication link with the communication device . Upon a failure to do so the wearable device may then attempt to establish a data communication link with a second communication device in the prioritized list of communication devices and so on until a successful data communication link is established between the wearable device and one of the communication devices and positive confirmation is received from the EDC for example along communication link about the indication of the emergency alert sent by the wearable device . It is understood that positive confirmation referred to herein may refer to an acknowledgement or an ack message or a human initiated confirmation or analog signal from the EDC. For example if the EDC or EMS not shown responds to the emergency alert the wearable device may receive SIP signals.

In some embodiments it is contemplated that the wearable device may use an algorithm to choose the fastest and most efficient link to send the emergency alert. So the wearable device may attempt to establish to communication link with a plurality of communication devices simultaneously. Based on the response time and quality of the response the wearable device may choose the best device to send the emergency alert. In some cases it may be desirable for the wearable device to send the emergency to a plurality of communication devices simultaneously.

If the wearable device is able to find a device to pair with then it checks if the count of how many cycles the particular pairable device has been found at the given priority level is greater than a predefined threshold D Thresh and if the count is indeed greater than D Thresh then decrements the value of wait period to next lower value and waits for the period of time defined by wait period before detecting another timeout or user based event . If the count is not greater than D Thresh then the wearable device compares the SNR values of all the devices currently pairable or communicable by the wearable device in the list L of first communication devices and selects only the devices with a SNR value of at least the minimum predefined value of SNR low thresh in order of the SNR value of each device and follows this up by comparing the ACK Timeouts of the first communication devices that are selected in act above and chooses devices from this list L which have a ACK Timeout value of less than a predefined threshold of ACK max Time and after this the wearable device requests its own RSSI values as seen by individual first communication devices in the qualified list of communication devices L and selects devices with RSSI levels reported to be higher than a certain predefined value RSSI min level in the order of the RSSI value to generate a further qualified list L of the first communication devices .

The received signal strength indicator RSSI is a measurement of the power present in a received radio signal. The wearable device then re orders the list with the priority that is not based on communication link quality indicators and generates a list L and verifies to see if any of the devices has a changed position in the list of first communication devices L and upon not finding any device with a changed position the wearable device waits for the period of time defined by wait period before detecting another timeout or user based event .

If even one of the devices has a changed position in the list of first communication devices L then the wearable device re orders the list L of first communication devices as per the updated parameters list L to generate a final list of first communication devices and then chooses a first communication device from the list that is at the highest priority in the list of first communication devices L and associates the wearable device with this chosen first communication device . If the wearable device is not able to find a device to pair with then it checks if the count of having not found any pairable device is greater than a predefined threshold ND Thresh and if the count is indeed greater than ND Thresh then increments the value of wait period to next higher value and waits for the period of time defined by wait period before detecting another timeout or user based event . Otherwise the wearable device may wait for the period of time defined by wait period before detecting another timeout or user based event without incrementing the wait period to the next higher value. In some embodiments if the list of first communication devices L is not empty then the wearable device checks to see if any of the parameters about any of the devices in the list L are updated and if none of the devices have any updated parameters then it waits for the period of time defined by wait period before detecting another timeout or user based event. If even one of the devices has an updated parameter then it may follow the steps outlined for ACT above when the ACT decides NO for the question asked.

If the MTA count is less than or equal to the value of MTA U Thresh then the system may be instructed to wait for a predefined period of time for the next periodic value of the health indicator . As used herein the system includes the wearable device including one or more sensors the communication device the EDC see and an EMS if present . If MTA is in the range specified by R then MTA period a variable referring to a memory location and storing the number of times the MTA value has consecutively fallen inside a pre defined range R defined for the given health indicator the MTA period is incremented and then compared to MTA T Thresh a variable referring to a memory location and storing a number indicating a particularly high value for MTA period . If the MTA period value is less than the MTA T Thresh then the system is instructed to wait for a predefined period of time for the next periodic value of the health indicator . If the MTA period value is greater than the MTA T Thresh then the MTA count is decremented and compared to MTA L Thresh a variable referring to a memory location and storing a number indicating a particularly low value for MTA period . If the MTA count is less than the value of MTA L Thresh then an updated warning signal is sent to the EDC or EMS and the periodicity of reporting that particular health indicator is decreased . If the MTA count is greater than MTA L Thresh then the system is instructed to wait for a predefined period of time for the next periodic value of the health indicator.

In some embodiments the wearable device increments a count PR count if the MTA of the pulse rate is out of range of the Min RPR range and checks to verify if the PR count has equaled or passed a minimum threshold set for the pulse rate to be out of range from the Min RPR range . If the PR count is indeed equaled or passed a maximum threshold set for the pulse rate the wearable device issues a warning signal either displayed at a user interface of the wearable device or sent to an EDC via a communication device and an EMS and then waits for a specific period of time before sensing the health indicators and environment characteristics. If the PR count has not equaled nor passed the maximum threshold set for the pulse rate i.e. the PR count is less than the PR U Thresh then the wearable device checks to verify if the MTA value of the heart rate sensed values is out of range a predefined maximum range .

In some embodiments the wearable device sends a warning signal or an emergency alert based on the MTA value. If the MTA value of the heart rate sensed values is indeed out of range a predefined maximum range then wearable device issues a warning signal and waits for a specific period of time before sensing the health indicators and environment characteristics. If the MTA value of the heart rate sensed values is not out of range of a predefined maximum range then wearable device updates the EMS with the latest measured values of the pulse rate and heart rate and any other health indicators and decreases the periodicity of sensing and reporting health indicator values . If the MTA of the pulse rate is indeed out of range a predefined minimum range Min RPR the wearable device updates a counter for tracking the no change in pulse rate over a period of time PR no chg period and checks to see of the counter PR no chg period has reached a predefined lower threshold for the counter . If indeed the counter PR no chg period has reached a predefined lower threshold for the counter then the wearable device reports that the lower limit of the counter is reached and cannot be decremented any more indicating good pulse rate of the user at the given time otherwise the wearable device decrements the PR count.

In one embodiment provided herein are a methods for sending an emergency alert from a sensor comprising sensing a parameter by the sensor wherein the parameter is a health indicator of the user or one or more environmental characteristics comparing the parameter to one or more predefined ranges triggering an emergency alert when the parameter is outside of the predefined alarm range or a warning signal when the parameter is outside the predefined warning range scanning the airways around the sensor to locate one or more communicating devices selecting a communication device based on factors including a received signal strength indicator RSSI of the communication device at the sensor received signal strength of transmissions from the communication device at the sensor availability of wireless or wired channels for communication between the sensor and the communication device transmission delay on the communication link between the sensor and the communication device and other factors indicative of quality of a communication link between the sensor and the communication device selecting a routing device when the communication device is unavailable based on factors including one or more of a received signal strength of the routing device at the sensor availability of wireless or wired channels for communication between the sensor and the routing device ability to authenticate with the routing device transmission delay on the communication link between the sensor and the routing device and other factors indicative of quality of a communication link between the sensor and the routing device establishing a communication link to at least one of the communication device or the routing device wherein the routing device establishes an indirect communication link with a communication device and sending one or more of the emergency alert and warning signal via the connected device to an emergency dispatch center EDC . In some embodiments the sensor actively manages the communication link with the communication device whereby the sensor can respond with additional information. In some embodiments the sensor further hosts an application client which sends the emergency alert. In some embodiments the connected device hosts an application client which sends the emergency alert. In some embodiments the sensor is in a sensor network such as an IoT network a wireless sensor network or a wireless sensor and actuator network. In some embodiments the sensor is in a wearable device. In another embodiment provided herein are systems for sending an emergency alert comprising a sensor comprising a sensor module and a communication module wherein the sensor module senses one or more parameters and the communication module is able to establish a communication link a communication device wherein the communication device is able to participate in the communication link with the sensor and the communication device is available for sending an emergency alert an emergency management system EMS for receiving the emergency alert from the communication device and for processing and forwarding the emergency alert to an emergency dispatch center EDC . In one embodiment the emergency alert includes situational awareness information in a multi media message.

In one embodiment provided herein are methods for receiving a request for assistance from a sensor in a sensor network at an Internet enabled device this method comprising determining by the sensor a need for requesting emergency assistance based on a sensed parameter determined from a sequence of measurements taken by the sensor regarding one or more environmental characteristics of an environment the sensor is placed in selecting by the sensor a communication device based on a scan of the airways around the sensor the communication device selected based on factors including one or more of a received signal strength indicator RSSI of the communication device at the sensor received signal strength of transmissions from the communication device at the sensor availability of wireless or wired channels for communication between the sensor and the communication device transmission delay on the communication channel between the sensor and the communication device and other factors indicative of quality of a communication channel between the sensor and the communication device responsive to detecting that a communication device is unavailable for sending a request for emergency assistance selecting a routing device based on factors including one or more of a received signal strength of the routing device at the sensor availability of wireless or wired channels for communication between the sensor and the routing device ability to authenticate with the routing device transmission delay on the communication channel between the sensor and the routing device and other factors indicative of quality of a communication channel between the sensor and the routing device upon selecting at least one of the communication device and the routing device as a connected device setting up a communication session with the connected device and sending a request for emergency assistance via the connected device upon receiving a response from the connected device to the request for emergency assistance and based on the response changing a periodicity of reporting environment characteristics as sensed by the sensor to the connected device by one of constructing new warning signals or sending unformatted data to the connected device and actively managing the communication session between the sensor and the connected device and upon detecting that the connected device is unresponsive to messages sent by the sensor scanning the airways and selecting an alternate communication device or routing device to send requests for emergency assistance to an EDC.

In some embodiments the sensor in the sensor network further hosts an application client which initiates a communication session with one of a communication device or routing device and constructs and sends using the hardware provided by the sensor a warning signal and a request for emergency response to the one of the communication device or routing device.

In some embodiments the sensor and the sensor network it is placed in are located in one of a residential environment a corporate office environment an industrial factory environment or a public space. In some embodiments the sensed parameter comprises one or more of temperature pressure air flow amount of ambient light in the vicinity of the sensor amplitude and frequency variations of sound vibrations in the vicinity of the sensor electromagnetic field variations and other environmental parameters sensed by the sensor.

In some embodiments the method further comprises initiating by the sensor the request for emergency response by connecting to one of a communication device or routing device via another one or more sensors in the same or a different sensor network that the sensor belongs to the communication link between the sensor and the one of the communication device or routing device containing at least one type of communication protocol linking the two. In some embodiments the sensor network is an Internet of Things network containing a multitude of sensors and a communication protocol linking the sensors to each other and to the Internet.

In one embodiment provided herein are methods for broadcasting a request for assistance from a sensor in a sensor network. The method comprising determining by the sensor a need for requesting emergency assistance based on a sensed parameter determined from a sequence of measurements taken by the sensor regarding one or more environmental characteristics of an environment the sensor is placed in detecting by the sensor one of a communication device or a routing device upon detecting by the sensor based on a scan of airways around the sensor that the one of the communication device or routing device is unavailable for sending a request for emergency assistance sending by the sensor requests to other sensors in the sensor network to accept and re broadcast a warning signal and request for emergency response in their area of influence upon receiving by the other sensors in the sensor network the requests to re broadcast the warning signal re broadcasting the warning signal by the other sensors in the sensor network via communication interfaces of the other sensors in the sensor network in their area of influence upon detecting at a sensor updated information about environmental characteristics sensed by the sensor and responsive to determining that the environment characteristics are pertinent to an active request for emergency assistance sent and managed by one of the sensor or another sensor in the sensor network including the updated information along with the request for emergency assistance being re broadcast and responsive to the sensor detecting the updated information being the sensor that initiated the request for emergency response updating the warning signal and the request for emergency response and broadcasting the updated warning signal and request for emergency response.

In some embodiments the warning signal and the request for emergency response are formatted for any Internet enabled device with an ability to receive wireless signals at the frequency of broadcast of the sensor and to understand the signal contents.

In some embodiments the sensor and the sensor network are located in one of a residential environment a corporate office environment an industrial factory environment or a public space.

In one embodiment provided herein are user mobile communication devices configured to receive a request from a sensor in a sensor network the user communication device comprising a user interface physical interaction components a communication module configured to send and receive messages over a communication network and a processor configured to receive a request for assistance in an emergency situation from the sensor over one of a wireless or a wired channel and acknowledge the request to the sensor receive an indication of the type of emergency contained in the request for assistance from the sensor establish a data communication link to an EDC and send a signal to the EDC requesting emergency assistance based on the request for emergency assistance determine whether to update the sensor about a response from the EDC and establish and manage a data communication link to a sensor in a sensor network.

In one embodiment provided herein are routing devices configured to receive a request for association from a sensor in a sensor network the routing device comprising physical interaction components a communications module configured to send and receive messages over a communications network and a processor configured to receive a request for association from the sensor make a decision to associate the sensor perform an authentication sequence to authenticate the sensor responsive to an authentication process being required receive a request for assistance in an emergency situation from the sensor over one of a wireless and a wired channel acknowledge the request to the sensor receive an indication of the type of emergency contained in a warning signal from the sensor forward a request for emergency assistance received from the sensor to an EDC of established data communication links and update the sensor about a response from the EDC and

In one embodiment provided herein is a sensor in a sensor network and configured to send a request for emergency assistance the sensor comprising a user interface physical interaction components an environment sensor module capable of sensing a value of an environmental variable and sending an indication of the value to a processor of the sensor over a communication link internal to the sensor a communication module configured to send and receive messages over a communication network and a processor configured to interpret data from the environment sensor module construct a request for emergency assistance based on the sensed values as reported by the environment sensor module construct a warning signal indicating a type of emergency sensed by the sensor 

send the request for emergency assistance over one of a wired or a wireless channel to an EDC via a communication device including one of a cellular phone and a routing device send a request for association and a request for authentication responsive to an authentication process being requested to one of a routing device or a communication device receive an acknowledgment from the one of the communication device or the routing device about reception of the request for emergency assistance and receive a response from the EDC to the request for emergency assistance via the one of the communication device or routing device receive and re broadcast a request for emergency assistance received from another sensor in the sensor network and establish and manage a data communication link to one of a communication device a routing device or other sensors in the sensor network.

In one embodiment provided herein is a method of facilitating a data communication link between a user of a wearable device user and a communication device the method comprising establishing a data communication link between a wearable device and a first communication device wherein the first communication device is selected from a list of communication devices maintained at the wearable device the order of communication devices in the list being prioritized based on periodically sensed parameters including one or more of received signal strength number of messages not acknowledged within a specified period delay in response of periodic signals sent from the communication device to the wearable device and other indicators of quality of a data communication link responsive to detection that the data communication link is established between the wearable device and the first communication device is not responsive to messages from the wearable device establishing a second data communication link with a second communication device capable of constructing an emergency alert based on the indication of emergency alert sent by the wearable device and selected from a list of devices and sending an emergency indication to the second communication device responsive to one of detecting that a data communication link cannot be established between the wearable device and any communication device in the list and upon detecting that a link between the wearable device and a first user communication device is severed establishing a data communication link with an intermediate device the intermediate device being a wireless router a Wi Fi router a hub or any device capable of switching digital messages between other devices and establishing a data communication link between the wearable device and the first communication device via the intermediate device receiving an indication of an emergency alert via a digital signal from the wearable device at the first communication device via the data communication link constructing an emergency message at the first communication device that is based on an indication of emergency alert received by the wearable device the indication of emergency alert being a form of a digital signal including at least one of an audio file an interactive voice response IVR message a Short Message Service SMS text message a Multimedia Messaging Service MMS message an e mail message an Instant Messaging IM message and a message otherwise formatted for communication over the Internet as specified by the emergency signal sent by the wearable device sending this emergency alert to an emergency dispatch center and actively managing all the data communication links established between the wearable device and any communication device.

In one embodiment provided herein is a method for providing user health indicators to a user communication device the method comprising maintaining a database of one or more health indicators including one or more of heart rate pulse rate relative position blood pressure speed and other personal health related information measured by the wearable device periodically measuring a value of the one or more health indicators with the wearable device and receiving at the communication device from the wearable device digital signals containing an indication of the value of each of the one or more health indicators in a pre determined periodic fashion maintaining at the communication device a range the range containing one of a set of numeric values or a lower limit and an upper limit for each of the one or more health indicators measured by the wearable device and comparing at the communication device a time average of most recent values of each of the one or more health indicators to a respective range of each of the one or more health indicators and based on this comparison making a decision if one of the one or more health indicators is in range or out of range and upon deciding that the one of the one or more health indicators is out of range increasing the periodicity of receiving at the communication device from the wearable device digital signals containing an indication of the value of the one of the one or more health indicators and issuing a warning signal indicating the one of the one or more health indicators to be out of range until a time the received values of the one of the one or more health indicators is in range responsive to detecting that the data communication link between the wearable device and communication device is severed storing all periodic measured values of the one or more health indicators at the wearable device since the last successfully received value at the communication device and responsive to the data communication link being re established receiving at the communication device from the wearable device all of the stored values of the one or more health indicators from the wearable device calculating the distance of the wearable device from the communication device based on the signal strength of the received digital signals angle of arrival of the multi path signals and aspects of other signals received from the wearable device and reporting this distance to an emergency dispatch center for the purpose of emergency response.

In one embodiment provided herein is a user mobile communication device configured to receive an indication for emergency assistance from a wearable device the user communication device comprising a user interface a communication module configured to send and receive messages over a communication network a location determination module and a processor configured to receive an indication of a location of the user mobile communication device from the location determination module establish a data communication link to an emergency dispatch center and receive a real time response from the wearable device to a message from the user mobile communication device regarding an emergency response.

In one embodiment provided herein is a wearable device configured to send a request for emergency assistance to a user mobile communication device the wearable device comprising a user interface a communication module configured to send and receive messages over a communication network and a processor configured to display a plurality of user selectable emergency message indicators in the user interface each of the plurality of user selectable emergency message indicators indicative of a different type of emergency situation receive an indication of a selection of one of the user selectable emergency message indicators by a user responsive to receiving the indication of the selection generate a message including an indication of the selected one of the user selectable emergency message indicators and an indication of a value of one or more health indicators of the user including blood pressure pulse rate temperature speed and other indicators from respective hardware based modules in the wearable device and transmit a message indicating the type of emergency selected by the user in the user selectable interface and an indication of the values of the one or more health indicators via the communication module to the user mobile communication device.

In some embodiments the platforms media methods and applications described herein include a digital processing device a processor or use of the same. In further embodiments the digital processing device includes one or more hardware central processing units CPU that carry out the device s functions. In still further embodiments the digital processing device further comprises an operating system configured to perform executable instructions. In some embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected a computer network. In further embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected to the Internet such that it accesses the World Wide Web. In still further embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected to a cloud computing infrastructure. In other embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected to an intranet. In other embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected to a data storage device.

In accordance with the description herein suitable digital processing devices include by way of non limiting examples server computers desktop computers laptop computers notebook computers sub notebook computers netbook computers netpad computers set top computers handheld computers Internet appliances mobile smartphones tablet computers personal digital assistants video game consoles and vehicles. Those of skill in the art will recognize that many smartphones are suitable for use in the system described herein. Those of skill in the art will also recognize that select televisions video players and digital music players with optional computer network connectivity are suitable for use in the system described herein. Suitable tablet computers include those with booklet slate and convertible configurations known to those of skill in the art.

In some embodiments the digital processing device includes an operating system configured to perform executable instructions. The operating system is for example software including programs and data which manages the device s hardware and provides services for execution of applications. Those of skill in the art will recognize that suitable server operating systems include by way of non limiting examples FreeBSD OpenBSD NetBSD Linux Apple Mac OS X Server Oracle Solaris Windows Server and Novell NetWare . Those of skill in the art will recognize that suitable personal computer operating systems include by way of non limiting examples Microsoft Windows Apple Mac OS X UNIX and UNIX like operating systems such as GNU Linux . In some embodiments the operating system is provided by cloud computing. Those of skill in the art will also recognize that suitable mobile smart phone operating systems include by way of non limiting examples Nokia Symbian OS Apple iOS Research In Motion BlackBerry OS Google Android Microsoft Windows Phone OS Microsoft Windows Mobile OS Linux and Palm WebOS .

In some embodiments the device includes a storage and or memory device. The storage and or memory device is one or more physical apparatuses used to store data or programs on a temporary or permanent basis. In some embodiments the device is volatile memory and requires power to maintain stored information. In some embodiments the device is non volatile memory and retains stored information when the digital processing device is not powered. In further embodiments the non volatile memory comprises flash memory. In some embodiments the non volatile memory comprises dynamic random access memory DRAM . In some embodiments the non volatile memory comprises ferroelectric random access memory FRAM . In some embodiments the non volatile memory comprises phase change random access memory PRAM . In some embodiments the non volatile memory comprises the Magnetoresistive random access memory MRAM . In other embodiments the device is a storage device including by way of non limiting examples CD ROMs DVDs flash memory devices magnetic disk drives magnetic tapes drives optical disk drives and cloud computing based storage. In further embodiments the storage and or memory device is a combination of devices such as those disclosed herein.

In some embodiments the digital processing device includes a display to send visual information to a user. In some embodiments the display is a cathode ray tube CRT . In some embodiments the display is a liquid crystal display LCD . In further embodiments the display is a thin film transistor liquid crystal display TFT LCD . In some embodiments the display is an organic light emitting diode OLED display. In various further embodiments on OLED display is a passive matrix OLED PMOLED or active matrix OLED AMOLED display. In some embodiments the display is a plasma display. In some embodiments the display is E paper or E ink. In other embodiments the display is a video projector. In still further embodiments the display is a combination of devices such as those disclosed herein.

In some embodiments the digital processing device includes an input device to receive information from a user. In some embodiments the input device is a keyboard. In some embodiments the input device is a pointing device including by way of non limiting examples a mouse trackball track pad joystick game controller or stylus. In some embodiments the input device is a touch screen or a multi touch screen. In other embodiments the input device is a microphone to capture voice or other sound input. In other embodiments the input device is a video camera or other sensor to capture motion or visual input. In further embodiments the input device is a Kinect Leap Motion or the like. In still further embodiments the input device is a combination of devices such as those disclosed herein.

In some embodiments the platforms media methods and applications described herein include one or more non transitory computer readable storage media encoded with a program including instructions executable by the operating system of an optionally networked digital processing device. In further embodiments a computer readable storage medium is a tangible component of a digital processing device. In still further embodiments a computer readable storage medium is optionally removable from a digital processing device. In some embodiments a computer readable storage medium includes by way of non limiting examples CD ROMs DVDs flash memory devices solid state memory magnetic disk drives magnetic tape drives optical disk drives cloud computing systems and services and the like. In some cases the program and instructions are permanently substantially permanently semi permanently or non transitorily encoded on the media.

In some embodiments the platforms media methods and applications described herein include at least one computer program or use of the same. A computer program includes a sequence of instructions executable in the digital processing device s CPU written to perform a specified task. Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. In light of the disclosure provided herein those of skill in the art will recognize that a computer program may be written in various versions of various languages.

The functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments. In some embodiments a computer program comprises one sequence of instructions. In some embodiments a computer program comprises a plurality of sequences of instructions. In some embodiments a computer program is provided from one location. In other embodiments a computer program is provided from a plurality of locations. In various embodiments a computer program includes one or more software modules. In various embodiments a computer program includes in part or in whole one or more web applications one or more mobile applications one or more standalone applications one or more web browser plug ins extensions add ins or add ons or combinations thereof.

In some embodiments a computer program includes a web application. In light of the disclosure provided herein those of skill in the art will recognize that a web application in various embodiments utilizes one or more software frameworks and one or more database systems. In some embodiments a web application is created upon a software framework such as Microsoft .NET or Ruby on Rails RoR . In some embodiments a web application utilizes one or more database systems including by way of non limiting examples relational non relational object oriented associative and XML database systems. In further embodiments suitable relational database systems include by way of non limiting examples Microsoft SQL Server mySQL and Oracle . Those of skill in the art will also recognize that a web application in various embodiments is written in one or more versions of one or more languages. A web application may be written in one or more markup languages presentation definition languages client side scripting languages server side coding languages database query languages or combinations thereof. In some embodiments a web application is written to some extent in a markup language such as Hypertext Markup Language HTML Extensible Hypertext Markup Language XHTML or eXtensible Markup Language XML . In some embodiments a web application is written to some extent in a presentation definition language such as Cascading Style Sheets CSS . In some embodiments a web application is written to some extent in a client side scripting language such as Asynchronous Javascript and XML AJAX Flash Actionscript Javascript or Silverlight . In some embodiments a web application is written to some extent in a server side coding language such as Active Server Pages ASP ColdFusion Perl Java JavaServer Pages JSP Hypertext Preprocessor PHP Python Ruby Tcl Smalltalk WebDNA or Groovy. In some embodiments a web application is written to some extent in a database query language such as Structured Query Language SQL . In some embodiments a web application integrates enterprise server products such as IBM Lotus Domino . In some embodiments a web application includes a media player element. In various further embodiments a media player element utilizes one or more of many suitable multimedia technologies including by way of non limiting examples Adobe Flash HTML 5 Apple QuickTime Microsoft Silverlight Java and Unity .

In some embodiments a computer program includes a mobile application provided to a mobile digital processing device. In some embodiments the mobile application is provided to a mobile digital processing device at the time it is manufactured. In other embodiments the mobile application is provided to a mobile digital processing device via the computer network described herein.

In view of the disclosure provided herein a mobile application is created by techniques known to those of skill in the art using hardware languages and development environments known to the art. Those of skill in the art will recognize that mobile applications are written in several languages. Suitable programming languages include by way of non limiting examples C C C Objective C Java Javascript Pascal Object Pascal Python Ruby VB.NET WML and XHTML HTML with or without CSS or combinations thereof.

Suitable mobile application development environments are available from several sources. Commercially available development environments include by way of non limiting examples AirplaySDK alcheMo Appcelerator Celsius Bedrock Flash Lite .NET Compact Framework Rhomobile and WorkLight Mobile Platform. Other development environments are available without cost including by way of non limiting examples Lazarus MobiFlex MoSync and Phonegap. Also mobile device manufacturers distribute software developer kits including by way of non limiting examples iPhone and iPad iOS SDK Android SDK BlackBerry SDK BREW SDK Palm OS SDK Symbian SDK webOS SDK and Windows Mobile SDK.

Those of skill in the art will recognize that several commercial forums are available for distribution of mobile applications including by way of non limiting examples Apple App Store Android Market BlackBerry App World App Store for Palm devices App Catalog for webOS Windows Marketplace for Mobile Ovi Store for Nokia devices Samsung Apps and Nintendo DSi Shop.

In some embodiments a computer program includes a standalone application which is a program that is run as an independent computer process not an add on to an existing process e.g. not a plug in. Those of skill in the art will recognize that standalone applications are often compiled. A compiler is a computer program s that transforms source code written in a programming language into binary object code such as assembly language or machine code. Suitable compiled programming languages include by way of non limiting examples C C Objective C COBOL Delphi Eiffel Java Lisp Python Visual Basic and VB .NET or combinations thereof. Compilation is often performed at least in part to create an executable program. In some embodiments a computer program includes one or more executable complied applications.

In some embodiments the platforms media methods and applications described herein include software server and or database modules or use of the same. In view of the disclosure provided herein software modules are created by techniques known to those of skill in the art using machines software and languages known to the art. The software modules disclosed herein are implemented in a multitude of ways. In various embodiments a software module comprises a file a section of code a programming object a programming structure or combinations thereof. In further various embodiments a software module comprises a plurality of files a plurality of sections of code a plurality of programming objects a plurality of programming structures or combinations thereof. In various embodiments the one or more software modules comprise by way of non limiting examples a web application a mobile application and a standalone application. In some embodiments software modules are in one computer program or application. In other embodiments software modules are in more than one computer program or application. In some embodiments software modules are hosted on one machine. In other embodiments software modules are hosted on more than one machine. In further embodiments software modules are hosted on cloud computing platforms. In some embodiments software modules are hosted on one or more machines in one location. In other embodiments software modules are hosted on one or more machines in more than one location.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods disclosed herein include one or more databases or use of the same. In view of the disclosure provided herein those of skill in the art will recognize that many databases are suitable for storage and retrieval of barcode route parcel user or network information. In various embodiments suitable databases include by way of non limiting examples relational databases non relational databases object oriented databases object databases entity relationship model databases associative databases and XML databases. In some embodiments a database is internet based. In further embodiments a database is web based. In still further embodiments a database is cloud computing based. In other embodiments a database is based on one or more local computer storage devices.

While preferred embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described herein it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that such embodiments are provided by way of example only. Numerous variations changes and substitutions will now occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the invention. It should be understood that various alternatives to the embodiments of the invention described herein may be employed in practicing the invention.

In some embodiments the computer program includes a web browser plug in. In computing a plug in is one or more software components that add specific functionality to a larger software application. Makers of software applications support plug ins to enable third party developers to create abilities which extend an application to support easily adding new features and to reduce the size of an application. When supported plug ins enable customizing the functionality of a software application. For example plug ins are commonly used in web browsers to play video generate interactivity scan for viruses and display particular file types. Those of skill in the art will be familiar with several web browser plug ins including Adobe Flash Player Microsoft Silverlight and Apple QuickTime . In some embodiments the toolbar comprises one or more web browser extensions add ins or add ons. In some embodiments the toolbar comprises one or more explorer bars tool bands or desk bands.

In view of the disclosure provided herein those of skill in the art will recognize that several plug in frameworks are available that enable development of plug ins in various programming languages including by way of non limiting examples C Delphi Java PHP Python and VB .NET or combinations thereof.

Web browsers also called Internet browsers are software applications designed for use with network connected digital processing devices for retrieving presenting and traversing information resources on the World Wide Web. Suitable web browsers include by way of non limiting examples Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox Google Chrome Apple Safari Opera Software Opera and KDE Konqueror. In some embodiments the web browser is a mobile web browser. Mobile web browsers also called mircrobrowsers mini browsers and wireless browsers are designed for use on mobile digital processing devices including by way of non limiting examples handheld computers tablet computers netbook computers subnotebook computers smartphones music players personal digital assistants PDAs and handheld video game systems. Suitable mobile web browsers include by way of non limiting examples Google Android browser RIM BlackBerry Browser Apple Safari Palm Blazer Palm WebOS Browser Mozilla Firefox for mobile Microsoft Internet Explorer Mobile Amazon Kindle Basic Web Nokia Browser Opera Software Opera Mobile and Sony PSP browser.

Jane Bond a heart patient is alone in her home. Jane is wearing a wearable device on her wrist with a pulse sensor which measures her pulse rate periodically. The wearable device is installed with an application which will measure her pulse rate more frequently when it begins to fall outside a threshold range. The device also has a second sensor an accelerometer for detecting motion. Based on her doctor s recommendations Jane has inputted the threshold range for her pulse and other health indicators into the wearable device. When the pulse is in the normal range the wearable device will instruct the pulse sensor to measure the pulse rate less frequently. In addition Jane s doctor has advised her to strap a heart rate sensor an external sensor for the wearable device to her chest to monitor her heart rate when she is not feeling well. When worn together the heart rate sensor periodically sends her heart rate values to the application on the wearable device on Jane s wrist. When the pulse rate and the heart rate is outside the pre defined threshhold it is a sign that Jane s heart is functioning abnormally. As Jane gets up from bed and goes to the kitchen for some water her pulse rate drops and the wearable device monitors the pulse rate and heart rate simultaneously and issues a warning signal when both fall outside of the pre defined ranges following a scheme. Jane collapses and the accelerometer on her wearable device detects the fall. Based on information from the pulse sensor and heart rate sensor indicating that her heart is not functioning normally the application on the wearable device decides to send an emergency alert. If the wearable device does not have a data signal it will search for a list of communication devices in a prioritized list. Jane had entered several communication devices including her cell phone her tablet her husband s cell phone and the doctor s emergency line in the list while the wearable device is also capable of searching for and identifying communication devices that are in the vicinity to augment the list. At this time Jane s cell phone and tablet are switched off. Her husband has left his cell phone at home and the wearable device goes through the list and establishes a communication link with her husband s cell phone to send the emergency alert augmented with Jane s pulse and heart rate sensor data so that an ambulance with appropriate equipment can be included in the emergency response. The alert also includes location information from her husband s cell phone. James cell phone is located in a distant room in the house and the wearable device is unable to establish a direct connection. The wearable device then establishes an indirect connection with the cell phone through the home Wi Fi router. The wearable device then sends the emergency alert to the EMS through this indirect connection. The EMS receives the emergency alert and locates the EDC serving her locality using location information from the emergency alert and delivers the alert with a request for assistance to the local EDC. The EMS formats the message into a format that is compatible with the EDC which is not able to receive digital or data communications. Here the EDC in Jane s area can only receive voice calls so the EMS converts the message into a voice message for the EDC. The voice message includes sensed information about Jane s pulse and heart rate. With relevant situational information in hand e.g a medical emergency because a person s pulse and heart rate is low the EDC sends first responders with appropriate medical capabilities. On the way the medical staff send a request to the wearable device through Jane s husband s phone to send them emergency medical and prescription information which Jane had saved for emergencies. Further the EMS searches its device location database to locate any IoT devices inside Jane s home. The EMS locates a motion sensor and sends a request for real time and historical information from the sensor through her husband s phone to share with first responders. Fortunately the motion sensor is located in the 2floor bedroom where Jane collapsed and the historical sensor data reveals movement data with time stamp information that is close in proximity to transmission of the emergency alert to the EMS. The EMS relays this information to the EDC and first responders who quickly enter Jane s home and go up the stairs to find her. Thanks to the prompt and efficient emergency response augmented with this new technology Jane is able to make a fast recovery.

Bob has a network of IoT devices installed in his house including smoke detectors. He also has a communication device mobile phone and a Wi Fi routing device in the house. The IoT devices are assigned with unique ID numbers and registered in a device location database DLDB . When a fire breaks out in a basement the smoke detector in the basement raises an alarm and broadcasts an emergency alert including a request for emergency assistance to the EMS. The EMS looks up the sensor ID in the database and discovers the physical address of the house where the sensor is located. The EMS sends the emergency alert with the address information to the appropriate EDC in a compatible format. To gain further situational information the EMS looks up other IoT devices in the house and sends data requests for sensed information to those devices. As the EMS receives updated sensor data from the other IoT devices in Bob s house it is able to monitor the spread of the fire and update the EDC and first responders in real time. In addition to sending the emergency alert the smoke detector in the basement broadcasts the message to other IoT devices in the network. The smoke detector at the top of the basement stairs detects the broadcast of the emergency alert and adds sensed information sensor data about the smoke level and periodically broadcasts an augmented alert and re broadcasts the message. When first responders approach the house they are able to communicate with the IoT devices in the house and get updates about the smoke level in different parts of the house so that they can quickly and effectively respond to the fire.

While preferred embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described herein it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that such embodiments are provided by way of example only. Numerous variations changes and substitutions will now occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the invention. It should be understood that various alternatives to the embodiments of the invention described herein may be employed in practicing the invention. It is intended that the following claims define the scope of the invention and that methods and structures within the scope of these claims and their equivalents be covered thereby.

