---

title: Data routing in hybrid wireless communication networks
abstract: Data is routed in a mesh network of devices that can communicate wirelessly through a plurality of technologies. One or more of such devices receive broadcast message(s) from a destination device intended to receive the data, and generate a first radio link quality metric (RLQM) value based on the broadcast message(s). A source device originates and delivers a quantum of data with an embedded first RLQM value. A set of intermediate devices relays the quantum of data if a forwarding criterion is fulfilled; the forwarding criterion is based in part on the first RLQM value and a second RLQM value generated by an intermediate device in the set of intermediate devices based on the broadcast message(s). The intermediate device exploits an optical interface to transmit the quantum of data. The destination device broadcasts an acknowledgement signal in response to receiving intended data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09642064&OS=09642064&RS=09642064
owner: NEC Laboratories America, Inc.
number: 09642064
owner_city: Princeton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160419
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to each of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 589 643 and entitled DATA ROUTING IN HYBRID WIRELESS COMMUNICATION NETWORKS filed Jan. 5 2015 which is a continuation of U.S. Pat. No. 8 958 291 entitled DATA ROUTING IN HYBRID WIRELESS COMMUNICATION NETWORKS filed Dec. 14 2009 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 250 321 filed on Oct. 9 2009 and entitled DATA FORWARDING IN OPTICAL RADIO HYBRID WIRELESS COMMUNICATION NETWORKS the entireties of which applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The subject disclosure relates generally to wireless communications and more particularly to routing data in a network of devices that can communicate wirelessly through a plurality of interfaces.

Mesh networks of devices that can communicate wirelessly via a radio interface and an optical interface generally route data via the radio interface because it may be easier to form radio links between the radio interfaces of nearby devices. In addition radio communication does not have the line of sight clearance requirement between a pair of transmitter and receiver. Compared to wide beam optical communication WOC technologies such as the Visible Light Communication VLC radio communication oftentimes has the advantage of longer range. In the alternative such mesh networks route data based on solution s of a mesh network forwarding problem in which addresses the issue of how to forward data from a first node to a second node in the mesh network over a multi optical hop network. Compared to data routing via radio interface s forwarding data over multiple optical links formed amongst pair of nodes in the mesh network typically can provide higher data throughput better security and more efficient energy consumption. Yet implementation of data routing based on solution s of forwarding problem s in the mesh network commonly entails for example exchange of network topology information such as neighbor configuration so that each device or node in the mesh network can determine how a data packet has to be forwarded to reach its destination node. In addition solution s of forwarding problem s also include storage and maintenance e.g. update of various realizations of routes for data packet delivery. Therefore in view of at least such exchange and storage of information it is readily apparent that routing data in a mesh network based on solution s of a forwarding problem is generally resource intensive and thus can hinder network performance especially although not exclusively in high density mesh networks.

The subject disclosure is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments of the subject disclosure. It may be evident however that the subject disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the various embodiments of the subject disclosure.

As used in this application the terms component system platform layer node interface and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein the computer related entity and the entity related to the operational apparatus can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. One or more of such computer related entities or entities related to the operational apparatus are also referred to herein as functional elements. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server or network controller and the server or network controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that confers at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components. While the foregoing examples are directed to aspects of a component the exemplified aspects or features also apply to a system platform layer node interface and the like.

Various aspects of the subject disclosure are presented in terms of systems or embodiments that may include a number of components modules nodes interfaces platforms or the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems or embodiments may include additional components modules etc. and or may not include all of the components modules nodes interfaces platforms etc. discussed in connection with the annexed drawings. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Further yet the term set as employed herein excludes the empty set. Thus a set in the subject disclosure includes one or more elements or entities. As an illustration a set of devices includes one or more devices a set of recipients includes one or more recipients a set of addresses can include K addresses with K a natural number greater than or equal to unity.

One or more embodiments system s device s and method s to route data in a mesh network of devices that can communicate wirelessly through radio and free space optical interfaces. For a destination device intended to receive the data at least one device in the mesh network can receive broadcast message s from the destination device and generate a radio link quality metric RLQM value based on the broadcast message s . A source device that resides within radio communication range of the destination device and originates a quantum of data e.g. a data packet a frame a symbol can deliver the quantum of data with an embedded first RLQM value the quantum of data intended to the destination device. An intermediate device that receives the quantum of data with the embedded first RLQM value can relay the quantum of data if the first RLQM value and a second RLQM value generated by the intermediate device fulfill a predetermined forwarding criterion which can be based in part on at least one of the first or second RLQM values. The intermediate device can forward the quantum of data through its free space optical interface the forwarded quantum of data is formatted to include the second RLQM value. After the quantum of data is received the destination device broadcasts an acknowledgement ACK signal via at least one of a radio telecommunication interface or an optical interface functionally available to the destination device. The ACK signal is utilized by one or more intermediate devices as an indication to discard queued instance s of the quantum of data and as an end to end acknowledgement of successful transmission for the source device.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the disclosure then comprises the features hereinafter fully described. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the disclosure. However these aspects are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the disclosure may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description of the disclosure when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

As described in greater detail below the subject disclosure relates to routing or forwarding data in a mesh network of devices which can communicate wirelessly through a plurality of telecommunication interfaces e.g. a radio telecommunication interface and a telecommunication optical interface wherein a source node and a collector node in the mesh network are within the mutual telecommunication range of a first interface e.g. radio communication range available to such nodes but outside of the mutual telecommunication range of a second interface e.g. Wide beam Optical Communication WOC interface available to such nodes. In an aspect the various telecommunication interfaces can have complementary features and operate in accordance with disparate technologies and communication protocols. For example compared to radio optical telecommunication can support higher data rate s yet shorter telecommunication range. Moreover optical telecommunication typically is more secure and energy efficient. Conventionally in mesh network in which one or more of the devices comprise radio and optical interfaces for telecommunication the source and collector node communicate over the radio interface. In contrast in the subject disclosure if the mesh network density is effectively or sufficiently high that there are intermediate nodes located between the source node and the destination node such intermediate nodes can serve as relay nodes for telecommunication through the second interface e.g. WOC interface from the source node to the destination node. Thus efficiencies or advantages of telecommunication through the second interface e.g. WOC interface can be realized. For example advantages of optical telecommunication e.g. WOC such as high throughput low energy consumption and high security can be achieved. Various aspects or features described herein convey various mechanisms or approaches to organization or coordination of data e.g. data packet relaying.

Features or aspects of data delivery within a wireless environment that comprises a set of hybrid devices are illustrated herein with data packet s . However such features or aspects set forth in the subject disclosure can be exploited for substantially any or any type of data quantum e.g. a frame a symbol a chip as established in accordance with a network communication protocol employed by hybrid device s in the set of hybrid devices.

Referring to the drawings illustrates an example wireless environment that includes devices that can communicate wirelessly through radio and free space optical communication interfaces in accordance with aspects described herein. Different from traditional narrow beam such as laser based optical communication devices the transmitters of this type of optical communication devices emit wide beam light with low cost light sources such as light emitting diodes LEDs . When a device s optical receptor can receive transmissions made by another device s optical transmitter an optical link is formed from the transmitter to the receiver. This type of free space optical communication primarily is designed for short range e.g. in room telecommunications. We refer to this type of new communication as Wide beam Optical Communication WOC . Because WOC devices do not require complex mechanical and lens systems for targeting and focusing communication beam they are low cost and easy to deploy.

The devices can accomplish optical wireless communication at least in part through WOC and are deployed in a mesh network. Such devices are referred to herein as radio WOC hybrid devices or hybrid devices. A mesh network formed with hybrid devices includes wireless links not shown in of radio and optical communication technologies and thus can exploit advantages of both radio and WOC communications. A hybrid device can establish a wireless radio link through a radio interface and a wireless optical link through an optical interface. Hybrid devices in such mesh network are also referred to herein as nodes. In hybrid devices e.g. radio telecommunication interface is represented with a trident segment whereas optical telecommunication interface is represented with a segment with an associated outgoing arrow.

In an aspect of wireless communication described herein data e.g. a data packet can be delivered or routed from a source node to a collector node through multi hop WOC. The source node is a hybrid device e.g. with optical telecommunication range and that operates within the radio transmission range of the collector node which also is a hybrid device e.g. with radio transmission range indicated with a dashed line arc within a mesh network of hybrid devices. The source node and the collector node are outside their range of optical wireless communication. Thus a set of intermediate nodes e.g. forwards or relays data from the source node to the collector node via optical wireless communication. Each node in the set of intermediate nodes is a hybrid device and two or more nodes such set can operate within their range of optical wireless communication. For instance optical communication range of hybrid device can overlap with optical communication range of hybrid device and such hybrid devices can be included in a set of intermediate nodes that enable communication of data amongst hybrid device and hybrid device which in an example wireless communication scenario can embody respectively a source node and a collector node.

In the subject disclosure delivery or routing of data can exploit attenuation or path loss of electromagnetic EM radiation waves as they propagate through a medium. As hybrid devices within a mesh network can operate within their range of radio wireless communication data can be routed towards a destination node e.g. a collector node in direction s that can increase radio signal quality or strength. A first hybrid device in a mesh network can utilize a radio link quality metric RLQM to assess radio signal strength RSS or radio propagation attenuation for a radio signal received from a second hybrid device and such RLQM can be exploited at least in part to deliver or route data. As an example at least one node in a set of intermediate nodes e.g. hybrid devices and can determine an RLQM for radio for radio signal received from a collector node e.g. hybrid device and retain such RLQM in a memory operationally coupled e.g. functionally integrated or attached to the at least one node. An RLQM can include one or more metrics for radio signal strength such as radio signal strength RSS indicator s . Data transmitted from a source node to a set of intermediate nodes and relayed amongst intermediate nodes in such set also convey an RLQM value as determined by a node originates data transmission such RLQM value is updated prior to delivery by the node that originates data transmission. In addition RLQM value also can be exploited to dictate delivery priority of a data packet available for transmission from two or more intermediate nodes e.g. hybrid device and hybrid device .

In an illustrative telecommunication scenario if hybrid device operates as collector node RSS indicators of radio signal delivered by hybrid device as observed at hybrid devices and can adopt values denoted by RSS RSS RSS and RSS. As power of emitted EM radiation decays as distance increases from the EM radiation emitter hybrid devices that are more distant from hybrid device observe a smaller RSS indicator For illustrated hybrid devices in example environment RSS indicators satisfy RSS RSS

With respect to conventional approaches to routing of data in a mesh network at least one advantage of the features or aspects described herein is that data can be transmitted from a source node to a collector node without generation and retention of forwarding paths or routes or exchange of topology information e.g. neighborhood configuration s of the underlying mesh network. Such conventional approaches typically require nodes e.g. hybrid devices in the mesh network to discover its neighboring nodes and exchange topology information or knowledge to determine e.g. compute forwarding paths towards different destinations e.g. collector nodes. Such discovery and information exchange generally demands utilization of non negligible communication resources especially but not exclusively wireless communication medium access time. In contrast in a mesh network of hybrid devices data transmission enabled by system s device s and method s of the subject disclosure does not rely in generation or exchange of topology knowledge and can utilize efficiently various available telecommunication resources e.g. airtime or downlink and uplink radio channels . Thus the features or aspects of the subject disclosure can afford low resource overhead with ensuing energy efficiency advantages such as battery lifetime preservation of hybrid devices that are part of the mesh network.

At least another advantage of the aspects or features disclosed herein with respect to routing or forwarding data directly over a radio link is that data forwarding as described herein is accomplished through multi hop free space optical communication e.g. WOC which can result in higher data throughput increased security and higher energy efficiency as compared to conventional radio telecommunication.

Additional details of hybrid devices and related data forwarding or routing in accordance with aspects of the subject disclosure are described next in connection with . In example system source node is embodied in hybrid device J J is a natural number and collector node is embodied in hybrid device K K is a natural number and K J . As described supra radio communication ranges of source node and collector node overlap whereas their ranges of optical communication e.g. WOC are spatially disjointed see e.g. . Moreover wireless delivery of data from source node to collector node is enabled at least in part through a set of hybrid devices and termed collectively relay nodes V R Q and S are natural numbers. While for illustration purposes four relay nodes are illustrated it should be appreciated that a set of relay nodes can include two or more hybrid devices. Relay nodes are deployed within the radio communication range of hybrid device .

A hybrid device in example system or example wireless environment can receive and transmit wireless signal s e.g. signaling or data from and to a disparate hybrid device through a set of communication interfaces. In one or more embodiments such as example embodiment a hybrid device can include two communication interfaces to transmit and receive wireless signal i radio telecommunication interface also referred to herein and in annexed drawings as radio interface and ii optical telecommunication interface also referred to herein and in annexed drawings as optical interface . Radio interface includes antenna s and communication platform I whereas optical interface includes optical component and communication platform . Antenna s receive and transmit electromagnetic EM radiation with wavelengths in at least the radiofrequency or microwave portion of the EM spectrum received EM radiation is conveyed to communication platform I for processing. Optical component can receive and transmit EM radiation in the visible infrared or higher frequency portion of the EM spectrum and can convey received signal s to communication platform II . Communication platform I and communication platform II comprise electronic components and associated circuitry that provides for processing and manipulation of received signal s and signal s to be transmitted wherein the such signal s are received or transmitted in suitable portions of the EM spectrum. The electronic components and circuitry can include a set of one or more chipsets that enable digital to analog analog to digital conversion multiplexing demultiplexing signal s coding decoding signal s conveyed in accordance with a telecommunication protocol associated with a telecommunication technologies. In one or more embodiments at least one of communication platform I or communication platform II can include circuitry e.g. one or more chipsets not shown and at least a portion of one or more processors to switch radio technology or optical technology within a configurable and upgradable set of technologies in order to effect radio or optical telecommunication.

Source node collector node and each node in the set of relay nodes receive via respective radio interfaces signaling broadcasted by hybrid device . Signaling conveys a broadcast message such as a beacon message that is utilized by each of such nodes to determine RLQM value s . The broadcast message e.g. the beacon message includes at least one of an identity ID of the collector node or a broadcast message ID. The broadcast message ID or beacon message ID is updated e.g. increased for each instance the broadcast message e.g. the beacon message is broadcasted. In one or more embodiments of a hybrid device e.g. embodiment beacon component can generate the broadcast message and related identifier s . In addition beacon component through at least one of radio interface or optical interface can deliver the generated broadcast message. Beacon component can transmit broadcast message s periodically with a period or in accordance with a predetermined schedule. Both the period and the predetermined schedule can be configurable and retained in schedule s store also termed herein as schedule s within memory . Beacon component can exploit clock layer s to account time and determine an instant in which a broadcast message is to be transmitted.

When the broadcast message e.g. beacon message that is delivered as part of signaling is received by a hybrid device within the radio communication range of the collector node e.g. the hybrid device records at least one of the ID of the collector node the beacon message ID and one or more RLQM value s determined based at least on the broadcast message. In an aspect an RLQM can include one or more metrics for signal strength such as radio signal strength RSS indicator s or received signal code power RSCP indicators. In addition or in the alternative RLQM can include quality metrics such as signal to noise ratio SNR signal to noise and interference ratio SNIR or energy per chip over total received power E N coefficient s . The hybrid device e.g. or can retain one or more records of the foregoing information. In one or more embodiments of a hybrid device such as embodiment a record of at least one of the ID of a collector node a beacon ID and one or more RLQM value s determined based at least on received broadcast message s can be recorded within memory as part of data storage . If a new broadcast message is received by the hybrid device such record is updated. In example system hybrid device and the set of hybrid devices and are within radio communication range of hybrid device and thus record the foregoing information as described hereinbefore.

To route a data packet from source node to collector node hybrid device J delivers the data packet through an optical e.g. a WOC wireless link hybrid devices and can be deployed in such an arrangement that are able to receive the data packet whereas hybrid devices and do not receive the data packet . In an aspect of the subject disclosure in addition to payload data a data packet e.g. data packet routed in accordance with aspects described herein includes at least one of an ID of the collector or destination node a packet ID or an RLQM value. The RLQM value is determined by the hybrid node that transmits the data packet e.g. data packet wherein the RLQM value conveys radio signal quality delivered by the collector node and observed by such hybrid node. In one or more embodiments of a hybrid device e.g. embodiment assessment component can generate value s of a radio link quality metric. In an aspect to generate such values assessment component can collect and analyze broadcast message received through at least one of radio interface or optical interface and evaluate the RLQM. To perform such evaluation assessment component can analyze collected broadcast message to extract noise features such as spectral profile noise amplitude statistics etc. as part of evaluation of the RLQM. It should be appreciated that as operational complexity of a hybrid device increases RLQMs that are more complex can be evaluated.

As described supra based at least on determined values of an RLQM and relative magnitude of such values with respect to the RLQM value determined by the source node one or more hybrid devices that received the data packet and are part of the set of relay nodes can forward the data packet . In example system hybrid device transmits a data packet via an optical link wherein the data packet includes the same payload data as the received data packet and the value of the RLQM determined by hybrid device . Hybrid devices that are part of the set of relay nodes and receive the data packet can exploit at least in part respectively determined RLQM values to transmit an instance of data packet such instance can be characterized for a specific RLQM value associated with the forwarder hybrid device. In an aspect the instance of data packet includes the same payload data and an updated value for the embedded RLQM value transported in the data packet. As illustrated in example system hybrid device can forward e.g. rebroadcast the updated version of the received data packet the updated version of such data packet is labeled and is received by collector node .

In an aspect of the subject disclosure an intermediate node can forward the received data packet if a forwarding eligibility criterion or routing criterion is fulfilled. In an aspect an eligibility forwarding criterion is based on a difference amongst an RLQM value e.g. RSS indicator generated at the intermediate node and the RLQM value embedded in the data packet to be forwarded If the difference exceeds a predetermined margin or margin the intermediate node can transmit the data packet. Accordingly the difference amongst RLQM values serves as a forwarding or routing control parameter that can ensure that the data packet is forwarded towards the collector node and can render knowledge of the topology of the mesh network unnecessary for data forwarding purposes. In one or more embodiments of a hybrid device e.g. embodiment the forwarding eligibility criterion can be retained as part of routing criteria store also referred to herein as routing criteria within memory .

To drive delivery of data packet s towards the collector node prior to transmission of data packet an intermediate node or forwarder can update the data packet to substitute a received RLQM value with an RLQM value for broadcast message received from collector node that is generated by the intermediate. As indicated supra because strength or amplitude of an EM radiation wave decreases as such wave propagates in space hybrid devices that are farther apart from a collector node can exhibit lower RLQM values than hybrid devices that are closer to the collector node. Therefore the forwarding eligibility criterion can ensure that data packets or any other quanta of data are forwarded towards the collector node and not away from the collector node e.g. .

In response to reception of data packet hybrid device or any other hybrid device that embodies the collector node broadcasts an acknowledgement ACK signal or message through at least one of a radio interface or an optical interface. If hybrid device employs a radio interface the ACK signal or message can be delivered as part of signaling . Hybrid devices e.g. or that receive the ACK signal and have available e.g. queued for delivery the acknowledged data packet can discard an instance of the acknowledged data packet. In an aspect for source node s e.g. hybrid device the ACK signal serves as an end to end indication of data delivery. In an aspect the ACK signal can be embodied for example in one or more reserved bits in a packet header a light payload e.g. of the order of 1 byte data packet a predetermined multi bit word conveyed in a radio frame within a control channel or in band etc. In one or more embodiments of a hybrid device e.g. embodiment beacon component can generate and deliver at least in part via at least one of radio interface or optical interface the ACK signal.

Amongst the various features of the subject disclosure hybrid devices that are described herein can implement contention resolution protocol s to mitigate likelihood of data collision s of data packets or quanta of data. In scenarios that include high density mesh network s of hybrid devices wherein a plurality of two or more hybrid devices can satisfy forwarding eligibility disclosed herein and thus can deliver a data packet at the same or substantially the same time. In one or more embodiments hybrid device s can exploit the following example contention resolution protocol. After receiving a data packet and determining eligibility for transmission e.g. a forwarding criterion is fulfilled an intermediate node queues the data packet and halts telecommunication e.g. switches telecommunication to idle mode for a random time interval. In an aspect magnitude or span of the random time interval can be based at least in part on the difference amongst a current or nearly current RQLM value for the intermediate node and the RQLM value received within the data packet. For example the span of the random time interval can be inversely proportional to such difference wherein the larger the difference the shorter the intermediate node or forwarder halts or interrupts telecommunication. A probability distribution e.g. Poisson distribution exponential distribution for random time intervals can be retained for example in data storage the argument of the probability distribution can be the difference between two RLQM values. Such contention resolution protocol can provide an intermediate node or forwarding node that is closest to the collector node e.g. with the highest delivery priority because the RLQM value for such node can be the highest amongst all surrounding intermediate nodes or forwarder nodes therefore it has the largest difference amongst received RLQM value and generated RLQM value. After the intermediate node with highest delivery priority transmits the data packet other intermediate nodes that are currently in their halting or waiting interval detect transmission of the data packet that is queued with an embedded RLQM value that is higher than respective value s such intermediate node s generated. Accordingly in an aspect these intermediate nodes terminate respective halt cycles e.g. periods of idled telecommunication of the data packet and discard the data packet that is queued for delivery.

In one or more embodiments of a hybrid device e.g. embodiment contention resolution protocol s can be retained in memory as part of application storage the contention resolution protocol s can be stored as one or more sets of code instructions which can be executed by processor s in order to implement such contention resolution protocol s . Clock layer s can implement configure e.g. initiate reset advance . . . a timer associated with time interval in which telecommunication is halted as part of a contention resolution protocol timer value s or count s can be retained in data storage . Such timer is herein referred to as contention timer. Clock layer s can exploit one or more protocols or clock sources to configure the contention timer. Data queued as a result of implementation of a contention resolution protocol can be retained in data storage .

In one or more embodiments of hybrid devices in accordance with aspects described herein hybrid device includes a processor s configured to provide or that provides at least in part functionality to substantially any or any component interface layer s or other functional element s within the hybrid device . To provide at least such functionality processor s can execute code instructions retained in memory wherein the code instructions can be retained for example in application storage . In particular but not exclusively to provide at least a part of the functionality of the various functional elements of hybrid device processor s can implement one or more of the example methods described herein.

In hybrid device functional elements e.g. components interfaces layer s can be mutually and functionally connected via bus . Such functional elements are also connected to memory via bus . Processor s also can be functionally connected to components interfaces layer s or substantially any or any functional elements that are part of hybrid device . Bus enables data or information exchange amongst the functional elements that it operationally connects. Such data or exchange of information allows at least in part various of the functional aspects of hybrid device . In an aspect bus can be embodied in at least one of a memory bus a system bus an address bus a message bus or any other conduit protocol or mechanism for data or information exchange among components that execute a process or are part of execution of a process.

In particular processor s is operationally coupled through bus to radio telecommunication interface also referred to herein and in annexed drawings as optical interface and optical telecommunication interface also referred to herein and in annexed drawings as optical interface and can enable at least part of one or more operations on data e.g. packets symbols bits or chips that can enable telecommunication in accordance with a telecommunication protocol and associated protocol s . Processor s can afford at least part of multiplexing demultiplexing operation s modulation demodulation operation s coding decoding operation s or the like. Such operations can be include for example effecting direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times etc.

Moreover processor s is functionally connected through bus to memory in order to store and retrieve information such as code instructions data structures etc. necessary to operate and or provide functionality at least in part to communication platform messaging client functional platform technology selector multimode chipset s or other functional elements of device . In addition to illustrated memory elements memory also can store for example data structures code instructions and program modules or substantially any type of software applications or at least part of firmware application e.g. device logic telecommunication protocol s operating system or device information code sequence hypotheses and modulation and multiplexing hypotheses spreading and pilot codes and so on. Furthermore memory also can retain content s e.g. end user or application data data generated by other devices or the like security credentials e.g. passwords encryption keys digital certificates biometric reference indicators like voice recordings iris patterns fingerprints or the like.

In one or more alternative or additional embodiment s processor s can be distributed amongst one or more components of hybrid device . In further one or more alternative or additional embodiments one or more components of hybrid device can be implemented as software application s or firmware application s and can reside within memory as one or more sets of code instructions that when executed by processor s implement the one or more components and functionality thereof as described herein.

While not shown hybrid device can include a power supply e.g. a Li based battery which can be removable or fixed. The power supply not shown can be rechargeable and can be connected to auxiliary sources of power such as a photovoltaic panel.

In another aspect of the subject disclosure in one or more embodiments with higher complexity that described supra assessment component can include an intelligent component not shown that can establish autonomously the period t of delivery of broadcast message s . The intelligent component not shown also can autonomously adjust one or more routing criteria e.g. adjust the predetermined margin to which difference amongst RLQM values in an intermediate node are compared to.

Such intelligent component not shown can exploit artificial intelligence AI methods to infer e.g. reason and draw a conclusion based upon a set of metrics arguments or known outcomes in controlled scenarios period . In addition AI methods can be employed to optimize a utility trade off between the cost of delivering broadcast messages at a specific rate and the benefit there from related to accurate RLQM values that hybrid devices can produced with regularly updated broadcast messages.

Artificial intelligence techniques typically apply advanced mathematical algorithms e.g. decision trees neural networks regression analysis principal component analysis PCA for feature and pattern extraction cluster analysis genetic algorithm or reinforced learning to a data set. In particular analysis component or components therein can employ one of numerous methodologies for learning from data and then drawing inferences from the models so constructed. Such methodologies can be retained in memory . For example Hidden Markov Models HMMs and related prototypical dependency models can be employed. General probabilistic graphical models such as Dempster Shafer networks and Bayesian networks like those created by structure search using a Bayesian model score or approximation can also be utilized. In addition linear classifiers such as support vector machines SVMs non linear classifiers like methods referred to as neural network methodologies fuzzy logic methodologies can also be employed. Moreover game theoretic models e.g. game trees game matrices pure and mixed strategies utility algorithms Nash equilibria evolutionary game theory etc. and other approaches that perform data fusion etc. can be exploited.

In communication platform I coupled to receiver s transmitter s is a multiplexer demultiplexer component that enables manipulation in time and frequency domain of received signal s or signal s to be transmitted via radio telecommunication interface not shown in . Electronic mux demux component can multiplex information data traffic and control signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM code division multiplexing CDM space division multiplexing SDM . In addition based on telecommunication protocol employed for radio telecommunication mux demux component can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to substantially any code known in the art e.g. Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes and so on. A modulator demodulator mod demod component is also a part of communication platform I and can modulate information according to multiple modulation techniques such as frequency modulation amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation QAM with M a positive integer phase shift keying PSK and the like. Mod demod component also can demodulate information processed in accordance with the foregoing modulation techniques.

Communication platform II includes a multiplexer demultiplexer component that is functionally connected to receiver s transmitter s and enables manipulation in time and frequency domain of received signal s or signal s to be transmitted through optical telecommunication interface not shown in . Mod demod component is functionally connected to mux demux component and can modulate information according to multiple modulation techniques suitable for processing of wireless signal received or to be transmitted in accordance with optical telecommunication protocol s . For instance mod demod component can implement frequency modulation amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation QAM with M a positive integer phase shift keying PSK and the like. Mod demod component also can demodulate information processed in accordance with the foregoing modulation techniques.

Coder decoder component can process signal s that are received or to be transmitted in accordance with radio telecommunication protocol s . In an aspect decoding can be based at least in part on blind decoding of received signal s computation of log likelihood ratios LLR associated with constellation realization for a specific demodulation maximum likelihood ML estimation minimum mean square equalization MMSE zero forcing ZF filtering or maximal ratio combining MRC filtering. Likewise coder decoder component can process signal s that are received or to be transmitted in accordance with optical telecommunication protocol s . To at least that end coder decoder component can exploit substantially the same or the same coding decoding protocol s as those implemented by coder decoder component .

Functional elements e.g. component s coder decoder receiver s transmitter s are functionally connected via bus whereas functional elements e.g. component s coder decoder receiver s transmitter s in communication platform II are functionally connected through bus . Bus and bus enable exchange of data signaling or any other information amongst the functional elements connected through such buses.

In view of the example system s or device s described above example method s that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter can be better appreciated with reference to flowcharts in . For purposes of simplicity of explanation methods disclosed herein are presented and described as a series of acts however it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of acts as some acts may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example one or more methods disclosed herein could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover interaction diagram s or call flow s may represent one or more methods described herein in accordance with the disclosed subject matter when disparate entities enact disparate portions of the one or more methods. Furthermore not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a described method in accordance with the subject specification. Further yet two or more of the disclosed methods can be implemented in combination to accomplish one or more features or advantages described herein.

Methods disclosed throughout the subject specification and annexed drawings are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methods to computers for execution and thus implementation by a processor or for storage in a memory. In an aspect one or more processors such as processor s that enact the method s described herein can be employed to execute code instructions retained in a memory or any computer or machine readable medium to implement method s described herein the code instructions provide a computer or machine executable framework to enact the method s described herein.

At act a broadcast message is received via a first interface. As an example the first interface can be a radio interface e.g. radio interface . The radio interface e.g. radio interface can enable telecommunication via EM radiation with radio wavelength. In an aspect the broadcast message can be received periodically or at scheduled instants from a destination hybrid device e.g. or or destination node. At act a radio link quality metric RLQM value is generated based in part on the received broadcast message. Generating the first RLQM value includes recording such value e.g. in a memory functionally coupled to the hybrid device that implements the subject example method. As described supra the RLQM can include one or more metrics for signal strength such as radio signal strength RSS indicator s or received signal code power RSCP indicators in scenarios in which the broadcast message is delivered through a radio interface. In addition or in the alternative RLQM can include quality metrics such as signal to noise ratio SNR signal to noise and interference ratio SNIR or energy per chip over total received power E N .

At act it is probed if a data packet is available for transmission. If a data packet is available the hybrid device that implements the subject example method is characterized as a source node e.g. or . At act the data packet is formatted to include the RLQM value either as part of payload data or a packet header within the data packet. In an aspect router component can implement the subject act. At act the formatted data packet is delivered via a second interface such as optical interface which can enable telecommunication via EM radiation with wavelength s in the visible or infrared portion of the EM radiation spectrum.

In the example methods described herein the first interface and the second interface enable telecommunication through disparate technologies. In an aspect the first interface can have a greater telecommunication range than the second interface and thus is employed to receive broadcast message s whereas the second interface can allow higher data rate s than the first interface and thus it is employed for data transmission.

At act the first RLQM value is compared with a second RLQM value conveyed by the data packet the second RLQM value is extracted upon or after the data packet is received in act . At act it is determined if the difference between the first RLQM value and the second RLQM values is greater than a predetermined margin. In the negative case exception handling is implemented at act . Exception handling can include discarding the data packet from a data cache within a memory in the hybrid device that implements the subject example method. Conversely in the affirmative case the data packet is formatted at act to include the first RLQM value as part of the data packet such as payload data or control data e.g. within a packet header . The predetermined margin can be configured by a network administrator based at least on network density near the hybrid device that enacts the subject example method. In the alternative or in addition the predetermined margin can be determined autonomously by the hybrid device that enacts the subject method based at least in part on detected changes to network configuration e.g. updated to node neighbor lists variations in transported traffic or network load conditions such as traffic congestion. As described supra such difference serves as forwarding or routing control parameter that i can ensure that the data packet is forwarded towards the collector node and ii can render knowledge of the topology of the mesh network unnecessary for data forwarding purposes. At act the data packet is transmitted via the second interface such as optical interface .

It should be appreciated that in one or more additional or alternative example methods for forwarding data within a mesh network of hybrid devices act can be part of applying a forwarding rule within routing a set of routing criteria based at least on one or more radio link quality metrics while act can be part of assessing result s of applying the at least one rule according to the set of routing criteria.

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as store data store data storage database repository and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

Various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects disclosed in the subject specification can also be implemented through program modules stored in a memory and executed by a processor or other combination of hardware and software or hardware and firmware. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disc CD digital versatile disc DVD blu ray disc BD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the subject innovation. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the subject innovation but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

