---

title: Enabling conext aware ehancement for automatic electronic mail reply to mitigate risk
abstract: A current email addressed to an email address of a user account associated with a user can be received by an automated reply service with an automated reply enabled. The automated reply can include an automated reply notification. A current context of the current email can be compared to a previously established monitored reply history of the user to determine a normal reply to the email. A risk assessment can be applied to the default automated reply notification and the normal reply of the current email with weighting for current email aspects including urgency, recipients, sender, subject, and information in an automated reply notification. An action can be performed to the default automated reply notification based on the risk assessment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09467401&OS=09467401&RS=09467401
owner: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
number: 09467401
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160225
---
The present invention relates to the field of email security and more particularly to enabling context aware enhancement for automatic electronic mail reply to mitigate risk.

Out of office email reply messages in email applications allow the user to specify a message to be sent automatically in reply to incoming emails when the user is unable to reply. For example when a user is attending a conference in a different state than the office they work in they can enable an out of office reply to incoming emails they receive during their attendance. Typically the user specifies the dates of their absence contact information in case of emergency and co workers and report chain. The current systems rely on the user to set the recipient list correctly listing all those that may see this information and all those that may not. This provides an opportunity for error and sensitive information that should not be shared by others especially those that are not employees.

In particular out of office notification systems can be used by hackers interested in spearfishing since it allows them to gain access to relevant information regarding the organization as well as contextual information. For example an attacker can send an email a random employee s email e.g. obtained from a company website to trigger an out of office reply e.g. Joe is out on vacation and Sally is covering for him which can be used to garner sensitive information. This kind of information can be used for social engineering to gain unauthorized access to company data and or resources.

One aspect of the present invention can include a system a computer program product and a method for enabling context aware enhancement for automatic electronic mail reply to mitigate risk. A current email addressed to an email address of a user account associated with a user can be received by an automated reply service with an automated reply enabled. The automated reply can include an automated reply notification. A current context of the current email can be compared to a previously established monitored reply history of the user to determine a normal reply to the email. A risk assessment can be applied to the default automated reply notification and the normal reply of the current email with weighting for current email aspects including urgency recipients sender subject and information in an automated reply notification. An action can be performed to the default automated reply notification based on the risk assessment.

Another aspect of the present invention can include a system a computer program product and a method for enabling context aware enhancement for automatic electronic mail reply to mitigate risk. An engine for mitigating risk from an out of office reply by can modulate a default out of office setting associated with an email address of a user account associated with a user. The modulating can be performed utilizing a previously established historic behavioral context for the user based on a risk assessment of a received current email. A data store can persist at least one of the historic behavioral context and the current email triggering the out of office reply.

The present disclosure is a solution for enabling context aware enhancement for automatic electronic mail email reply to mitigate risk. In the solution a historic behavior context for a user email can be collected. For example metrics associated with email frequency reply delay can be collected to establish a natural user behavior e.g. baseline . When the user email account is configured to automatic reply e.g. out of office reply and an email is received the solution can determine when an automatic reply e.g. out of office reply can be sent. In one embodiment the email can be analyzed to determine a risk score with generating an automatic reply to the email. In the embodiment when the risk score is evaluated against a previously established risk threshold the outcome of the evaluation can determine a programmatic action that can be performed. In one instance if the automatic reply generated from a historic context is useful to the sender e.g. risk score is less than a risk threshold the reply can be delivered. In another instance if the automatic reply is likely unnecessary e.g. risk score is greater than a risk threshold the reply can be suppressed or delayed. For example if an email was sent to a large distribution list and the recipient was cc ed on the email the out of office OOO reply would be of little or no value to the sender and the OOO reply can be suppressed.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions.

These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

As used herein an automatic reply can be a programmatically generated text exchange message responsive to an email receipt. It should be appreciated that automatic reply can include but is not limited to an out of office automated email an automatic reply notification and the like. Automatic reply can be enabled and or disabled for an email account a set of email accounts and the like. In one instance automatic reply can be an email message associated with an email address of a user account within a computing system. In one embodiment automatic reply can be associated with settings user preferences historic behavioral context a behavior baseline and the like.

As used herein email can be a text exchange message conveyed from a sender to a recipient. Email can include but is not limited to a header a subject a message body a signature a metadata a timestamp a message identifier and the like. In one instance email can include but is not limited to a blind carbon copy address a carbon copy address and the like. It can be appreciated that email can include file attachments.

Historic correspondence can be one or more text exchange messages conveyed from the recipient to a sender. Correspondence can include but is not limited to a header a subject a message body a signature a metadata a timestamp a message identifier and the like. In one instance correspondence can include but is not limited to a blind carbon copy address a carbon copy address and the like. It can be appreciated that correspondence can include file attachments.

In method an email conveyed from a sender to a recipient can be analyzed to determine an appropriate automatic reply. In one instance the automatic reply can be appropriately sent and or constructed based on a previously established recipient behavior baseline. In one instance a previously established recipient behavior baseline can be a portion of a monitored context. In the instance the monitored context can include but is not limited to behavior metrics usage patterns and the like. Usage patterns and or behavior metrics can include but is not limited to subject word selection message body length language usage and the like. For example the behavior metrics such as time to respond to an email and subject length can be collected from recipient emails over a period of weeks and a baseline for the recipient can be established. It should be appreciated that context can include metrics specific to a sender a group of senders e.g. distribution list and the like.

In step an email to a recipient can be received from a sender. In step a recipient can have an automatic reply e.g. out of office set for their email account. It should be appreciated that automatic reply can be manually and or automatically set. In one embodiment automatic reply can be set via an email client utilized by the recipient. For example an out of office assistant can be enabled within Microsoft Outlook to allow automated replies to the recipient s email address while the recipient is absent from their office. In step historically collected behavioral context can be selected for the recipient. In one instance behavioral context can be obtained from email client settings email client interactions email server message analysis and the like. For example historical behavioral context for a sender the recipient frequently communicates with can be captured from email client server communication which can indicate the recipient always replies within an hour of receiving an email from the sender. In step the email can be analyzed to determine automated reply risk using behavioral context. For example based on historic email conversations a context for the email and or an email conversation can be determined and a risk assessment for replying to the email can be established. In one instance a risk score can be established utilizing historic behavior current context for the email and the like. In the instance one or more weighting factors can be applied to email attributes including but not limited to reply to sender frequency reply length subject heading and the like. In one embodiment email attributes can be evaluated e.g. based on weighting factor by a traditional and or proprietary risk assessment algorithm to determine a risk score associated with the email. For example a composite risk index can be computed for an email to determine a risk score and can be evaluated against a corporate wide risk threshold. It should be appreciated that risk score can be a numeric value an alphanumeric value and the like.

In step if the risk score is greater than a previously established risk threshold the method can continue to step else continue to step . In step an automated reply can be delayed or suppressed based on the risk score. In step an automated reply can be conveyed to the sender. In one instance the automated reply can conform to a previously established user setting e.g. user established default out of office reply . In another instance the automated reply can be modified to mitigate risk associated with disclosing sensitive information within the reply. For example the name of a superior can be redacted from the reply to ensure social engineering attempts can be hindered. In step if more emails are received the method can return to step else continue to step . In step the method can end.

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. It should be appreciated that method can be performed in serial and or in parallel. It should be understood that method can performed in real time or near real time.

In system a risk mitigation engine executing within an email server can reduce automated reply social engineering attacks by intelligently responding to an email based on historic user behavior. Server device and or system components can be communicatively linked via one or more networks . In the system an email can be received by server . When an automated reply setting

Email server can be a hardware software entity for executing risk mitigation engine . Server can include but is not limited to engine monitored context historic correspondence data store and the like. Server functionality can include but is not limited to encryption load balancing store and forward messaging and the like. In one instance email server can be component of a distributed computing network a networked computing system and the like.

Risk mitigation engine can be a hardware software element for reducing sensitive data exposure to unauthorized entities. Engine can include but is not limited to context collector reply handler email analyzer settings and the like. Engine functionality can include but is not limited to automatic reply settings parsing address book parsing and the like. It should be appreciated that engine can utilize traditional and or proprietary mechanisms to perform the functionality disclosed herein including but not limited to keyword tagging metadata analysis pattern recognition and the like. In one embodiment engine can be a functionality of an IBM Verse mail server IBM Notes server a Postfix mail server a Qmail mail server a Microsoft Exchange Mail server and the like.

Context collector can be a hardware software entity for collecting historic behavior metrics and or analyzing historic behavior metrics. Collector functionality can include but is not limited to user account selection baseline generation and the like. In one instance collector can be an Asynchronous JavaScript and Extensible Markup Language AJAX functionality. In the instance collector can garner metrics from user behavior and user usage patterns during email composition during email submission during email delivery and the like. In one embodiment collector can be a functionality of a mail delivery module of an email server. In one instance collector can analyze a mailbox database associated with a user identity e.g. email address . It should be appreciated that collector can analyze incoming mail outgoing mail and the like.

Reply handler can be a hardware software element for generating an appropriate automated reply. Handler functionality can include but is not limited to reply generation reply delay reply suppression and the like. In one instance handler can be utilized to redact one or more portions of an automated reply . In the instance common keywords associated with risk scores greater than threshold can be removed from reply prior to submission. It should be appreciated that utilizing natural language processing the reply can be redacted while still maintaining readability and semantic context.

Email analyzer can be a hardware software entity for analyzing email and or email aspects Analyzer functionality can include but is not limited to email analysis email metadata analysis and the like. In one instance analyzer can utilize traditional and or proprietary algorithms to evaluate email . Algorithms can include but is not limited to natural language processing algorithms Bayesian filter algorithms and the like. It should be appreciated that email analyzer can analyze incoming mail outgoing mail and the like. In one instance analyzer can evaluate multiple emails for similar patterns in subject message body sender and the like. In the instance the analyzer can identify spearfishing attempts spoofing attempts phishing attempts and the like.

Settings can be one or more rulesets for establishing the behavior of server engine and or system . Settings can include but is not limited to context collector options reply handler settings email analyzer parameters and the like. In one instance settings can include security policies options natural language processing parameters and the like. In one embodiment setting can be manually and or automatically determined from historic settings users preferences system settings and the like. In one instance setting can be configured via an interface communicatively linked to engine .

User account can be a data set associated with a user identity of a user within a computing system. Account can include but is not limited to monitored context historic correspondence automated reply and the like. In one instance account can be associated with an email address associated with a user identity user preferences a mailbox e.g. mailbox file an addressbook and the like. In one embodiment mailbox can conform to a UNIX mbox database e.g. maildir a Microsoft Outlook post office file e.g. .pst .ost an IBM Verse mail database and the like.

Monitored context can be a dataset for enabling risk mitigated automated reply. Context can conform but is not limited an Extensible Markup Langauge XML format a binary format and the like. In one embodiment context can include a behavior baseline which can be a set of attributes and or properties associated with an email authoring behavior of a user. Baseline can include but is not limited to word selection metrics word count metrics character count metrics and the like. In one embodiment context can include one or more criteria e.g. urgency recipient subject weighting values e.g. 0.5 0.9 and the like. That is baseline can be generated from metrics associated with correspondence aspects such as subject recipient urgency and the like. It should be appreciated that criteria and weighting values can be arbitrarily defined. It should be appreciated that context can include multiple baselines for a user multiple baselines for multiple users and the like. In one instance context can include a threshold which can be manually and or automatically established. In the instance threshold can conform to a numeric value an alphanumeric value and the like.

Historic correspondence can be one or more data sets associated with an email address of a user identity. Correspondence can conform to Hypertext Markup Language Extensible Markup Language and the like. In one instance correspondence can include email data which can include file attachments MIME type data and the like.

Automated reply can be an email response associated with an email address. Reply can include a subject a message body a metadata a file attachment a signature and the like. In one instance automated reply can include automated reply setting . In the instance reply setting can include but is not limited to a duration a sender address a recipient address and the like.

Data store can be a hardware software component able to persist user account automated reply setting reply ruleset and the like. Data store can be a Storage Area Network SAN Network Attached Storage NAS and the like. Data store can conform to a relational database management system RDBMS object oriented database management system OODBMS and the like. Data store can be communicatively linked to server in one or more traditional and or proprietary mechanisms. In one instance data store can be a component of Structured Query Language SQL complaint database.

Reply ruleset can be a data set for configuring the behavior of engine and or components . Ruleset can include but is not limited to a context identifier a threshold value a rule identifier and the like. In one instance ruleset can be utilized to evaluate a current context of an email . For example entry can permit a received email e.g. from an unknown sender which can have a low risk threshold e.g. 10 to be evaluated against the email risk score when the risk score exceeds 10 an automated reply can be suppressed e.g. Rule C . It should be appreciated that ruleset can be manually and or automatically established. In one instance ruleset can be presented within interface and or an interface communicatively linked with engine .

Computing device can be a hardware software permitting the execution of an email client to present email and or automated reply . Device can include but is not limited to input output components interface and the like. Computing device can include but is not limited to a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computing device a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile phone and the like.

Interface can be a user interactive component permitting interaction and or presentation of email automatic reply and the like. Interface can be present within the context of a Web browser application a desktop email client application e.g. client a mobile email client application and the like. In one embodiment interface can be a screen of an IBM Verse Web based email client application. Interface capabilities can include a graphical user interface GUI voice user interface VUI mixed mode interface and the like. In one instance interface can be communicatively linked to computing device.

Network can be an electrical and or computer network connecting one or more system components. Network can include but is not limited to twisted pair cabling optical fiber coaxial cable and the like. Network can include any combination of wired and or wireless components. Network topologies can include but is not limited to bus star mesh and the like. Network types can include but is not limited to Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN Virtual Private Network VPN and the like.

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. It should be appreciated that one or more components within system can be optional components permitting that the disclosure functionality be retained. It should be understood that engine components can be optional components providing that engine functionality is maintained. It should be appreciated that one or more components of engine can be combined and or separated based on functionality usage and the like. System can conform to a Service Oriented Architecture SOA Representational State Transfer REST architecture and the like.

It should be appreciated that the disclosure can utilize traditional and or proprietary protocols including but not limited to Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP and the like.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

