---

title: Suppressing duplicate listings on multiple search engine web sites from a single source system given that a publisher selects a different listing as a synchronized listing
abstract: A source system receives initial identification data of a listing related to an entity. The source system searches a provider system for one or more listings having identification data matching the initial identification data. The source system receives, from the provider system, a plurality of potential matching listings having identification data matching the initial identification data, wherein each listing of the plurality of potential matching listings has a corresponding confidence score assigned by the source system, and wherein each listing of the plurality of potential matching listings has a corresponding provider-supplied external identifier assigned by the provider system. The source system designates a representative listing of the entity located on a provider system from among the plurality of potential matching listings, the representative listing having the highest confidence score assigned by the source system. The source system transmits, to the provider system, a request to synchronize the representative listing having the highest confidence score assigned by the source system as the representative listing of the entity on the provider system, the request comprising a first provider-supplied external identifier. The source system receives, from the provider system, an indication that a second listing of the plurality of potential matching listings has been selected by the provider system as the representative listing of the entity on the provider system, the response comprising a second provider-supplied external identifier. The source system re-designates the second listing as the representative listing of the entity on the provider system and designating the remaining one or more remaining listing of the plurality of potential matching listings as one or more duplicate listings on the provider system. The source system transmits, to the provider system, a request to suppress the remaining one or more listings as one or more duplicate listings, the request to suppress the remaining one or more listings comprising one or more third provider-supplied external identifiers, the one or more third provider-supplied external identifiers indicating the remaining one or more listings to suppress.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09519721&OS=09519721&RS=09519721
owner: Yext, Inc.
number: 09519721
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160329
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 793 904 filed Jul. 8 2015 which is a continuation of and claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 793 263 filed Jul. 7 2015 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates generally to Internet search methods and more particularly to a method and system for selecting a single accurate listing and suppressing other duplicate listings on one or more listing provider systems from a single source system given that a publisher selects a different listing as a synchronized listing.

A consumer and or merchant may rely heavily on services rendered via the Internet. One such service is searchable listings provided by a search service hereinafter a search provider system provider system provider site or simply a provider . Examples of providers include yellow pages or Internet yellow pages e.g. Google.com Amazon.com Yahoo.com Yelp.com MapQuest.com Superpages.com etc. Searchable listings may be provided for an entity e.g. an advertiser a business an organization a government agency etc. e.g. users of a provider system . Listings may include businesses such as restaurants people information product information etc. The information provided may include for example a name of a person or business addresses telephone numbers web site URLs photos videos e mail addresses etc. A consumer may be presented with other information about a business by either clicking anywhere in the listing or placing a mouse pointer or finger over a portion of the listing.

Certain search service providers such as Google.com WhitePages.com MapQuest.com provide some or all of the requested information in alphabetical most visited or distance order e.g. distance from a location that the consumer entered for a search or a distance from a location of the search provider . A merchant may wish to ensure that information provided in the search results is correct so that a consumer may find a listing when searching in her local area and if the consumer does choose to call or visit a business the consumer is provided with correct information. Furthermore a merchant may desire to maximize the chance that a consumer will select a listing of the merchant from among those returned. The listing may be displayed higher in the search results and or be featured in a more prominent and attractive fashion. The ordering of the listings is sometimes influenced by the extent to which content is available for the listing. Further still the merchant may desire to maximize the probability that a consumer that views additional information about a business will have a favorable impression of the business.

The above goals may be achieved by maximizing the presence and quality of content associated with a listing. The merchant associated with a listing may desire to be listed with multiple search services. Unfortunately there is no one central database that contains listings of locations of all businesses from which providers may source their listings. Frequently a business location of a merchant may be represented multiple times on a provider site i.e. duplicate listings . shows one example of a screen shot illustrating duplicate listings for a location of a business. Consumers are increasingly relying on mobile applications more personalized recommendation sites e.g. Yelp Foursquare Facebook etc. or more vertical specific sites e.g. TripAdvisor OpenTable etc. to discover locations of businesses. If the consumer encounters duplicate listings with incorrect data the consumer may become confused and frustrated. The consumer may choose to ignore the listings in their entirety leading to lost business for merchants who have duplicate listings.

A search service provider may combine local business listings from a variety of data sources e.g. yellow pages publishers and data aggregators . If a business location is not consistently represented across the data sources or is represented multiple times then the location of the business may not rank highly in search page results for certain search terms input by a consumer. As a way to obtain revenue many search provider web sites permit a merchant to respond to consumer reviews with respect to business listings of the merchant. If a business location associated with a merchant is represented multiple times on a provider site then it may become difficult for the merchant to respond to consumer reviews across multiple listings of one location of a business of the merchant.

Duplicate listings for one location of a business may be created in many ways. Duplicate listings may be created by merchants by consumers by sources that providers use to build their location databases by the providers themselves and or by common crawling practices that providers may employ to build their location databases.

Duplicate listings may be created by employees of a business when multiple employees of the business independently create a listing for the same location of the business on a provider web site. This may happen when the business does not have a cohesive location strategy as may occur in a large company with many locations.

Consumers may create duplicate listings when a provider crowd sources their location database. On such provider web sites e.g. Facebook Foursquare Yelp etc. consumers are able to create new representations of physical locations. For example a consumer can create a new listing prior to viewing it on Foursquare Yelp or Facebook. For several reasons multiple consumers may create duplicate listings for the same location on the provider web site.

Search providers often obtain location information for business listings from business listing aggregators which are companies that gather information from a variety of sources to determine a name address phone number s etc. of a business. Business listing aggregators may license the obtained business listing information to other search providers. Unfortunately business listing aggregators are often not accurate with respect to matching records from various sources and during the matching process more duplicates may be created and thus causing duplicates downstream at the provider level .

At the provider level providers typically combine various sources from merchants consumers and aggregators into one consolidated location database. Unfortunately providers may not have accurate matching and data cleanup processes leading to the creation of duplicate listings.

Frequently aggregators and providers crawl the Web to obtain location information. However due to the imperfect information on the Web an aggregator and a provider may cross contaminate each other s location databases. For example an aggregator may inadvertently transmit duplicate listings to a provider and subsequently the aggregator fixes the duplicate problem. However because both the aggregator and the provider rely on web crawling as a source of information and the provider may have obtained duplicate information by web crawling the web site of the aggregator before the aggregator has removed the duplicate information duplicate listings may re occur on the web sites of both the aggregator and the provider. The cycle continues 

As used herein the term listing identification data may refer to one or more of the following three types of content employed by examples of the present disclosure to identify or define a location of an entity e.g. a business organization government agency etc. a basic content e.g. a name street address and telephone number associated with the location of the entity e.g. a business organization government agency etc. b enhanced static content e.g. content that does not change frequently and is often cached e.g. a web site universal resource locator URL a business description business hours e mail addresses photos videos etc. and 3 enhanced real time content e.g. content that changes frequently and needs to be served to a user in real time e.g. structured lists and featured messages etc. . Enhanced real time content may also include a structured list . A structured list refers to a type of enhanced content e.g. lists of formatted real world information that follows a distinct easily recognizable pattern. Examples of structured listings may include but are not limited to restaurant menu lists biographies of employees bios lists of products and services lists of events etc. In an example a listing may include at least basic content and enhanced static content and or enhanced real time content together an enhanced listing .

The above described problems are addressed and a technical solution is achieved in the art by providing a method and system for suppressing a duplicate listing given a known representative synchronized listing on a provider system from a source system. The source system may select a representative listing of an entity e.g. a business an organization a government agency etc. located on a provider system. The representative listing may comprise first identification data and a first provider supplied external identifier. Accordingly the source system may search the provider system for additional listings having identification data matching the first identification data. The source system may receive from the provider system a potential matching listing having identification data matching the first identification data and having a second provider supplied external identifier that differs from the first provider supplied external identifier. The source system may designate the potential matching listing as a duplicate listing. The source system may transmit a request to the provider system to suppress the designated duplicate listing on the provider system. The request may comprise the second provider supplied external identifier.

In an example responsive to the source system receiving an acknowledgement from the provider system that the provider system has accepted the request to suppress the designated duplicate listing in view of the second provider supplied external identifier the source system may receive from the provider system a confirmation that the provider system has suppressed the designated duplicate listing.

In an example in response to the source system receiving from the provider system the confirmation that the provider system has suppressed the designated duplicate listing the source system may verify that the designated duplicate listing has been suppressed on the provider system. In one example verifying that the designated duplicate listing has been suppressed on the provider system may comprise the source system visiting the address provided by a universal resource locator URL associated with the designated duplicate listing on the provider system. In another example verifying that the designated duplicate listing has been suppressed on the provider system may comprise the source system employing an application programming interface API to search the provider system for the designated duplicate listing.

In an example the source system may receive from the provider system an indication from the provider system that the designated duplicate listing no longer exists on the provider system. In one example the indication may be a listing not found response. In another example the source system may receive from the provider system a universal resource locator redirected response comprising a universal resource locator associated with representative listing. In another example the indication may comprise the source system receiving from the provider system a list of entries. The provider system may determine that the list of entries does not contain the designated duplicate listing.

In an example the source system may receive from the provider system a receipt file as a confirmation that the provider system has suppressed the designated duplicate listing. The receipt file may comprise a record corresponding to the designated duplicate listing the record comprising the second provider supplied external identifier a universal resource locator associated with the designated duplicate listing and an indication that the designated duplicate listing is not in service on the provider system.

The above described problems are addressed and a technical solution is achieved in the art by providing a method and system for suppressing a duplicate listing by first determining a representative synchronized listing on a provider system from a source system and then designating any other corresponding listings for a location as duplicate listings. The source system may receive from a user associated with an entity initial identification data of a listing related to the entity e.g. a business an organization a government agency etc. . The source system may search a provider system for one or more listings having identification data matching the initial identification data. The source system may receive from the provider system a plurality of potential matching listings having identification data matching the initial identification data. Each listing of the plurality of potential matching listings may have a corresponding confidence score assigned by the source system. Each listing of the plurality of potential matching listings may have a corresponding provider supplied external identifier assigned by the provider system. The source system may designate a representative listing of the entity located on a provider system from among the plurality of potential matching listings. The representative listing may be the listing having the highest confidence score assigned by the source system. The source system may designate the remaining one or more potential matching listings of the plurality of potential matching listings as one or more duplicate listings. The source system may transmit to the provider system a request to synchronize the representative listing having the highest confidence score assigned by the source system as the representative listing of the entity on the provider system. The request may comprise a first provider supplied external identifier.

Responsive to the source system receiving a confirmation from the provider system that the provider system has synchronized the representative listing having the highest confidence score assigned by the source system as the representative listing of the entity on the provider system the response comprising the first provider supplied external identifier the source system may transmit to the provider system a request to suppress the remaining one or more potential matching listings as one or more duplicate listings. The request to suppress the remaining one or more potential matching listings may comprise the remaining one or more provider supplied external identifiers.

In one example before transmitting the request to suppress the remaining one or more potential matching listings the source system may verify that a plurality of fields associated with the confirmed representative listing are correct.

In an example before the request to suppress the remaining one or more potential matching listings the source system may update in the database associated with the source system a record associated with the listing having the highest confidence score with an indication that the listing having the highest confidence score is the representative listing of the entity located on a provider system. The indication may comprise the first provider supplied external identifier.

In an example the request to synchronize the representative listing having the highest confidence score may be transmitted by the source system to the provider system using an application programming interface. An acknowledgement to accept the request to synchronize the representative listing having the highest confidence score may be received by the source system from the provider system using an application programming interface. The confirmation that the provider system has synchronized the representative listing may be received by the source system from the provider system using the application programming interface.

In an example the request to synchronize the representative listing having the highest confidence score may be transmitted by the source system to the provider system using a first feed. An acknowledgement to accept the request to synchronize the representative listing having the highest confidence score may be received by the source system from the provider system using the first feed. The confirmation that the provider system has synchronized the representative listing may be received by the source system from the provider system using a second feed.

In an example responsive to the source system receiving an acknowledgement from the provider system that the provider system has accepted the request to suppress the remaining one or more potential matching listings as one or more duplicate listings the source system may receive from the provider system at least one confirmation that the provider system has suppressed the remaining one or more potential matching listings as one or more duplicate listings. The at least one confirmation may comprise the corresponding remaining one or more provider supplied external identifiers.

In one example responsive to the source system receiving from the provider the at least one confirmation that the provider system has suppressed the remaining one or more potential matching listings as one or more designated duplicate listings the source system may verify on the provider system that the one or more designated duplicate listings have been suppressed on the provider system. In one example the source system verifying that the remaining one or more potential matching listings have been suppressed on the provider system may comprise after transmitting the request to suppress the remaining one or more potential matching listings transmitting to the provider system the corresponding remaining one or more provider supplied external identifiers.

In one example verifying may comprise visiting by the source system on the provider system the corresponding one or more universal resource locators URL associated with the one or more designated duplicate listings. In one example verifying may comprise the source system employing an application programming interface API to search the provider system for the one or more designated duplicate listings.

In one example verifying may comprise the source system receiving one or more corresponding indications from the provider system that the one or more designated duplicate listings no longer exist on the provider system. The one or more corresponding indications may be one or more listing not found responses. In an example verifying may comprise the source system receiving from the provider system one or more corresponding universal resource locator redirected responses comprising one or more universal resource locators associated with representative listing. In one example verifying may comprise the source system receiving from the provider system a list of entries corresponding to a search results page. The source system may determine that the list of entries does not contain the one or more remaining listings.

In one example the source system may assign a confidence score to a potential matching listing. The confidence score may be based the one or more fields of the identification data associated with the potential matching listing. In one example responsive to the source system assigning the confidence score to the potential matching listing equal to or above a first threshold value the source system may mark the potential matching listing as a confirmed matching listing. The source system may perform the designation of the potential matching listing as the duplicate listing. In one example responsive to the source system assigning the confidence score to the potential matching listing lower than a second threshold value below the threshold first value the source system may discard for further consideration the potential matching listing as non matching listing. In one example responsive to the source system assigning the confidence score to the potential matching listing equal to or above a second threshold value below the first threshold value the source system may mark the potential matching listing as a probable matching listing.

In one example responsive to the source system designating the potential matching listing as probable matching listing the source system may present the probable matching listing to at least one of a user associated with the entity e.g. the merchant or a human operator associated with the source system. The source system may receive from the at least one of the user associated with the entity e.g. the merchant or the human operator associated with the source system a designation of the probable matching listing as a non matching listing. The source system may mark in the database associated with the source system a record associated with the potential matching listing with an indication that the potential matching listing is a non matching listing. The source system may be operable to remove the non matching listing from future consideration in searches for duplicate listings.

In one example the source system may receive from at least one of the user associated with the entity e.g. the merchant or the human operator associated with the source system a designation of the probable matching listing as a confirmed matching listing. The source system may mark in the database associated with the source system the record associated with the potential matching listing with an indication that the potential matching listing is a confirmed matching listing. The source system may perform the designation of the potential matching listing as the duplicate listing.

The above described problems are addressed and a technical solution is achieved in the art by providing a method and system for suppressing a duplicate listing by first determining a representative synchronized listing on a provider system and designating any other corresponding listings for a location as duplicate listings but the provider system selects a different listing as the synchronized listing rather than the one selected by the source system. The source system may receive initial identification data of a listing related to an entity. The source system may search a provider system for one or more listings having identification data matching the initial identification data. The source system may receive from the provider system a plurality of potential matching listings having identification data matching the initial identification data. Each listing of the plurality of potential matching listings may have a corresponding confidence score assigned by the source system. Each listing of the plurality of potential matching listings may have a corresponding provider supplied external identifier assigned by the provider system. The source system may designate a representative listing of the entity located on a provider system from among the plurality of potential matching listings. The representative listing may be the listing having the highest confidence score assigned by the source system. The source system may transmit to the provider system a request to synchronize the representative listing having the highest confidence score assigned by the source system as the representative listing of the entity on the provider system. The request may comprise a first provider supplied external identifier. The source system may receive from the provider system an indication that a second listing of the plurality of potential matching listings has been selected by the provider system as the representative listing of the entity on the provider system. The response may comprise a second provider supplied external identifier. The source system may re designate the second listing as the representative listing of the entity on the provider system and may designate the remaining one or more remaining listing of the plurality of potential matching listings as one or more duplicate listings on the provider system. The source system may transmit to the provider system a request to suppress the remaining one or more listings as one or more duplicate listings. The request to suppress the remaining one or more listings may comprise one or more third provider supplied external identifiers.

In an example responsive to the source system receiving an acknowledgement from the provider system that the provider system has accepted the request to suppress the one or more remaining listings as one or more duplicate listings the source system may receive from the provider system at least one confirmation that the provider has suppressed the one or more remaining listings as one or more duplicate listings the at least one confirmation comprising the corresponding remaining one or more third provider supplied external identifiers.

In an example responsive to the source system receiving from the provider system the at least one confirmation that the provider system has suppressed the remaining one or more potential matching listings as one or more designated duplicate listings the source system may verify on the provider system that the one or more designated duplicate listings have been suppressed on the provider system. In an example responsive to the source system receiving from the provider system the confirmation that the provider system has suppressed the one or more remaining listings as one or more duplicate listings the source system may verify on the provider system that the one or more remaining listings as one or more duplicate listings have been suppressed on the provider system.

In one example verifying that the one or more remaining listings as one or more duplicate listings have been suppressed on the provider system may comprise after the source system transmits the request to suppress the one or more remaining listings as one or more duplicate listings the source system may transmit to the provider system the corresponding one or more third provider supplied external identifiers.

In one example verifying that the one or more remaining listings as one or more duplicate listings have been suppressed on the provider system may comprise visiting by the source system on the provider system the corresponding one or more universal resource locators URL associated with the one or more remaining listings. In one example verifying may comprise the source system receiving one or more corresponding indications from the provider system that the one or more remaining listings no longer exist on the provider system.

In one example the one or more corresponding indications may be one or more listing not found responses.

In one example verifying may comprise receiving by the source system from the provider system one or more corresponding universal resource locator redirected responses comprising one or more universal resource locators associated with the representative listing. In one example verifying may comprise receiving by the source system from the provider system a list of entries corresponding to a search results page. The source system may determine that the list of entries does not contain the one or more remaining listings.

The above described problems are addressed and a technical solution is achieved in the art by providing a method and system for suppressing a duplicate listing in response to a human triggering a suppression of a list of no longer valid listings on a plurality of provider systems. The source system may receive from at least one of the users associated with an entity e.g. the merchant or the human operator associated with the source system an indication to suppress all listings associated with the entity on one or more provider systems. The indication may comprise identification data of the entity and an indication that the identification data of the entity is no longer valid. The source system may retrieve from a database associated with the source system a list of one or more provider systems associated with the source system and having at least one listing corresponding to the entity.

For each provider system in the list of one or more provider systems the source system may search the provider system for listings having identification data matching the identification data of the entity. The source system may receive from the provider system one or more matching listings having identification data matching the identification data of the entity. Each listing of the one or more matching listings may have a corresponding provider supplied external identifier assigned by the provider system. The source system may transmit to the provider system a request to suppress the one or more matching listings on the provider system. The request to suppress the one or more matching listings may comprise a list of the one or more corresponding provider supplied external identifiers.

In an example responsive to the source system receiving an acknowledgement from the provider system that the provider system has accepted the request to suppress the one or more matching listings in view of the one or more corresponding provider supplied external identifiers the source system may receive from the provider system a confirmation that the provider system has suppressed the one or more matching listings.

In an example responsive to the source system receiving from the provider the confirmation that the provider system has suppressed the remaining one or more potential matching listings as one or more designated duplicate listings the source system may verify on the provider system that the one or more designated duplicate listings have been suppressed on the provider system. In an example verifying that the one or more designated duplicate listings have been suppressed on the provider system may comprise after the source system transmits the request to the provider system to suppress the one or more matching listings the source system may transmit to the provider system the list of the one or more corresponding provider supplied external identifiers. In one example verifying that the one or more designated duplicate listings have been suppressed on the provider system may comprise the source system visiting on the provider system the one or more universal resource locators URL associated with the one or more matching listings. In one example verifying that the one or more designated duplicate listings have been suppressed on the provider system may comprise employing by the source system an application programming interface API to search the provider system for the one or more matching listings. In an example verifying that the one or more designated duplicate listings have been suppressed on the provider system may comprise the source system receiving an indication from the provider system that the one or more matching listings no longer exist on the provider system.

In an example the indication may be one or more listing not found responses. In one example verifying that the one or more designated duplicate listings have been suppressed on the provider system may comprise the source system receiving from the provider system a search results page. The source system may determine that the search results page does not contain the one or more matching listings.

In an example the source system receiving a confirmation that the provider system has suppressed the one or more matching listings may comprise receiving a receipt file. The receipt file comprises one or more records corresponding to the one or more matching listings. Each record of the one or more records may comprise a provider supplied external identifier associated a corresponding matching listing a universal resource locator associated with the corresponding matching listing and an indication that the corresponding matching listing is not in service on the provider system.

In one example the source system may receive from the at least one of the users associated with an entity e.g. the merchant or the human operator associated with the source system identification data of a replacement entity for delivery of an enhanced listing to a plurality of provider systems. For each provider system of the plurality of provider systems the source system may transmit to the provider system identification data of the replacement entity and the enhanced listing to the provider system without a provider supplied external identifier as an indication to the provider system to create a listing using the enhanced content.

The above described problems are addressed and a technical solution is achieved in the art by providing a method and system for suppressing a duplicate listing on a plurality of provider systems. The source system may receive from a user associated with an entity e.g. a merchant an indication that a listing related to an entity is a duplicate listing of the entity on a provider system. The source system may search the provider system for the listing the listing having identification data. The source system may receive from the provider system the listing having the identification data. The listing may not be marked by the source system as a representative listing of the entity located on a provider system nor be marked by the source system as a duplicate listing of the representative listing for other entities. The source system may designate the listing as a probable matching listing of the entity on the provider system. The source system may transmit to a human operator associated with the source system the probable matching listing for review.

In one example the human operator may employ the source system to search the provider system for the probable matching listing. The human operator associated with the source system may receive an indication that the probable matching listing does not exist on the provider system. The source system may receive from the human operator associated with the source system an indication of a rejection of the probable matching listing as the listing of the entity on the provider system. The source system may transmit to the user associated with an entity e.g. the merchant the indication of the rejection.

In one example the human operator associated with the source system may search the database associated with the provider system for the probable matching listing. The human operator associated with the source system may receive from the source system an indication that the probable matching listing exists on the provider system. The probable matching listing may be marked on the provider system as a representative listing or a duplicate listing associated with another entity on the provider system. The source system may receive from the human operator associated with the source system an indication of a rejection of the probable matching listing as the listing of the entity on a provider system. The source system may transmit to the user associated with an entity e.g. the merchant the indication of the rejection.

In one example the human operator associated with the source system may search the provider system for the probable matching listing. The human operator associated with the source system may receive from the source system an indication that the probable matching listing exists on the provider system. The probable matching listing may be neither marked on the provider system as a representative listing nor be marked as duplicate listing associated with another entity on the provider system. The source system may receive from the human operator associated with the source system an indication of a rejection of the probable matching listing as the listing of the entity on a provider system. The source system may transmit to the user associated with an entity e.g. the merchant the indication of the rejection.

The above described problems are addressed and a technical solution is achieved in the art by providing a method and system for suppressing a duplicate listing on a plurality of provider systems. The source system may receive from a user associated with an entity e.g. the merchant a listing no longer associated with an entity on a provider system. The source system may search the provider system for the listing the listing having identification data. The source system may receive from the provider system the listing having the identification data. The listing may not be marked by the source system as a representative listing of the entity located on a provider system nor marked by the source system as a duplicate listing of the representative listing for other entities. The source system may designate the listing as a probable matching listing of the entity on the provider system. The source system may transmit to a human operator associated with the source system the probable matching listing for review.

In one example the human operator associated with the source system may employ the source system to search the provider system for the probable matching listing. The human operator associated with the source system may receive an indication that the probable matching listing does not exist on the provider system. The source system may receive from the human operator associated with the source system an indication of a rejection of the probable matching listing as the listing of the entity on the provider system. The source system may transmit to the user associated with an entity e.g. the merchant the indication of the rejection.

In one example the human operator associated with the source system may employ the source system to search the provider system for the probable matching listing. The human operator associated with the source system may receive an indication that the probable matching listing exists on the provider system. The probable matching listing may be marked on the provider system as a representative listing or a duplicate listing associated with another entity on the provider system. The source system may receive from the human operator associated with the source system an indication of a rejection of the probable matching listing as the listing of the entity on a provider system. The source system may transmit to the user associated with an entity e.g. the merchant the indication of the rejection.

In an example the human operator associated with the source system may employ the source system to search the provider system for the probable matching listing. The human operator associated with the source system may receive an indication that the probable matching listing exists on the provider system. The probable matching listing may neither be marked on the provider system as a representative listing nor be marked as duplicate listing associated with another entity on the provider system. The source system may receive from the human operator associated with the source system an indication of a rejection of the probable matching listing as the listing of the entity on a provider system. The source system may transmit to the user associated with an entity e.g. the merchant the indication of the rejection.

It is to be understood that the attached drawings are for purposes of illustrating the concepts of the invention and may not be to scale.

In examples of the present disclosure merchants may have their business listed in the so called organic search results on a large number of directories including Web sites mobile apps etc. through a single product system with little or no duplicate listing are provided. As used herein the term organic search results refers to but is not limited to listings on search engine results pages that appear because of their relevance to the search terms as opposed to their being advertisements. In contrast non organic search results may include pay per click advertising.

A merchant is permitted to list promotional material comprising enhanced content associated with a listing through among other things highlighted content in search results and more complete content in the business profile on the service provider. In some embodiments a universal resource locator URL is provided to permit the merchant to see their promoted listing on each search service provider s Web site. The merchant is permitted to update their information e.g. when they move or when their phone number changes and enhance their listing e.g. by adding or modifying photos text descriptions special offers hours menus bios products and services events etc. i.e. enhanced content from a single point substantially in real time or near real time.

The term computer or computer platform is intended to include any data processing device such as a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a mainframe computer a server a handheld device a digital signal processor DSP an embedded processor an example of which is described in connection with hereinbelow or any other device able to process data. The computer computer platform is configured to include one or more microprocessors communicatively connected to one or more non transitory computer readable media and one or more networks. The term communicatively connected is intended to include any type of connection whether wired or wireless in which data may be communicated. The term communicatively connected is intended to include but not limited to a connection between devices and or programs within a single computer or between devices and or separate computers over a network. The term network is intended to include but not limited to OTA over the air transmission ATSC DVB T packet switched networks TCP IP e.g. the Internet satellite microwave MPEG transport stream or IP direct broadcast satellite analog cable transmission systems RF and digital video transmission systems ATSC HD SDI HDMI DVI VGA etc.

The one or more computer readable media may be used for storing the instructions to be executed by the one or more processors including an optional operating system such as the Windows or the Linux operating system. The computer readable media may further be used for the storing and retrieval of data in one or more databases. The computer readable media may include a combination of volatile memory such as RAM memory and non volatile memory such as flash memory optical disk s and or hard disk s . Portions of the data stored in the computer readable media may be provided by one or more human users at one or more monitors. The monitor s may be equipped with a keyboard and a mouse for selecting objects of interest by the user or for inputting data.

A plurality of provider search application programming interfaces APIs may permit the source system to search for matching listings as part of a matching process. The provider API searcher may be configured to accommodate existing provider search APIs provided that an existing provider search API meets system standards. In certain circumstances a provider system e.g. may need to modify their search provider API so that it may operate properly with the source system . The provider listing update APIs may be configured to receive information about new and updated listings to display from the listing delivery engine . Should a provider system e.g. be unable to supply a provider listing update API the provider system e.g. may supply a periodic feed receiver for processing periodic data updates generated by the source system containing listings that should contain enhanced content. These are modules designed by each of the provider system e.g. . They are designed to accommodate a source system enhanced listings format. The provider directory site mobile app etc. is a module that serves the directory sites with which a consumer interacts e.g. MapQuest.com the MapQuest iPhone app etc.

The modules are in turn communicatively connected to a plurality of user devices running some form of communication software preferably in a consumer Web browser over a network such as the Internet and a provider database . In an example the computer platform may be communicatively connected to each of the plurality of user devices via a PowerListings JavaScript running in the consumer Web browser when enhanced content is pulled directly from a consumer Web browser or device rather than passing through a provider system e.g. . In such circumstances the PowerListings JavaScript either provided by the system provider or written by the provider system e.g. and included within a Web page may be configured to call the real time content server and obtain the needed enhanced content. Alternatively the PowerListings JavaScript may be replaced with for example a mobile application or some other non Web application. In such circumstances the mobile or external application may communicate directly with the real time content server to obtain the real time content updates. However in an example a request typically passes through a provider system e.g. rather than having a direct connection between the application running on the consumer s device and the real time content server .

In an example the PowerListings Web application may receive listing identification data provided by the merchant associated with a business of a merchant and an identification of a provider system e.g. from the merchant . The listing identification data provided by the merchant may include but is not limited to a business name street address and telephone number. The power listings backend coordinator may transmit a message to a provider API searcher to attempt to find one or more listings matching the received listing identification data to listing data that may be located in the provider database e.g. associated with the provider system e.g. . The provider API searcher may invoke a provider API with the listing identification data supplied by the merchant . The provider API of the provider system may return potential matching listings to the provider API searcher . The provider API searcher may return potential matching listings to the power listings backend coordinator . The power listings backend coordinator may employ a method to determine which of the returned results matches the listing identification data supplied by the merchant if any and a measure of confidence of a match for the provider system e.g. .

A set of representations of listings associated with a merchant hereinafter potential matching listings may be returned by the provider search API . Each listing of the plurality of potential matching listings may have a corresponding external provider supplied identifier or provider supplied identifier associated with the provider system e.g. . The power listings backend coordinator may be configured to categorize the potential matching listings into three categories based on a confidence score assigned by the power listings backend coordinator a confirmed matching listing a probable matching listing or a non matching listing.

In an example if the confidence score assigned to the potential matching listing is above or equal to a first level of confidence the power listings backend coordinator may categorize the potential matching listing as a confirmed matching listing. If the confidence score assigned to the potential matching listing is above or equal to a second level of confidence below the first level of confidence the power listings backend coordinator may categorize the potential matching listing as a probable matching listing. If the confidence score assigned to the potential matching listing is below the second level of confidence the power listings backend coordinator may categorize the potential matching listing as a non matching listing i.e. listings having confidence scores so low that they obviously do not represent the merchant location . Non matching listing are automatically discarded from further consideration by the power listings backend coordinator .

To calculate the confidence score in one example the power listings backend coordinator may normalize the core listing information supplied by the merchant and returned with each potential matching listing. Then the power listings backend coordinator may assign up to one point for similarity of each of the following data fields name address including city state and postal code and primary phone number. The power listings backend coordinator may also assign points for matches of non primary phone numbers and merchant URL. If the potential matching listing has at least three points which can happen only if the name address and primary phone number match exactly or if two of the three match and the other fields match exactly the listing is considered to be so perfect a match that the potential matching listing may be recorded as a confirmed matching listing without merchant verification i.e. equal to or above a first level of confidence . If potential matching listing has a match of at least one point then the potential matching listing may be considered a probable matching listing and can be presented to the merchant and or a human system operator as such otherwise the potential matching listing is considered to be a non matching listing.

If a potential matching listing is categorized as a confirmed matching listing or a probable matching listing the power listings backend coordinator records and associates the provider supplied external identifier or external ID or identifier for the listing along with returned listing data e.g. the name address telephone number and URL associated with the listing found on the provider system in the system database . As used herein an external identifier or an external ID or provider supplied external identifier refers to a unique identifier that the provider system e.g. assigns to a listing for their own purposes. This contrasts with a system provided listing identifier or Listing ID that is a unique identifier assigned by the source system to the same listing on a per provider per listing e.g. per business physical location basis. The power listings backend coordinator may have associated the provider supplied external identifier of confirmed matching listings and probable matching listings with a corresponding system supplied listing identifier in the system database for the provider system e.g. . If the power listings backend coordinator categorized the potential matching listing as a non matching listing then the non matching listing may be discarded with no recording of its external identifier in the system database and no association is made with a system supplied listing identifier. Accordingly the power listings backend coordinator may to remove the non matching listings retain the confirmed matching listings and probable matching listings and record the ranking of the confirmed matching listings and probable matching listings according to their confidence scores in the system database .

After the categorization and ranking process has been completed a location of a business of the merchant may have no representation of a listing on the provider system e.g. exactly one representation on the provider system e.g. or multiple representations on the provider system e.g. .

The merchant may instruct the power listings web application to submit a listing order request using the listing identification data e.g. basic content along with enhanced static content provided by the merchant . When there is no representation of a listing on the provider system e.g. in order to avoid the possible creation of duplicate listings the listing order request may be confirmed and approved by the merchant and or the human operator . If the power listings web application receives a confirmation by merchant and or the human operator the power listings backend coordinator may instruct the listings delivery engine to submit a listing order request along with the basic and enhanced static content entered by the merchant to the provider system e.g. without a provider supplied external identifier for the listing.

When there is exactly one representation of a listing on the provider system e.g. and the listing identification data e.g. basic content along with enhanced static content provided by the merchant is categorized as a confirmed matching listing the power listings backend coordinator may instruct the listings delivery engine to submit the listing order request along with the basic and enhanced static content entered by the merchant to the provider system e.g. with no confirmation by the merchant or the human operator with a provider supplied external identifier for the listing. If the listing identification data e.g. basic content along with enhanced static content provided by the merchant is categorized as a probable matching listing the listing order request may be confirmed and approved by the merchant and or the human operator . If the power listings web application receives a confirmation by merchant and or the human operator the power listings backend coordinator may instruct the listings delivery engine to submit the listing order request along with the basic and enhanced static content entered by the merchant to the provider system e.g. .

When there are multiple representations of a listing on the provider system e.g. the power listings backend coordinator may instruct the listings delivery engine to deliver all representations categorized as confirmed matching listings including duplicates to the provider system e.g. . If the multiple representations include one or more probable matching listings then the one or more probable matching listings may be confirmed and approved by the merchant and or the human operator before the power listings backend coordinator instructs the listings delivery engine to deliver the one or more probable matching listings including duplicates to the provider system e.g. .

When the power listings web application categorizes the listing identification data as a non matching listing indicating that there is no representation of a listing on the provider system e.g. the power listings web application provides the merchant with an indication that the system has found no matching listing corresponding to the listing identification data provided by the merchant on the provider system e.g. . The power listings web application provides the merchant with the option of searching the provider system e.g. using the provider search API associated with the provider system e.g. . The provider search API may return no listings to the power listings web application indicating to the merchant that there is no matching listing as indicated by the merchant on the provider system e.g. . The provider search API may return one or more listings to the power listings web application indicating to the merchant that there is one or more possible matching listings on the provider system e.g. . The merchant may select one best matching listing from the one or more possible matching listings as the listing to be represented on the provider system e.g. .

When there is no matching listing as indicated by the merchant on the provider system e.g. the power listings web application may receive a confirmation from the merchant that there is no matching listing on the provider system e.g. . The power listings web application may instruct the listings delivery engine to submit a listing order request along with the basic and enhanced static content entered by the merchant to the provider system e.g. .

When there is one best matching listing as selected by the merchant on the provider system e.g. the power listings web application may receive a confirmation from the merchant that there is one best matching listing as confirmed by the merchant on the provider system e.g. . The power listings backend coordinator may transmit a listing order request along with basic and enhanced static content entered by the merchant for the best matching listing as selected by the merchant to the human review web application for review by the human operator .

The power listings web application may indicate a non matching listing on the provider system e.g. but the merchant does not confirm that there is no matching listing on the provider system e.g. within a specified period of time i.e. a timeout period . According if a timeout occurs the power listings backend coordinator may transmit the non matching listing e.g. the listing identification data e.g. basic content along with enhanced static content entered by the merchant to the human review web application for review by the human operator . The listing identification data and the non matching categorization presented by the human review web application may indicate to the human operator that the system cannot find a matching listing on the provider system e.g. . In one example the human review web application may receive a confirmation indication from the human operator indicating to the human review web application that there is no matching listing found on the provider system e.g. . Accordingly the power listings backend coordinator may instruct the listings delivery engine to submit a listing order request along with the basic and enhanced static content entered by the merchant to the provider system e.g. .

In another example the human review web application may provide the human operator with the option of searching the provider system e.g. using the provider search API associated with the provider system e.g. . The provider search API may return no listings to the human review web application indicating to the human operator that there is no matching listing on the provider system e.g. . The provider search API may return one or more listings to the human review web application indicating to the human operator that there is one or more possible matching listings on the provider system e.g. . The human operator may select one best matching listing from the one or more possible matching listings as the listing to be represented on the provider system e.g. .

When there is no matching listing as indicated by the human operator on the provider system e.g. the human review web application may receive a confirmation from the human operator that there is no matching listing on the provider system e.g. . The power listings backend coordinator may instruct the listings delivery engine to submit a listing order request along with the basic and enhanced static content entered by the human operator to the provider system e.g. .

When there is one best matching listing as selected by the human operator on the provider system e.g. the human review web application may receive a confirmation from the human operator that there is one best matching listing on the provider system e.g. . The power listings backend coordinator may transmit a listing order request along with basic and enhanced static content entered by the human operator for the best matching listing as selected by the human operator to the provider system e.g. .

If the system categorizes the potential matching listing as probable matching listing for the provider system e.g. then the merchant and or the human operator needs to confirm that the probable matching listing is or is not a confirmed matching listing. More particularly when the power listings backend coordinator categorizes the listing identification data as a probable matching listing indicating that there is a probable representation of a listing on the provider system e.g. the power listings web application may provide the merchant with an indication that the system has found a probable matching listing corresponding to the listing identification data provided by the merchant on the provider system e.g. . If the merchant confirms that the listing identification data for the location of the business associated with the merchant is a matching listing the power listings web application may receive an indication of a confirmation from the merchant . The power listings backend coordinator may instruct the listings delivery engine to submit a listing order request along with the basic and enhanced static content entered by the merchant to the provider system e.g. . If the merchant confirms that the listing identification data for the location of the business associated with the merchant is a non matching listing the power listings web application may receive an indication of a non confirmation from the merchant . Accordingly the power listings web application provides the merchant with the option of searching the provider system e.g. using the provider search API associated with the provider system e.g. . The provider search API may return no listings to the power listings web application indicating to the merchant that there is no matching listing as indicated by the merchant on the provider system e.g. . The provider search API may return one or more listings to the power listings web application indicating to the merchant that there is one or more possible matching listings on the provider system e.g. . The merchant may select one best matching listing from the one or more possible matching listings as the listing to be represented on the provider system e.g. .

When there is no matching listing as indicated by the merchant on the provider system e.g. the power listings web application may receive a confirmation from the merchant that there is no matching listing on the provider system e.g. . The power listings backend coordinator may instruct the listings delivery engine to submit a listing order request along with the basic and enhanced static content entered by the merchant to the provider system e.g. .

When there is one best matching listing as selected by the merchant on the provider system e.g. the power listings web application may receive a confirmation from the merchant that there is one best matching listing as confirmed by the merchant on the provider system e.g. . The power listings backend coordinator may transmit a listing order request along with basic and enhanced static content entered by the merchant for the best matching listing as selected by the merchant to the human review web application for review by the human operator .

From the human review web application the human operator may be presented with one of the following 1 the merchant designated a categorized non matching listing as a confirmed matching listing 2 the merchant designated a categorize probable matching listing as confirmed matching listing 3 the merchant designated a categorize probable matching listing as a non matching listing and had selected another listing on the provider system e.g. as a confirmed matching listing or 4 the system categorized a possible matching listing as a probable matching listing but the merchant did not confirm the probable matching listing as a confirmed matching listing within a timeout period. In such circumstances the human operator reviews the listing identification data e.g. the basic content of name street address and telephone number the static enhanced content and the probable matching listing that the system had categorized as such or an alternative listing that the merchant had selected.

In one example the human operator may confirm the probable matching listing selected by the merchant or the system as a confirmed matching listing. Accordingly the power listings backend coordinator may instruct the listings delivery engine to submit a listing order request along with the basic and enhanced static content entered by the merchant to the provider system e.g. .

In another example the human operator may search for and select an alternative listing on the provider system e.g. as a more suitable matching listing for the location of the business associated with the merchant . More particularly the human review web application may provide the human operator with the option of searching the provider system e.g. using the provider search API associated with the provider system e.g. . The provider search API may return no listings to the human review web application indicating to the human operator that there is no matching listing on the provider system e.g. . The provider search API may return one or more listings to the human review web application indicating to the human operator that there is one or more possible matching listings on the provider system e.g. . The human operator may select one best matching listing from the one or more possible matching listings as the listing to be represented on the provider system e.g. .

When there is no matching listing as indicated by the human operator on the provider system e.g. the human review web application may receive a confirmation from the human operator that there is no matching listing on the provider system e.g. . Accordingly the power listings backend coordinator may instruct the listings delivery engine to submit a listing order request along with the basic and enhanced static content entered by the human operator to the provider system e.g. .

When there is one best matching listing as selected by the human operator on the provider system e.g. the human review web application may receive a confirmation from the human operator that there is one best matching listing on the provider system e.g. . The power listings backend coordinator may transmit a listing order request along with basic and enhanced static content entered by the human operator for the best matching listing as selected by the human operator to the provider system e.g. .

In an example the process of finding zero or more potential matching listings and selecting the best matching listing may be repeated for the remaining provider systems e.g. of the plurality of provider systems . In the event that the best matching listing selected on one provider system e.g. does not match the best matching listing selected on another provider system e.g. the merchant and or the human operator may select one of the listings from among the provider systems as the final best matching listing. Once the final best matching listing is determined the final best matching listing may be delivered to each of the provider sites either substantially simultaneously or in selected groupings.

The listings delivery engine is responsible for delivering listing information to one or more of the plurality of provider systems . The listings delivery engine may receive listing identification data basic and enhanced static content entered by the merchant or the human operator corresponding to the final best matching listing new as input by the merchant or human operator or selected from among the provider systems and an identifier that indicates whether or not there is a matching listing as indicated by the presence or absence of a provider supplied external identifier associated with the final best matching listing in the system database and an identifier of the provider system e.g. . The listings delivery engine then transmits this data to the one or more of the plurality of provider systems using a deliver mechanism supported by the provider listing update APIs or periodic feed receiver module . The delivery method varies via a real time update API or via a periodic feed file described below depending on the capability of a provider system e.g. . As noted above when there is no match for a location of a business associate with a merchant a listing is to be created on the provider system e.g. as indicated by the absence in the data to be transmitted of an associated provider supplied external identifier. When there is a final best matching listing for a location of a business associate with a merchant a listing is to be updated on the provider system e.g. which is indicated by the presence in the data to be transmitted of an associated provider supplied external identifier. The listing delivery engine may be configured to receive a receipt file from the provider system e.g. that indicates success or failure of the creation of a listing or an update to the listing to be described hereinbelow.

The method may be performed by the source system of and may comprise hardware e.g. circuitry dedicated logic programmable logic microcode etc. software e.g. instructions run on a processing device or a combination thereof. In one example the method is performed by processing logic not shown of the source system of .

As shown in at block the source system may receive listing identification data from a merchant . At block the source system may transmit listing identification data to one or more of the provider systems . At block the source system may receive zero or more possible matching listings are from the one or more provider systems . At block if there is at least one returned possible matching listing at block the source system may match the at least one possible matching listing to the listing identification data based on a measure of confidence. At block if a possible matching listing equals or exceeds a predetermined level of confidence e.g. a calculated measure of confidence is equal to or above a first level of confidence indicating a matching listing or above a second level of confidence less than the first level of confidence indicating a probable matching listing then at block the source system may append a provider supplied external identifier to e.g. associated with the listing. Optionally at block the source system may receive from the merchant or by a human system operator an override of a non matching listing or a probable matching listing with another listing. At block the source system may receive a selection of a best matching listing from among the one or more possible matching listings received from the one or more provider systems either automatically or by the merchant and or the human operator . At block the source system may transmit the final best matching listing to one or more provider systems using a listings delivery method based on the presence or absence of the provider supplied external identifier associated with the final best matching listing.

In one example when the listing identification data provided automatically by the one or more provider systems or overridden by either the merchant or the human system operator is determined to be associated with a final best matching listing the source system may deliver the final best matching listing i.e. synchronizes to the one or more provider systems with the provider supplied external identifier as an indication to the one or more provider systems to update an enhanced listing with enhanced content. When the listing identification data provided automatically by the one or more provider systems or overridden by either the merchant or the human system operator is determined not to be associated with a final best matching listing the source system may deliver a listing i.e. synchronizes the listing without the provider supplied external identifier as an indication to the one or more provider systems to create an enhanced listings using the enhanced content proved by the merchant or the human operator .

As shown in at block at periodic intervals e.g. each day the listings delivery engine may generate a file for each provider system containing associated target listings that should receive an enhanced listing. This file may include but is not limited to basic content static enhanced content and the provider supplied external identifier previously identified and associated with one or more listings to be delivered if available. If the provider supplied external identifier for a given listing is not provided then this is an indication that the listing does not exist on the provider system e.g. and should be created by the provider system e.g. . At block for each of the provider systems the listings delivery engine may transmit the generated file to the corresponding provider system e.g. . The listings delivery engine may transfer a corresponding generated file to the corresponding provider system e.g. via a corresponding provider periodic feed receiver using mechanisms that may include for example HTTP FTP or a custom API . Then for each individual provider system e.g. the provider system blocks are executed as described hereinbelow.

At block the provider system may process the listings file received at block on a per listing basis. At block the provider system e.g. may query whether the listing contains an external identifier. If at block the listing does not have an external identifier then at block the provider system e.g. may create a new listing record in the provider database may assign the listing record a new external identifier may add basic content and enhanced static content from the feed i.e. the listing data to the new listing record and may set a flag for the listing indicating that the listing should have dynamic enhanced content when displayed in a consumer web browser as provided by the corresponding provider directory site . If at block an external identifier for the listing was supplied then at block the provider system e.g. may query whether the listing was provided before by the source system . If at block an external identifier was supplied but the listing was not previously provided by the source system then at block the provider system e.g. may store an indication that the listing with the external identifier is to receive basic enhanced content and enhanced static content when displayed in a consumer web browser as provided by a provider directory site associated with the provider system may store a source system listing identifier to be associated with the listing and may incorporate the listing basic content and enhanced static content from the feed into an existing listing record in the provider database e.g. . If at block an external identifier was supplied and at block a listing was previously provided by the source system then at block the provider system may update the existing listing using the basic content and enhanced static content in the provider database to reflect the information provided with the received listing. At block the provider system e.g. may query whether there are any more listings in the listing file to be processed. If at block the last listing in the listing file has not been processed then execution returns to block otherwise processing proceeds to block .

At block the provider system may assemble a list of all of the listings that the provider system indicates are to have basic content and enhanced static content see and at block the provider periodic feed interface corresponding to the provider system may generate a receipt file containing these listings including for each listing the system assigned listing identifier a provider supplied external identifier and a URL where the consumer can expect to see the enhanced listing on the provider system. At block the source system may receive the receipt file from each of the provider systems wherein the provider periodic feed interface returns the receipt file to the listings delivery engine . The power listings backend coordinator may receive the receipt files from provider periodic feed interface . At block for any listings appearing for the first time as determined by a query into the system database by the power listings backend coordinator the power listings backend coordinator may provide the merchant via the power listings web application with an indication that that the enhanced listings are now in service and may supply the merchant with a URL from which the enhanced listing associated with the business of the merchant may be seen. In an example the power listings backend coordinator may employ a web crawler to confirm that the enhanced listing is visible on the supplied URL and that all content including basic content static enhanced content and dynamic enhanced content etc. is visible and correct before notifying the merchant that the enhanced listing is live.

As shown in at block the listing delivery engine of the source system may transmit the new listing to the provider listing update API . At block the provider system e.g. may process the received listing by applying different logic at block based on whether the source system supplies a provider supplied external identifier. If at block no external identifier for the listing was provided then this may serve as an instruction to the provider system e.g. to add a new listing. At block the provider system e.g. may add the new listing in near real time may assign it a provider supplied external identifier and may record an indication that it should be an enhanced listing including saving any basic content and enhanced static content that was transmitted along with it by the source system . At block the provider system e.g. may return the newly assigned provider supplied external identifier to the source system along with a confirmation that the listing will become an enhanced listing. If at block the source system had transmitted a provider supplied external identifier the provider system e.g. may save an indication in its database e.g. that the listing should be an enhanced listing block and may transmit a confirmation to the source system that the request was processed block .

In general a provider system e.g. may accept and may update matching listings that are found by the source system . However given basic content of a location a provider system e.g. may perform their own matching method. Per location and provider system e.g. the power listings backend coordinator may determine and respond to a selection of an alternative listing by the provider system e.g. by comparing the provider supplied external identifier returned in a response e.g. a receipt file from the provider system e.g. to the provider supplied external identifier that is returned in an API search response or feed receipt to the provider supplied external identifier identified by the source system during the matching process. If there is a difference the source system may override the provider supplied external identifier currently present in the source system database with the provider supplied external identifier provided by the provider system e.g. .

In one example the merchant e.g. user of the source system or the human operator may find that there is more than one probable matching listing or matching listing currently residing on a provider system e.g. . Accordingly the merchant or the human operator may request the source system to suppress one or more duplicate listing on the provider system e.g. . The merchant or the human operator may need to confirm all probable duplicate listings on a provider system e.g. that were determined by the source system before having the listing delivery engine of the source system transmit any requests to suppress the probable duplicate listings.

When the merchant is to confirm listings that should be suppressed the merchant may review a display associated with the power listings web application of the source system to observe the listing selected by the source system as a current synchronized match e.g. the listing determined by the system as the best matching listing . The merchant may take one of two actions 1 the merchant may verify that the probable duplicate matches which were found by the source system should be suppressed. Accordingly the merchant may transmit one or more suppression requests using the power listings web application and the listing delivery engine of the source system or 2 the merchant may reject probable duplicate matches that were detected by the source system . The merchant may instruct the power listings web application to mark the rejected duplicate s as non matches and store this information in the system database so that the rejected duplicate matches would not be re submitted for review in future duplicate scans.

From the human review web application the human operator may confirm the following types of duplicate listings 1 the source system has identified probable duplicates but the merchant has not verified or confirmed whether the subject listings are duplicates within a specified period of time or 2 the merchant has submitted one or more requests to suppress potential duplicate listings of a location on a provider site and these listings need to be reviewed by the human operator .

Accordingly the human operator may view the listing identification information the synchronized listing and the list of probable duplicates from the human review web application . Accordingly the human operator may confirm one or more probable duplicate listings need to be suppressed. The human operator may employ the listing delivery engine to deliver suppression requests. In another example the human operator may reject the one or more probable duplicate listings. The human operator may employ the power listings backend coordinator to store one or more indications of rejected probable duplicates as non matching listings in the system database so as to avoid these listings in subsequent scans for duplicate listings. shows a screen shot for the source system removing duplicate lists associate with a location of a business.

In one example the suppression request may be submitted using an application programming interface e.g. the provider listing update APIs . Accordingly the power listings backend coordinator may transmit the provider supplied external identifier of a listing that is to be suppressed and the provider supplied external identifier of the representative listing to the provider system e.g. . The provider system e.g. may respond with an indication of whether or not the suppression attempt was successful.

In another example the suppression request may be submitted using a feed e.g. the provider periodic feed receiver . Accordingly the power listings backend coordinator may transmit the provider supplied external identifier of a listing that is to be suppressed and the provider supplied external identifier of the representative listing to the provider system e.g. . The provider system e.g. may respond with an indication of whether or not the suppression attempt was successful by producing a feed receipt file.

In one example a merchant or a human operator may verify whether the source system had suppressed the one or more duplicate listings after receiving confirmation from the source system of a successful suppression of the one or more duplicate listings by the source system . The merchant or a human operator may attempt to view whether the suppression attempt was successful by initiating a command to retrieve the suppressed listing on the provider system e.g. in the power listings web application or the human review web application respectively. In one example the merchant or a human operator may input a universal resource locator URL of the suppressed listing if the computing device supports input of URLs. In another example for mobile applications without fields for inputting URLs the duplicate listing may be removed from a search results page SERP .

The power listings web application or the human review web application respectively may direct the power listings backend coordinator to initiate the suppression verifier to confirm whether the one or more duplicate listings are suppressed. How the suppression verifier confirms whether the one or more duplicate listings are suppressed varies depending on the type of suppression behavior that a provider system e.g. supports. In one example the suppression verifier may return the appropriate results to the power listings backend coordinator and thence to the power listings web application or the human review web application respectively for display to the merchant or a human operator respectively. Table 1 summarizes examples of suppression behavior by the provider system e.g. a description of the suppression behavior and corresponding verification mechanisms.

Referring to Table 1 one type of suppression behavior supported by the provider system e.g. may be to produce an error message. In one example when a merchant or a human operator inputs a URL of the duplicate listing the provider system e.g. may provide a standard 404 error message e.g. listing not found . The suppression verifier may call the provider details APIs . The human review web application calls the details API of the provider system e.g. with the provider supplied external identifier of the suppressed listing. The suppression verifier may receive a listing not found response.

In another example an additional URL may be provided. The content of the duplicate listing may be merged to the representative synchronized listing. The provider system e.g. may direct the user e.g. the merchant or a human review operator to the representative listing when the consumer inputs the URL of the suppressed listing. The suppression verifier may call the details API of the provider system e.g. with the provider supplied external identifier of the suppressed listing. The suppression verifier may receive a URL redirected response.

In another example the user e.g. the merchant or a human operator may be redirected to a URL of the representative listing. The provider system e.g. may direct the user e.g. the merchant or a human review operator to the representative listing when the consumer inputs the URL of the suppressed listing. The duplicate listing URL may be removed and when reached the provider system e.g. provider may direct the user to the representative synchronized listing directly. The provider system e.g. may direct the user e.g. the merchant or a human review operator to the representative listing when the consumer inputs the URL of the suppressed listing. The suppression verifier may call the details API of the provider system e.g. with the provider supplied external identifier of the suppressed listing. The suppression verifier may receive a URL redirected response. In another example the duplicate listing may be completely removed from a search results page SERP .

With mobile apps wherein a user cannot navigate to the duplicate URL directly suppression verifier may call the search API of the provider system e.g. with the listing identification information of the suppressed listing. The search API of the provider system e.g. may return an indication that the listing does not exist on the provider system e.g. .

Table 2 displays examples of suppression status that the merchant or a human review operator respectively. One example of a status state is processing. When the suppression state is processing the duplicate listing has been identified and suppression attempt has started but has not yet been completed. Another example of a suppression state is suppressed. When the suppression state is suppressed the duplicate listing successfully suppressed and is verified as suppressed by the suppression verifier . Another example of a suppression state is unavailable. When the suppression state is unavailable the duplicate listing cannot be suppressed or cannot be verified successfully . The merchant or a human review operator respectively may view an unavailable reason provided by the power listings backend coordinator .

Examples of the present disclosure are subject to numerous variations. For example the power listings backend coordinator may find more than one potential good or probable matches for a listing. Rather than automatically decide which listing should be the representative listing synchronized listing the power listings backend coordinator may present a whole set of listings returned by the power listings web application or the human review web application respectively to the merchant or a human review operator respectively. The merchant or a human review operator respectively may decide which potential match should be employed as the representative listing synchronized listing and which ones are duplicates.

Since duplicate listings can continuously be created the merchant or a human review operator respectively may be provided with the ability to initiate subsequent suppression attempts. In one example subsequent suppression attempts may be initiated by the power listings backend coordinator . After an initial setup and for each location of a listing having a representative synchronized listing the power listings backend coordinator may periodically instruct the provider API searcher to search for additional duplicates on the provider systems through the provider details API of the provider system e.g. . Additional duplicates that are found may be confirmed by merchant the human review operator or the power listings backend coordinator as described hereinabove.

In another example subsequent suppression attempts may be initiated by the merchant or the human review operator . The merchant or the human review operator may direct the provider API searcher to search for additional duplicates of a listing for a location on a provider site e.g. . If duplicates are found the merchant or the human review operator may confirm the duplicates as described above . In another example the merchant or the human review operator may manually submit data for a duplicate listing of a location on a provider system e.g. . The merchant or the human review operator may enter a URL for a duplicate listing in the power listings web application or the human review web application respectively. The power listings backend coordinator may extract the provider supplied external identifier of the listing from the URL retrieve and display the details of the listing received from the provider details API . The merchant or the human review operator may confirm or deny whether the power listings backend coordinator had provided the correct information that corresponds to the submitted URL. If so the power listings web application or the human review web application may transmit the request to be approved by the merchant or the human review operator respectively as described hereinabove . If not the power listings backend coordinator may discard the submitted URL. shows a screen shot illustrating a successful attempt to suppress a duplicate listing manually.

In another example duplicates may be suppressed at the business level. From time to time merchants may have locations stores that are closed prior to them signing up with the source system . If so the merchant may provide the source system with a list of the closed store listings. The list may be supplied to the source system which in turn may submit the list to one or more of the provider systems to be suppressed.

As shown in at block the source system may select a representative listing of an entity e.g. a business an organization a government agency etc. located on a provider system e.g. . The representative listing may comprise first identification data and a first provider supplied external identifier. Accordingly at block the source system may search the provider system e.g. for additional listings having identification data matching the first identification data. At block the source system may receive from the provider system e.g. a potential matching listing having identification data matching the first identification data and having a second provider supplied external identifier that differs from the first provider supplied external identifier. At block the source system may designate the potential matching listing as a duplicate listing. At block the source system may transmit a request to the provider system e.g. to suppress the designated duplicate listing on the provider system e.g. . The request may comprise the second provider supplied external identifier.

In one example the source system may update in the system database associated with the source system a record associated with the potential matching listing with an indication that the potential matching listing is a duplication listing on the provider system e.g. . In an example the indication may comprise the second provider supplied external identifier.

In an example responsive to the source system receiving an acknowledgement from the provider system e.g. that the provider system e.g. has accepted the request to suppress the designated duplicate listing in view of the second provider supplied external identifier the source system may receive from the provider system e.g. a confirmation that the provider system e.g. has suppressed the designated duplicate listing.

In one example the request by the source system to suppress the designated duplicate listing on the provider system e.g. may be transmitted to the provider system using an application programming interface API . Using the application programming interface API the source system may receive the acknowledgement and the confirmation from the provider system e.g. . In another example the source system may transmit the request to suppress the designated duplicate listing on the provider system e.g. using a first feed. The acknowledgement may be received by the source system from the provider system e.g. using the first feed. The source system may receive the confirmation from the provider system e.g. using a second feed.

In an example in response to the source system receiving from the provider system e.g. the confirmation that the provider system e.g. has suppressed the designated duplicate listing the source system may verify that the designated duplicate listing has been suppressed on the provider system e.g. . In one example verifying that the designated duplicate listing has been suppressed on the provider system e.g. may comprise the source system visiting the address provided by a universal resource locator URL associated with the designated duplicate listing on the provider system e.g. . In another example verifying that the designated duplicate listing has been suppressed on the provider system e.g. may comprise the source system employing an application programming interface API to search the provider system e.g. for the designated duplicate listing.

In an example the source system may receive from the provider system e.g. an indication from the provider system e.g. that the designated duplicate listing no longer exists on the provider system . In one example the indication may be a listing not found response. In another example the source system may receive from the provider system e.g. a universal resource locator redirected response comprising a universal resource locator associated with representative listing. In another example the indication may comprise the source system receiving from the provider system e.g. a list of entries. The provider system may determine that the list of entries does not contain the designated duplicate listing.

In an example the source system may receive from the provider system e.g. a receipt file as a confirmation that the provider system e.g. has suppressed the designated duplicate listing. The receipt file may comprise a record corresponding to the designated duplicate listing the record comprising the second provider supplied external identifier a universal resource locator associated with the designated duplicate listing and an indication that the designated duplicate listing is not in service on the provider system e.g. .

In an example the source system may receive from the provider system e.g. the confirmation that the provider system e.g. has suppressed the designated duplicate listing but the source system verifies that the designated duplicate listing has not been suppressed on the provider system e.g. . Accordingly the source system may update a record in the system database associated with the potential matching listing that was designated as a duplicate listing with an indication that the potential matching listing has not been suppressed on the provider system e.g. . The provider system may re transmit to the provider system e.g. the request to suppress the designated duplicate listing on the provider system e.g. . The request may comprise the second provider supplied external identifier.

In another example the source system may update in the database associated with the source system a record associated with the potential matching listing to indicate the request to suppress the designated duplicate listing was transmitted to the provider system e.g. confirmed as suppressed by the provider system e.g. but not verified by the source system as suppressed on the provider system e.g. .

In one example the source system may assign a confidence score to a potential matching listing. The confidence score may be based the one or more fields of the identification data associated with the potential matching listing. In one example responsive to the source system assigning the confidence score to the potential matching listing equal to or above a first threshold value the source system may mark the potential matching listing as a confirmed matching listing. The source system may perform the designation of the potential matching listing as the duplicate listing. In one example responsive to the source system assigning the confidence score to the potential matching listing lower a second threshold value below the threshold first value the source system may discard for further consideration the potential matching listing as non matching listing. In one example responsive to the source system assigning the confidence score to the potential matching listing equal to or above a second threshold value below the first threshold value the source system may mark the potential matching listing as a probable matching listing.

In one example responsive to the source system designating the potential matching listing as probable matching listing the source system may present the probable matching listing to at least one of a user associated with the entity e.g. the merchant or a human operator associated with the source system . The source system may receive from the at least one of the user associated with the entity e.g. the merchant or the human operator associated with the source system a designation of the probable matching listing as a non matching listing. The source system may mark in the database associated with the source system a record associated with the potential matching listing with an indication that the potential matching listing is a non matching listing. The source system may be operable to remove the non matching listing from future consideration in searches for duplicate listings.

In one example the source system may receive from at least one of the user associated with the entity e.g. the merchant or the human operator associated with the source system a designation of the probable matching listing as a confirmed matching listing. The source system may mark in the database associated with the source system the record associated with the potential matching listing with an indication that the potential matching listing is a confirmed matching listing. The source system may perform the designation of the potential matching listing as the duplicate listing.

In one example the source system may periodically repeat the aforementioned searching receiving a potential matching listing designating and transmitting to further identify and suppress duplicate listings on the provider system e.g. in view of the first identification data of the representative listing. In one example the periodic repeating may be performed automatically by the source system . In another example the periodic repeating may be initiated by at least one of the user associated with the entity e.g. the merchant or the human operator associated with the source system .

In one example the provider system e.g. may be one of a plurality of provider systems associated with the source system . Accordingly the provider system may periodically repeat the aforementioned searching receiving a potential matching listing designating and transmitting to further identify and suppress duplicate listings on the remainder of the plurality of provider systems in view of said extracted identification data of the representative listing.

As shown in at block the source system may receive from a user associated with an entity e.g. the merchant initial identification data of a listing related to the entity e.g. a business an organization a government agency etc. . At block the source system may search a provider system e.g. for one or more listings having identification data matching the initial identification data. At block the source system may receive from the provider system e.g. a plurality of potential matching listings having identification data matching the initial identification data. Each listing of the plurality of potential matching listings may have a corresponding confidence score assigned by the source system . Each listing of the plurality of potential matching listings may have a corresponding provider supplied external identifier assigned by the provider system e.g. . At block the source system may designate a representative listing of the entity located on a provider system e.g. from among the plurality of potential matching listings. The representative listing may be the listing having the highest confidence score assigned by the source system . At block the source system may designate the remaining one or more potential matching listings of the plurality of potential matching listings as one or more duplicate listings. At block the source system may transmit to the provider system e.g. a request to synchronize the representative listing having the highest confidence score assigned by the source system as the representative listing of the entity on the provider system e.g. . The request may comprise a first provider supplied external identifier.

At block responsive to the source system receiving a confirmation from the provider system e.g. that the provider system e.g. has synchronized the representative listing having the highest confidence score assigned by the source system as the representative listing of the entity on the provider system e.g. the response comprising the first provider supplied external identifier the source system may transmit to the provider system e.g. a request to suppress the remaining one or more potential matching listings as one or more duplicate listings. The request to suppress the remaining one or more potential matching listings may comprise the remaining one or more provider supplied external identifiers.

In one example before transmitting the request to suppress the remaining one or more potential matching listings the source system may verify that a plurality of fields associated with the confirmed representative listing are correct. Verifying that the fields of the plurality of fields associated with the confirmed representative listing are correct may comprise the source system transmitting to the provider system e.g. identification data associated with the confirmed representative listing of the entity on the provider system e.g. . The source system may receive from the provider system e.g. the fields of the plurality of fields associated with the confirmed representative listing on a display not shown . The source system may obtain a screen shot of the display not shown . The source system may extract the fields of the plurality of fields from the screen shot. The source system may verify that the extracted fields are correct.

In an example verifying that the fields of the plurality of fields associated with the confirmed representative listing are correct may comprise the source system transmitting to the provider system e.g. identification data associated with the confirmed representative listing of the entity on the provider system e.g. using an application programming interface API . The identification data may comprise the first provider supplied external identifier. The source system may receive from the provider system e.g. the fields of the plurality of fields associated with the confirmed representative listing in a response from the application programming interface. The source system may verify that the fields in the response from the application programming interface are correct.

In an example before the request to suppress the remaining one or more potential matching listings the source system may update in the database associated with the source system a record associated with the listing having the highest confidence score with an indication that the listing having the highest confidence score is the representative listing of the entity located on a provider system e.g. . The indication may comprise the first provider supplied external identifier.

In an example the request to synchronize the representative listing having the highest confidence score may be transmitted by the source system to the provider system e.g. using an application programming interface. An acknowledgement to accept the request to synchronize the representative listing having the highest confidence score may be received by the source system from the provider system e.g. using an application programming interface. The confirmation that the provider system e.g. has synchronized the representative listing may be received by the source system from the provider system e.g. using the application programming interface.

In an example the request to synchronize the representative listing having the highest confidence score may be transmitted by the source system to the provider system e.g. using a first feed. An acknowledgement to accept the request to synchronize the representative listing having the highest confidence score may be received by the source system from the provider system e.g. using the first feed. The confirmation that the provider system has synchronized the representative listing may be received by the source system from the provider system e.g. using a second feed.

In one example the source system may update in the database associated with the source system one or more records associated with the one or more remaining potential matching listings with corresponding one or more indications that the one or more remaining potential matching listings are one or more duplication listings on the provider system e.g. . The one or more indications may comprise the corresponding remaining one or more provider supplied external identifiers.

In an example responsive to the source system receiving an acknowledgement from the provider system e.g. that the provider system e.g. has accepted the request to suppress the remaining one or more potential matching listings as one or more duplicate listings the source system may receive from the provider system e.g. at least one confirmation that the provider system e.g. has suppressed the remaining one or more potential matching listings as one or more duplicate listings. The at least one confirmation may comprise the corresponding remaining one or more provider supplied external identifiers.

In one example the request to suppress the remaining one or more potential matching listings as one or more duplicate listings may be transmitted from the source system to the provider system e.g. using an application programming interface. At least one confirmation that the provider system e.g. has suppressed the remaining one or more potential matching listings as one or more duplicate listings may be received by the source system from the provider system e.g. using the application programming interface.

In one example the request to suppress the remaining one or more potential matching listings as one or more duplicate listings may be transmitted from the source system to the provider system e.g. using a first feed. The acknowledgement to accept the request to suppress the remaining one or more potential matching listings as one or more duplicate listings may be received by the source system from the provider system e.g. using the first feed. The confirmation that the provider system e.g. has suppressed the remaining one or more potential matching listings as one or more duplicate listings may be received by the source system from the provider system e.g. using a second feed.

In one example responsive to the source system receiving from the provider system e.g. the at least one confirmation that the provider system e.g. has suppressed the remaining one or more potential matching listings as one or more designated duplicate listings the source system may verify on the provider system e.g. that the one or more designated duplicate listings have been suppressed on the provider system e.g. . In one example the source system verifying that the remaining one or more potential matching listings have been suppressed on the provider system e.g. may comprise after transmitting the request to suppress the remaining one or more potential matching listings transmitting to the provider system e.g. the corresponding remaining one or more provider supplied external identifiers.

In one example verifying may comprise visiting by the source system on the provider system e.g. the corresponding one or more universal resource locators URL associated with the one or more designated duplicate listings. In one example verifying may comprise the source system employing an application programming interface API to search the provider system e.g. for the one or more designated duplicate listings.

In one example verifying may comprise the source system receiving one or more corresponding indications from the provider system e.g. that the one or more designated duplicate listings no longer exist on the provider system e.g. . The one or more corresponding indications may be one or more listing not found responses. In an example verifying may comprise the source system receiving from the provider system e.g. one or more corresponding universal resource locator redirected responses comprising one or more universal resource locators associated with representative listing. In one example verifying may comprise the source system receiving from the provider system e.g. a list of entries corresponding to a search results page. The source system may determine that the list of entries does not contain the one or more remaining listings.

In one example the source system may assign a confidence score to a potential matching listing. The confidence score may be based the one or more fields of the identification data associated with the potential matching listing. In one example responsive to the source system assigning the confidence score to the potential matching listing equal to or above a first threshold value the source system may mark the potential matching listing as a confirmed matching listing. The source system may perform the designation of the potential matching listing as the duplicate listing. In one example responsive to the source system assigning the confidence score to the potential matching listing lower than a second threshold value below the threshold first value the source system may discard for further consideration the potential matching listing as non matching listing. In one example responsive to the source system assigning the confidence score to the potential matching listing equal to or above a second threshold value below the first threshold value the source system may mark the potential matching listing as a probable matching listing.

In one example responsive to the source system designating the potential matching listing as probable matching listing the source system may present the probable matching listing to at least one of a user associated with the entity e.g. the merchant or a human operator associated with the source system . The source system may receive from the at least one of the user associated with the entity e.g. the merchant or the human operator associated with the source system a designation of the probable matching listing as a non matching listing. The source system may mark in the database associated with the source system a record associated with the potential matching listing with an indication that the potential matching listing is a non matching listing. The source system may be operable to remove the non matching listing from future consideration in searches for duplicate listings.

In one example the source system may receive from at least one of the user associated with the entity e.g. the merchant or the human operator associated with the source system a designation of the probable matching listing as a confirmed matching listing. The source system may mark in the database associated with the source system the record associated with the potential matching listing with an indication that the potential matching listing is a confirmed matching listing. The source system may perform the designation of the potential matching listing as the duplicate listing.

In one example the source system may periodically repeat the aforementioned searching a provider system receiving a plurality of potential matching listings designating a representative listing designating the remaining one or more potential matching listings as one or more duplicate listings transmitting a request to synchronize the representative listing and transmitting a request to suppress the remaining one or more potential matching listings as one or more duplicate listings to further identify and suppress duplicate listings on the provider system e.g. in view of the first identification data of the representative listing. In one example the periodic repeating may be performed automatically by the source system . In another example the periodic repeating may be initiated by at least one of the user associated with the entity e.g. the merchant or the human operator associated with the source system .

In one example the provider system e.g. may be one of a plurality of provider systems associated with the source system . Accordingly the provider system may periodically repeat the aforementioned searching a provider system receiving a plurality of potential matching listings designating a representative listing designating the remaining one or more potential matching listings as one or more duplicate listings transmitting a request to synchronize the representative listing and transmitting a request to suppress the remaining one or more potential matching listings as one or more duplicate listings to further identify and suppress duplicate listings on the remainder of the plurality of provider systems in view of said extracted identification data of the representative listing.

As shown in at block the source system may receive initial identification data of a listing related to an entity. At block the source system may search a provider system e.g. for one or more listings having identification data matching the initial identification data. At block the source system may receive from the provider system e.g. a plurality of potential matching listings having identification data matching the initial identification data. Each listing of the plurality of potential matching listings may have a corresponding confidence score assigned by the source system . Each listing of the plurality of potential matching listings may have a corresponding provider supplied external identifier assigned by the provider system e.g. . At block the source system may designate a representative listing of the entity located on a provider system e.g. from among the plurality of potential matching listings. The representative listing may be the listing having the highest confidence score assigned by the source system . At block the source system may transmit to the provider system e.g. a request to synchronize the representative listing having the highest confidence score assigned by the source system as the representative listing of the entity on the provider system e.g. . The request may comprise a first provider supplied external identifier. At block the source system may receive from the provider system e.g. an indication that a second listing of the plurality of potential matching listings has been selected by the provider system e.g. as the representative listing of the entity on the provider system e.g. . The response may comprise a second provider supplied external identifier. At block the source system may re designate the second listing as the representative listing of the entity on the provider system e.g. and may designate the remaining one or more remaining listing of the plurality of potential matching listings as one or more duplicate listings on the provider system e.g. . At block the source system may transmit to the provider system e.g. a request to suppress the remaining one or more listings as one or more duplicate listings. The request to suppress the remaining one or more listings may comprise one or more third provider supplied external identifiers.

In one example the source system may update in a database associated with the source system a record associated with the second listing with an indication that the second listing is the representative listing of the entity located on a provider system e.g. the indication comprising the second provider supplied external identifier. The source system may update one or more records associated with one or more indications that the one or more remaining listings of the plurality of potential matching listings are one or more duplicate listings on the provider system e.g. the one or more indications comprising the one or more third provider supplied external identifiers.

In an example responsive to the source system receiving an acknowledgement from the provider system e.g. that the provider system e.g. has accepted the request to suppress the one or more remaining listings as one or more duplicate listings the source system may receive from the provider system e.g. at least one confirmation that the provider system E.g. has suppressed the one or more remaining listings as one or more duplicate listings the at least one confirmation comprising the corresponding remaining one or more third provider supplied external identifiers.

In one example the request to suppress the one or more remaining listings as one or more duplicate listings may be transmitted from the source system to the provider system e.g. using an application programming interface. The at least one confirmation that the provider system e.g. has suppressed the one or more remaining listings as one or more duplicate listings may be received by the source system from the provider system e.g. using the application programming interface.

In one example the request to suppress the one or more remaining listings as one or more duplicate listings may be transmitted from the source system to the provider system e.g. using a first feed. The acknowledgement to accept the request to suppress the one or more remaining listings as one or more duplicate listings may be received by the source system from the provider system e.g. using the first feed. The at least one confirmation that the provider system e.g. has suppressed the one or more remaining listings as one or more duplicate listings may be received by the source system from the provider system e.g. using a second feed.

In an example responsive to the source system receiving from the provider system e.g. the at least one confirmation that the provider system e.g. has suppressed the remaining one or more potential matching listings as one or more designated duplicate listings the source system may verify on the provider system e.g. that the one or more designated duplicate listings have been suppressed on the provider system e.g. . In an example responsive to the source system receiving from the provider system e.g. the confirmation that the provider system e.g. has suppressed the one or more remaining listings as one or more duplicate listings the source system may verify on the provider system e.g. that the one or more remaining listings as one or more duplicate listings have been suppressed on the provider system e.g. .

In one example verifying that the one or more remaining listings as one or more duplicate listings have been suppressed on the provider system e.g. may comprise after the source system transmits the request to suppress the one or more remaining listings as one or more duplicate listings transmitting to the provider system e.g. the corresponding one or more third provider supplied external identifiers.

In one example verifying that the one or more remaining listings as one or more duplicate listings have been suppressed on the provider system e.g. may comprise visiting by the source system on the provider system e.g. the corresponding one or more universal resource locators URL associated with the one or more remaining listings. In one example the verifying may comprise employing by the source system an application programming interface API to search the provider system e.g. for the one or more remaining listings. In one example the verifying may comprise the source system receiving one or more corresponding indications from the provider system e.g. that the one or more remaining listings no longer exist on the provider system e.g. .

In one example the one or more corresponding indications may be one or more listing not found responses.

In one example verifying may comprise receiving by the source system from the provider system e.g. one or more corresponding universal resource locator redirected responses comprising one or more universal resource locators associated with the representative listing. In one example verifying may comprise receiving by the source system from the provider system e.g. a list of entries corresponding to a search results page. The source system may determine that the list of entries does not contain the one or more remaining listings.

As shown in at block the source system may receive from at least one of the user associated with an entity e.g. the merchant or the human operator associated with the source system an indication to suppress all listings associated with the entity on one or more provider systems . The indication may comprise identification data of the entity and an indication that the identification data of the entity is no longer valid. At block the source system may retrieve from a database associated with the source system a list of one or more provider systems associated with the source system and having at least one listing corresponding to the entity.

For each provider system in the list of one or more provider systems at block the source system may search the provider system e.g. for listings having identification data matching the identification data of the entity. At block the source system may receive from the provider system e.g. one or more matching listings having identification data matching the identification data of the entity. Each listing of the one or more matching listings may have a corresponding provider supplied external identifier assigned by the provider system e.g. . At block the source system may transmit to the provider system e.g. a request to suppress the one or more matching listings on the provider system e.g. . The request to suppress the one or more matching listings may comprise a list of the one or more corresponding provider supplied external identifiers.

In an example responsive to the source system receiving an acknowledgement from the provider system e.g. that the provider system e.g. has accepted the request to suppress the one or more matching listings in view of the one or more corresponding provider supplied external identifiers the source system may receive from the provider system e.g. a confirmation that the provider system e.g. has suppressed the one or more matching listings.

In one example the request may be transmitted from the source system to the provider system e.g. using an application programming interface. The acknowledgement and the confirmation may be received by the source system from the provider system e.g. using the application programming interface.

In an example the request may be transmitted from the source system to the provider system e.g. using a first feed. The acknowledgement may be received by the source system from the provider system e.g. using the first feed. The confirmation may be received by the source system from the provider system e.g. using a second feed.

In an example responsive to the source system receiving from the provider system e.g. the confirmation that the provider system e.g. has suppressed the remaining one or more potential matching listings as one or more designated duplicate listings the source system may verify on the provider system e.g. that the one or more designated duplicate listings have been suppressed on the provider system e.g. . In an example verifying that the one or more designated duplicate listings have been suppressed on the provider system e.g. may comprise after the source system transmits the request to the provider system e.g. to suppress the one or more matching listings transmitting to the provider system e.g. the list of the one or more corresponding provider supplied external identifiers. In one example verifying that the one or more designated duplicate listings have been suppressed on the provider system e.g. may comprise the source system visiting on the provider system e.g. the one or more universal resource locators URL associated with the one or more matching listings. In one example verifying that the one or more designated duplicate listings have been suppressed on the provider system e.g. may comprise employing by the source system an application programming interface API to search the provider system e.g. for the one or more matching listings. In an example verifying that the one or more designated duplicate listings have been suppressed on the provider system e.g. may comprise the source system receiving an indication from the provider system e.g. that the one or more matching listings no longer exist on the provider system e.g. .

In an example the indication may be one or more listing not found responses. In one example verifying that the one or more designated duplicate listings have been suppressed on the provider system e.g. may comprise the source system receiving from the provider system e.g. a search results page. The source system may determine that the search results page does not contain the one or more matching listings.

In an example the source system receiving a confirmation that the provider system e.g. has suppressed the one or more matching listings may comprise receiving a receipt file. The receipt file may comprise one or more records corresponding to the one or more matching listings. Each record of the one or more records may comprise a provider supplied external identifier associated a corresponding matching listing a universal resource locator associated with the corresponding matching listing and an indication that the corresponding matching listing is not in service on the provider system e.g. .

In one example the source system may receive from at least one of the user associated with an entity e.g. the merchant or the human operator associated with the source system identification data of a replacement entity for delivery of an enhanced listing to a plurality of provider systems . For each provider system e.g. of the plurality of provider systems the source system may transmit to the provider system e.g. identification data of the replacement entity and the enhanced listing to the provider system e.g. without a provider supplied external identifier as an indication to the provider system e.g. to create a listing using the enhanced content.

As shown in at block the source system may receive from a user associated with an entity e.g. a merchant an indication that a listing related to an entity is a duplicate listing of the entity on a provider system e.g. . At block the source system may search the provider system e.g. for the listing the listing having identification data. At block the source system may receive from the provider system e.g. the listing having the identification data. The listing may not be marked by the source system as a representative listing of the entity located on a provider system e.g. nor be marked by the source system as a duplicate listing of the representative listing for other entities. At block the source system may designate the listing as a probable matching listing of the entity on the provider system e.g. . At block the source system may transmit to a human operator associated with the source system the probable matching listing for review.

In one example the human operator may employ the source system to search the provider system e.g. for the probable matching listing. The human operator associated with the source system may receive an indication that the probable matching listing does not exist on the provider system. The source system may receive from the human operator associated with the source system an indication of a rejection of the probable matching listing as the listing of the entity on the provider system e.g. . The source system may transmit to the user associated with an entity e.g. the merchant the indication of the rejection.

In one example the human operator associated with the source system may search the database associated with the provider system for the probable matching listing. The human operator associated with the source system may receive from the source system an indication that the probable matching listing exits on the provider system e.g. . The probable matching listing may be marked on the provider system e.g. as a representative listing or a duplicate listing associated with another entity on the provider system e.g. . The source system may receive from the human operator associated with the source system an indication of a rejection of the probable matching listing as the listing of the entity on a provider system e.g. . The source system may transmit to the user associated with an entity e.g. the merchant the indication of the rejection.

In one example the human operator associated with the source system may search the provider system e.g. for the probable matching listing. The human operator associated with the source system may receive from the source system an indication that the probable matching listing exits on the provider system e.g. . The probable matching listing may be neither marked on the provider system e.g. as a representative listing nor be marked as duplicate listing associated with another entity on the provider system e.g. . The source system may receive from the human operator associated with the source system an indication of a rejection of the probable matching listing as the listing of the entity on a provider system e.g. . The source system may transmit to the user associated with an entity e.g. the merchant the indication of the rejection.

As shown in at block the source system may receive from a user associated with an entity e.g. the merchant a listing no longer associated with an entity on a provider system e.g. . At block the source system may search the provider system e.g. for the listing the listing having identification data. At block the source system may receive from the provider system e.g. the listing having the identification data. The listing may not be marked by the source system as a representative listing of the entity located on a provider system e.g. nor be marked by the source system as a duplicate listing of the representative listing for other entities. At block the source system may designate the listing as a probable matching listing of the entity on the provider system e.g. . At block the source system may transmit to a human operator associated with the source system the probable matching listing for review.

In one example the human operator associated with the source system may employ the source system to search the provider system e.g. for the probable matching listing. The human operator associated with the source system may receive an indication that the probable matching listing does not exist on the provider system e.g. . The source system may receive from the human operator associated with the source system an indication of a rejection of the probable matching listing as the listing of the entity on the provider system e.g. . The source system may transmit to the user associated with an entity e.g. the merchant the indication of the rejection.

In one example the human operator associated with the source system may employ the source system to search the provider system e.g. for the probable matching listing. The human operator associated with the source system may receive an indication that the probable matching listing exits on the provider system e.g. . The probable matching listing may be marked on the provider system e.g. as a representative listing or a duplicate listing associated with another entity on the provider system e.g. . The source system may receive from the human operator associated with the source system an indication of a rejection of the probable matching listing as the listing of the entity on a provider system e.g. . The source system may transmit to the user associated with an entity e.g. the merchant the indication of the rejection.

In an example the human operator associated with the source system may employ the source system to search the provider system e.g. for the probable matching listing. The human operator associated with the source system may receive an indication that the probable matching listing exits on the provider system e.g. . The probable matching listing may neither be marked on the provider system e.g. as a representative listing nor be marked as duplicate listing associated with another entity on the provider system e.g. . The source system may receive from the human operator associated with the source system an indication of a rejection of the probable matching listing as the listing of the entity on a provider system e.g. . The source system may transmit to the user associated with an entity e.g. the merchant the indication of the rejection.

The exemplary computer system includes a processing device a main memory e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM such as synchronous DRAM SDRAM or Rambus DRAM RDRAM etc. a static memory e.g. flash memory static random access memory SRAM etc. and a data storage device which communicate with each other via a bus .

Processing device represents one or more general purpose processing devices such as a microprocessor central processing unit or the like. More particularly the processing device may be complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor reduced instruction set computer RISC microprocessor very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor or processor implementing other instruction sets or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. Processing device may also be one or more special purpose processing devices such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a digital signal processor DSP network processor or the like. Processing device is configured to execute listings manager logic for performing the operations and steps discussed herein.

Computer system may further include a network interface device . Computer system also may include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse and a signal generation device e.g. a speaker .

Data storage device may include a machine readable storage medium or more specifically a computer readable storage medium having one or more sets of instructions e.g. listing manager logic embodying any one or more of the methodologies of functions described herein. Listings manager logic may also reside completely or at least partially within main memory and or within processing device during execution thereof by computer system main memory and processing device also constituting machine readable storage media. Listings manager logic may further be transmitted or received over a network via network interface device .

Machine readable storage medium may also be used to store the device queue manager logic persistently. While machine readable storage medium is shown in an exemplary embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing or encoding a set of instruction for execution by the machine and that causes the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention. The term machine readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media.

The components and other features described herein can be implemented as discrete hardware components or integrated in the functionality of hardware components such as ASICs FPGAs DSPs or similar devices. In addition these components can be implemented as firmware or functional circuitry within hardware devices. Further these components can be implemented in any combination of hardware devices and software components.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as enabling transmitting requesting identifying querying retrieving forwarding determining passing processing disabling or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Embodiments of the present invention also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memory devices including universal serial bus USB storage devices e.g. USB key devices or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions each of which may be coupled to a computer system bus.

The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will be apparent from the description above. In addition the present invention is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the invention as described herein.

It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading and understanding the above description. Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments it will be recognized that the invention is not limited to the embodiments described but can be practiced with modification and alteration within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

