---

title: Methods and apparatus to measure exposure to streaming media
abstract: Methods and apparatus to measure exposure to streaming media are disclosed. An example method includes detecting an ID3 tag associated with streaming media presented at a client device. Data is extracted from a first field of the ID3 tag. The data from the first field of the ID3 tag is processed to generate a first request directed to a first internet domain, the first internet domain based on the data, the first request including a media identifier from a second field of the ID3 tag, the second field of the ID3 tag separate from the first field of the ID3 tag, the media identifier identifying the streaming media. In response to the detection of the ID3 tag, the first request is sent from the client device to the first internet domain.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09503784&OS=09503784&RS=09503784
owner: The Nielsen Company (US), LLC
number: 09503784
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160328
---
This patent arises from a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 144 352 filed on Dec. 30 2013 and entitled METHODS AND APPARATUS TO MEASURE EXPOSURE TO STREAMING MEDIA which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 889 505 which was filed on Oct. 10 2013 and of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 890 176 which was filed on Oct. 11 2013. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 144 352 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 889 505 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 890 176 are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

This disclosure relates generally to measuring media exposure and more particularly to methods and apparatus to measure exposure to streaming media.

In recent years media devices have been provided with Internet connectivity and the ability to retrieve media from the Internet. As such media exposure has shifted away from conventional methods of presentation such as broadcast television towards presentation via consumer devices accessing the Internet to retrieve media for display.

Media providers and or other entities such as for example advertising companies broadcast networks etc. are often interested in the viewing listening and or media behavior of audience members and or the public in general. The media usage and or exposure habits of audience members as well as demographic data about the audience members is collected and used to statistically determine the size and demographics of an audience of interest.

Traditionally audience measurement entities determine audience engagement levels for media programming and or advertisements based on registered panel members. That is an audience measurement entity enrolls people who consent to being monitored into a panel. The audience measurement entity then monitors those panel members to determine media e.g. television programs radio programs movies DVDs etc. presented to those panel members. In this manner the audience measurement entity can determine exposure measures for different media e.g. content and or advertisements based on the collected media measurement data.

Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawing s and accompanying written description to refer to the same or like parts.

Monitoring companies desire to gain knowledge on how users interact with media devices such as smartphones tablets laptops smart televisions etc. In particular the media monitoring companies want to monitor media presentations made at the media devices to among other things monitor exposure to advertisements determine advertisement effectiveness determine user behavior identify purchasing behavior associated with various demographics determine popularity ratings for content etc. Monitoring companies enlist panelists and collect demographic information about the panelists. Media presentation information is then collected in association with the panelists. However it is difficult for monitoring companies to collect detailed demographic information from every user to whom media is presented e.g. non panelists . In examples disclosed herein monitoring companies cooperate with database proprietors e.g. Facebook Twitter Experian etc. that have large databases of demographic information to extend media monitoring capabilities to non panelists.

In examples disclosed herein the presented media is identified using transcoded watermarks. The transcoded watermarks are transmitted as metadata e.g. an ID3 tag that is sent in association with and or as part of the media. The media presentation device e.g. an iPad a smart TV etc. extracts the metadata and transmits the metadata to the database proprietor along with information that identifies the media device and or a user of the media device to the database proprietor. If the database proprietor cannot identify the media device and or a user of the media device the database proprietor redirects the media device to a different database proprietor and or the audience measurement entity so that the media device and or a user of the media device can be identified. If the database proprietor can identify the media device and or a user of the media device the database proprietor reports demographic information associated with the media device and or user of the media device to the audience measurement entity for association with the media and or the metadata identifying the media. In some examples the metadata is not transmitted to the database proprietor to prevent the database proprietor from identifying the media accessed by the media device and or the user.

Traditionally audience measurement entities also referred to herein as ratings entities determine demographic reach for advertising and or media programming based on registered panel members. That is an audience measurement entity enrolls people that consent to being monitored into a panel. During enrollment the audience measurement entity receives demographic information from the enrolling people so that subsequent correlations may be made between media exposure to those panelists and different demographic markets. The audience measurement entity then sets and or retrieves a user and or device identifier so that subsequent impressions related to the panelist can be associated with the panelist and or the demographics of the panelist. In some examples the user and or device identifier is cookie data or another identifier that is used by a media device e.g. an iPad when communicating with the audience measurement entity. Based on the user and or device identifier the audience measurement entity identifies demographic information provided by the panelist. In exchange for providing detailed demographic information panelists are sometimes provided with incentives e.g. apps gift cards cash entry into a raffle and or drawing etc. . Accordingly having a large panel can sometimes become cost prohibitive.

To alleviate the costs of constructing and or maintaining a large panel the audience measurement entity cooperates with other entities to obtain demographic information associated with media presentations. Example methods apparatus and or articles of manufacture disclosed herein enable an audience measurement entity to request demographic information from other entities that operate based on user registration models. Cooperation with other entities that operate based on user registration models enables the audience measurement entity to effectively increase the size of the panel of users.

As used herein a user registration model is a model in which users subscribe to services of those entities by creating an account and providing demographic related information about themselves. Sharing of demographic information associated with registered users of database proprietors enables an audience measurement entity to receive audience measurement information from external sources e.g. database proprietors thus extending the coverage accuracy and or completeness of their demographics based audience measurements. Such access also enables the audience measurement entity to monitor persons who would not otherwise have joined an audience measurement panel.

Any entity having a database identifying demographics of a set of individuals may cooperate with the audience measurement entity. Such entities may be referred to as database proprietors and include entities such as wireless service carriers mobile software service providers social networking sites e.g. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google etc. online retailer sites e.g. Amazon.com Buy.com etc. and or any other Internet site that maintains user registration records e.g. Yahoo MSN Apple iTunes Experian etc. There are many database proprietors operating on the Internet. Database proprietors provide services to large numbers of subscribers. In exchange for the provision of the service the subscribers register with the proprietor. As part of this registration the subscribers provide detailed demographic information. The database proprietors as part of the use of the provided service e.g. a social networking service a shopping service a news service etc. have access to set and or collect cookies and or other identifiers stored by a browser.

The database proprietor s report media presentation information and demographic information associated with the media presentation to the audience measurement entity. In traditional panelist based systems the panelist is aware that they are sharing demographic information with the audience measurement entity. However in examples disclosed herein demographic information is retrieved from a database proprietor and accordingly comes with data privacy concerns because users may be unaware of the sharing of their demographic information . To that end users may approve or prevent the sharing of demographic information on the part of the database proprietor. For example when creating an account with the database proprietor s a user may be asked for their permission to share demographic information with other entities e.g. the audience measurement entity .

In further contrast to demographic information received when enrolling panelists where the panelist is requested to provide very detailed demographic information to the audience measurement entity the demographic information collected by the database proprietor may not be as detailed as demographic information that would otherwise be collected by the audience measurement entity. For example the database proprietor might not request demographic information related to the user s income the user s interests the user s race etc. Furthermore different database proprietors may request and or store different information from the user. For example a social media database proprietor may store demographic information related to user s race interests location etc. while a credit reporting database proprietor may store demographic information related to a user s financial information e.g. income credit score etc. .

In examples disclosed herein database proprietors provide demographic information concerning users to the audience measurement entity e.g. The Nielsen Company of Schaumburg Ill. United States of America in association with particular pieces of media. The demographic information in some examples is provided in the aggregate. In some examples a database proprietor transmits demographic information on an aggregate basis when a threshold number of users to whom a particular piece of media was presented is reached. For example aggregated demographic information may be provided only when there are more than one hundred users associated with the media. However any other threshold amount of users may additionally or alternatively be used. In contrast demographic information may be provided to the ratings entity on an individual basis when a single user is identified in association with the demographic information. Whether to provide the demographic information to the ratings entity in the aggregate or individually may be determined by the database proprietor for any reason such as for example privacy laws in the jurisdiction of the database proprietor business factors technical limitations etc.

In some examples to more accurately associate media presentations with the correct demographics example methods apparatus and or articles of manufacture disclosed herein leverage user information located in the audience measurement entity s records e.g. panelist information as well as user information located at one or more database proprietors e.g. web service providers that maintain records or profiles of users having accounts therewith. In some examples multiple database proprietors may report demographic information to the media monitoring entity in association with the same media. Multiple sources e.g. demographic information from the panels of an audience measurement company and or registered user data of web service providers may be useful because the additional data results in improved accuracy of demographic metrics for content and or advertising campaigns. Example techniques disclosed herein use online registration data to identify demographics of users to track quantities of impressions attributable to demographics associated with those users. As used herein an impression refers to an exposure to media e.g. content and or an advertisement . In Internet advertising a quantity of impressions or impression count is the total number of times an advertisement or advertisement campaign has been accessed by a population. Impressions do not take into account multiple exposures to the same individual i.e. two exposures to the same person count as two impressions . In contrast unique impression counts eliminate duplicate exposures and thus only count one exposure per person irrespective of how many times that person may actually experience an exposure.

As used herein the term media includes any type of content and or advertisement delivered via any type of distribution medium. Thus media includes television programming or television advertisements radio programming or radio advertisements movies web sites streaming media etc. Example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture disclosed herein monitor media presentations at media devices. Such media devices may include for example Internet enabled televisions personal computers Internet enabled mobile handsets e.g. a smartphone such as an Apple iPhone a Samsung Galaxy S 4 etc. video game consoles e.g. Xbox PlayStation 3 tablet computers e.g. an iPad digital media players e.g. AppleTV a Roku media player a Slingbox etc. etc. In some examples media monitoring information is aggregated to determine ownership and or usage statistics of media devices relative rankings of usage and or ownership of media devices types of uses of media devices e.g. whether a device is used for browsing the Internet streaming media from the Internet etc. and or other types of media device information. In examples disclosed herein monitoring information includes but is not limited to media identifying information e.g. media identifying metadata codes signatures watermarks and or other information that may be used to identify presented media application usage information e.g. an identifier of an application a time and or duration of use of the application a rating of the application etc. and or device and or user identifying information e.g. a username a media access control MAC address an Internet Protocol IP address an Apple ID a panelist identifier a Google ID any other type of identifier etc. .

Media devices such as tablet computers e.g. an Apple iPad an Asus Transformer etc. present media using apps and or browsers that access retrieve request and or present media e.g. Internet media . Many different browsers exist such as for example Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari Dolphin etc. Apps and or browser s can be downloaded by users through app stores such as for example Apple iTunes Google Play etc.

Operating systems of the media devices and or browsers operated by the media devices are often closed platforms. That is the operating systems and or browsers provide a limited set of functions that can be accessed. In some examples browsers have access to a limited set of functionality for sharing data outside of the media device. For example browsers may have access to a limited set of user information e.g. cookies and or may not allow programmatic access to audio and or video of media presented by the device. Cookies can be used to store information related to a user of the media device in association with an accessed domain e.g. Facebook.com twitter.com Nielsen.com etc. . For example a username may be stored in association with a particular domain display settings may be stored in association with the domain etc. Traditionally cookies are of limited use for identifying users across domains. For example browsers are only permitted to transmit cookies when accessing a site having a domain name matching the cookies. For example browsers are not allowed to transmit cookies associated with the domain xyz.com when accessing the domain abc.com. 

While cookies and or other identifiers can be used to identify the media device and or a user of the media device to the audience measurement entity and or the database proprietor it is equally important to properly identify the media presented via the media device. Media is traditionally identified using codes signatures watermarks etc. embedded in audio and or video of the media. However identification of an audio and or video watermark at media devices presents difficulties. For example some media devices do not allow programmatic access to the audio and or video of the media processing audio and or video watermarks may quickly drain a battery of the media device etc. Examples disclosed herein address this problem through transcoding. In some such examples a service provider e.g. a streaming media provider transcodes the watermark into a format which is readily ascertainable by the media device.

In some examples media identifying metadata having a first format is extracted from the presented media. The media identifying metadata may indicate for example a watermark associated with the media a universal resource locator URL e.g. a URL of a database proprietor etc. indicating where to transmit a notification of the media presentation. In some such examples the transport stream corresponds to a Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG 2 transport stream sent according to a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP live streaming HLS protocol. In some examples the watermark is an audio watermark that is embedded in an audio portion of the media using a first metadata format. In some examples the watermark having the first format is transcoded into media identifying metadata having a second format. The media identifying metadata having the second format may correspond to for example a textual representation of the watermark such as a base 64 hexadecimal string of characters. In some examples the media identifying metadata is transmitted in a metadata transport stream associated with the media.

In some disclosed examples streaming media is delivered to the media device using HTTP Live Streaming HLS . However any other past present and or future method of streaming media to the media device may additionally or alternatively be used such as for example an HTTP Secure HTTPS protocol. HLS transport streams allow metadata to be included in and or associated with for example a media stream a timed text track etc. In some disclosed examples a media device uses a browser to display media received via HLS. Additionally or alternatively in some disclosed examples the media device uses a media presenter e.g. a browser plugin an app a framework an application programming interface API etc. to display media received via HLS.

Some example methods disclosed herein include decoding the HLS transport stream carrying the media identifying metadata streamed to a media device to obtain the media. Some such example methods also include extracting metering data from the media and or receiving metering data from an independent metering data source e.g. a timed text track file sent in association with the media a manifest file etc. . In some examples in addition to identifying the media the media identifying metadata may additionally or alternatively identify a source of the media. Additionally some such example methods further include decoding media identifying metadata e.g. such as electronic guide EPG data playlist data etc. already accompanying the transport stream carrying the media. Some such example methods further include verifying the media identifying metadata using the metering data e.g. the transcoded watermark extracted from the media.

In examples disclosed herein media exposure metrics are monitored by retrieving metadata embedded in or otherwise transported with the media presented via a media presenter of the media device. In some examples the metadata is stored in a Document Object Model DOM object. The DOM is a cross platform and language independent convention for representing and interacting with objects in Hypertext Markup Language HTML . In some examples media presenters e.g. media plugins such as for example the QuickTime player emit DOM events that can be captured via JavaScript. By capturing the DOM events triggered by the media presenter it is possible to extract metadata via the DOM. Once extracted the metadata may be combined with other information such as for example cookie or other user identifying data associated with the user of the device and transmitted to for example a database proprietor and or the audience measurement entity for analysis and or computation with data collected from other devices.

In some examples the metadata is stored in an ID3 tag format although any other past present and or future metadata format may additionally or alternatively used. An ID3 tag is a metadata container that may be appended to and or transmitted in association with media. In the examples disclosed herein an ID3v2 format is used. In particular the media identifying metadata is stored in a private frame of the ID3 tag. However any other past present or future way of storing media identifying metadata may additionally or alternatively be used.

In examples disclosed herein a software development kit SDK is provided to website developers from for example an audience measurement entity or other entity. The SDK facilitates instrumenting and or otherwise enabling websites e.g. media websites such as streaming video websites news websites image websites social media websites online gaming websites etc. with monitoring functionalities which collect and transmit monitoring information e.g. a cookie and or other user or device identifier a media identifier the ID3 tag etc. to a database proprietor and or the audience measurement entity. In particular the website developers create websites that include media monitoring instructions using the SDK. Accordingly rather than relying on a dedicated monitoring application installed on a computer e.g. a tablet a laptop a smartphone etc. websites disclosed herein are instrumented with monitoring instructions such that the browser transmits monitoring information to the database proprietor and or the monitoring entities e.g. the audience measurement entity . In some examples monitoring instructions provided by the SDK are implemented using JavaScript instructions. However any other language or type of script or instructions may additionally or alternatively be used. The monitoring instructions enable the browser to notify the database proprietor and or the monitoring entities e.g. the audience measurement entity when a website and or media associated with the website is presented notify the database proprietor and or the monitoring entities e.g. the audience measurement entity what media and or website s are presented notify the database proprietor and or the monitoring entities e.g. the audience measurement entity how the website and or media is being presented e.g. via a tablet display via a television etc. notify the database proprietor and or the monitoring entities e.g. the audience measurement entity of a duration of exposure of a website and or media associated with the website etc. In some examples the media monitoring instructions may be triggered by for example presentation of a media element such as for example a video audio an image etc.

Example methods apparatus and or articles of manufacture disclosed herein enable reporting of media impressions and corresponding demographics from the database proprietor to the ratings entity also referred to herein as an audience measurement entity AME. In this manner the AME can track media impressions on media devices and or create reports of media impressions broken down by different demographic statistics.

Example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture disclosed herein can be used to determine media impressions content impressions advertisement impressions content exposure and or advertisement exposure using user information which is distributed across different databases e.g. different website owners service providers etc. on the Internet. Not only do example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture disclosed herein enable more accurate correlation of Internet media exposure to user e.g. demographics information but they also effectively extend panel sizes and compositions beyond persons participating in the panel of a monitoring entity e.g. an audience measurement entity and or a ratings entity to persons registered in Internet databases such as the databases of wireless service carriers mobile software service providers social medium sites e.g. Facebook Twitter Google etc. and or any other Internet sites such as Yahoo MSN Apple iTunes Experian etc. This extension effectively leverages the media exposure tracking capabilities of a monitoring entity e.g. the audience measurement entity and the databases of non AME entities such as social media and or other websites to create an enormous demographically accurate panel that results in accurate reliable measurements of exposures to media such as advertising and or content e.g. programming .

The example media provider of the illustrated example of represents any one or more media provider s capable of providing media for presentation at the client device . The media provided by the media provider s can be any type of media such as audio video multimedia webpages etc. Additionally the media can correspond to live e.g. broadcast media stored media e.g. on demand content etc.

The service provider of the illustrated example of provides media services to the client device via for example web pages including links e.g. hyperlinks embedded media etc. to media provided by the media provider . In the illustrated example the service provider modifies the media provided by the media provider prior to transmitting the media to the client device . In the illustrated example the service provider includes an example media identifier an example transcoder an example metadata embedder and an example media transmitter .

The media identifier of the illustrated example of is implemented by a logic circuit such as a processor executing instructions but it could additionally or alternatively be implemented by an application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s and or field programmable logic device s FPLD s an analog circuit and or other circuitry. The media identifier of extracts metering data e.g. signatures watermarks etc. from the media obtained from the media provider . For example the media identifier can implement functionality provided by a software development kit SDK to extract one or more audio watermarks one or more video e.g. image watermarks etc. embedded in the audio and or video of the media obtained from the media provider . For example the media may include pulse code modulation PCM audio data or other types of audio data uncompressed video image data etc. 

The example media identifier of determines e.g. derives decodes converts etc. the metering data e.g. media identifying information source identifying information etc. included in or identified by a watermark embedded in the media and converts this metering data and or the watermark itself into a text and or binary format for inclusion in an ID3 tag and or other data type e.g. text binary etc. for transmission as metadata e.g. such as with a playlist or electronic program guide accompanying the streaming media. For example the code watermark itself may be extracted and inserted as metadata in for example a text or binary format in the ID3 tag. Thus the metadata and or media identifying metadata included in the ID3 tag may be a text or binary representation of a code a watermark and or metadata or data identified by a code and or watermark etc. Additionally or alternatively the watermark may be used to retrieve metering data from a local or remote database. In some examples the media identifying metadata is stored in a private frame of the ID3 tag. In some other examples the ID3 tag includes a location of a database proprietor to which the monitoring information should be sent.

The example transcoder of the illustrated example of is implemented by a logic circuit such as a processor executing instructions but could additionally or alternatively be implemented by an analog circuit ASIC DSP FPGA and or other circuitry. In some examples the transcoder and the media identifier are implemented by the same physical processor. In the illustrated example the transcoder employs any appropriate technique s to transcode and or otherwise process the received media into a form suitable for streaming e.g. a streaming format . For example the transcoder of the illustrated example transcodes the media in accordance with MPEG 4 audio video compression for use with the HLS protocol.

The metadata embedder of the illustrated example of is implemented by a logic circuit such as a processor executing instructions but could additionally and or alternatively be implemented by an analog circuit ASIC DSP FPGA and or other circuitry. In some examples the transcoder the media identifier and the metadata embedder are implemented by the same physical processor.

In the illustrated example the metadata embedder embeds the metadata determined by the media identifier into the transport stream s carrying the streaming media. In the illustrated example the metadata embedder embeds the metadata into an internal metadata channel such as by encoding metadata that is in a binary and or other appropriate data format into one or more data fields of the transport stream s that is are capable of carrying metadata. For example the metadata embedder can insert ID3 tag metadata corresponding to the metering metadata into the transport stream s that is are to stream the media in accordance with the HLS or other appropriate streaming protocol. Additionally or alternatively the metadata embedder may embed the metadata into an external metadata channel such as by encoding the metadata into an M3U8 or other data file that is to be associated with e.g. included in appended to sent prior to etc. the transport stream s that are to provide the streaming media to the client device .

The media transmitter of the illustrated example of is implemented by a logic circuit such as a processor executing instructions but could additionally or alternatively be implemented by an analog circuit ASIC DSP FPGA and or other circuitry. In some examples the transcoder the media identifier the metadata embedder and the media transmitter are implemented by the same physical processor.

The media transmitter of the illustrated example employs any appropriate technique s to select and or stream the media to a requesting device such as the client device . For example the media transmitter of the illustrated example selects media that has been identified by the media identifier transcoded by the transcoder and undergone metadata embedding by the metadata embedder . The media transmitter then streams the media to the client device via the network using HLS or any other streaming protocol.

In some examples the media identifier the transcoder and or the metadata embedder prepare media for streaming regardless of whether e.g. prior to a request is received from the client device . In such examples the already prepared media is stored in a data store of the service provider e.g. such as in a flash memory magnetic media optical media etc. . In such examples the media transmitter prepares a transport stream for streaming the already prepared media to the client device when a request is received from the client device . In other examples the media identifier the transcoder and or the metadata embedder prepare the media for streaming in response to a request received from the client device .

The example network of the illustrated example is the Internet. Additionally or alternatively any other network s communicatively linking the service provider and the client device such as for example a private network a local area network LAN a virtual private network VPN etc. may be used. The network may comprise any number of public and or private networks using any type s of networking protocol s .

The client device of the illustrated example of is a computing device that is capable of presenting streaming media provided by the media transmitter via the network . The example client device of the illustrated example is capable of directly presenting media e.g. via a display while in other examples the client device presents the media on separate media presentation equipment e.g. speakers a display etc. . Thus as used herein a client device may or may not be able to present media without assistance from a second device. Client devices are typically consumer electronics devices. For example the client device of the illustrated example is a tablet such as an Apple iPad and thus is capable of directly presenting media e.g. via an integrated display and speakers . While in the illustrated example a tablet is shown any other type s and or number s of client device s may additionally or alternatively be used. For example Internet enabled mobile handsets e.g. a smartphone an iPod etc. video game consoles e.g. any generation of Xbox PlayStation etc. tablet computers e.g. an iPad a Motorola Xoom etc. digital media players e.g. a Roku media player a Slingbox a Tivo etc. smart televisions etc. may additionally or alternatively be used.

Client devices such as the client device of traditionally include a browser for displaying media. A browser is an application for retrieving and displaying websites and media associated therewith. When retrieving and displaying websites the browser may execute scripts such as for example JavaScript. The scripts are provided as part of and or are referenced by the website. In some examples the scripts executed by the browser cause the browser to store information in association with the domain of the website. For example the scripts can cause the browser to store information as a cookie. In some such examples every time that the browser retrieves the website the cookie is sent to the location from which the website is requested. However only cookies associated with a domain of the requested website are transmitted. For example cookies for the domain xyz.com are not transmitted when requesting abc.com. Sometimes when requesting an Internet resource at a first location e.g. a URL the browser may receive a response from a server at the first location that the browser should re direct the request to a second location. In examples disclosed herein the response is implemented using a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP redirect message. However any other way of redirecting a browser to a second location may additionally or alternatively be used.

The example database proprietor of the illustrated example of are implemented by a server hosted by an entity having a database identifying demographics of a set of individuals. The server cooperates with the audience measurement entity to collect and return media presentation information and demographic information associated therewith. The example database proprietor includes entities such as wireless service carriers mobile software service providers social networking sites e.g. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google etc. online retailer sites e.g. Amazon.com Buy.com etc. and or any other Internet site that maintains user registration records e.g. Yahoo MSN Apple iTunes Experian etc. While in the illustrated example of there are two database proprietors there may be any number of database proprietors. The database proprietors provide services to large numbers of users. In exchange for the provision of the service the users register with the proprietor. As part of this registration the users provide detailed demographic information such as for example their home mailing address their credit score their race and or ethnicity their age their yearly income etc. The database proprietors as part of the use of the provided service e.g. a social networking service a shopping service a news service etc. have access to set and or collect cookies stored by a browser accessing their domain e.g. the Facebook.com domain and therefore can identify users of the service when the user transmits a request to the database proprietor by retrieving the cookies from the user device. Although this example speaks of cookies any other type of user identifier may be employed.

The central facility of the audience measurement entity of the illustrated example of includes an interface to receive reported metering information e.g. metadata from the browser of the client device and or the database proprietor via the network . In the illustrated example the central facility includes an HTTP interface to receive HTTP requests that include the metering information. Additionally or alternatively any other method s to receive metering information may be used such as for example an HTTP Secure protocol HTTPS a file transfer protocol FTP a secure file transfer protocol SFTP etc.

In the illustrated example the central facility instructs the metadata embedder and or more generally the service provider to embed a tag in media to be streamed. In the illustrated example the tag is formatted as an ID3 tag. For example the tag may be formatted as a JavaScript instruction. However any other format of tag and or instructions may additionally or alternatively be used. In some examples the metadata embedder is provided to the service provider by the audience measurement entity.

In the illustrated example the central facility stores and analyzes metering information received from a plurality of different client devices and or from the database proprietor s . For example the central facility may sort and or group metering information by media provider e.g. by grouping all metering data associated with a particular media provider . Any other processing of metering information may additionally or alternatively be performed. In the illustrated example the central facility is associated with an audience measurement company and is not involved with the delivery of media to the client device.

Although the following examples refer to an audience measurement entity any monitoring entity may fill this role. is a block diagram of an example system constructed in accordance with the teachings of this disclosure to monitor media presentations. In the illustrated example of to track media impressions on a client device an audience measurement entity AME partners with or cooperates with the service provider to create a website that includes monitoring instructions. In the illustrated example the AME provides a software development kit SDK to the service provider . The SDK of the example of is a set of development tools e.g. libraries e.g. dynamically linked libraries DLLs application programming interfaces APIs instructions JavaScript files etc. that enable the service provider to integrate monitoring instructions into the website transmitted to the client device . In examples disclosed herein the monitoring instructions enable identification of media presented at the client device as well as identification of the user device and or demographics of the corresponding user via interaction with a database provider.

As disclosed herein the media monitoring instructions include instructions e.g. Java JavaScript or any other computer language or script that when executed by the browser and or more generally the client device cause the client device to collect and or otherwise identify the media presented by the browser and or the client device and to collect one or more user identifiers A B e.g. cookies . The user identifiers A B of the illustrated example include identifiers that can be used by corresponding ones of the partner database proprietors to identify the user or users of the client device and to locate user information corresponding to the user s . For example the user identifiers A B may include hardware identifiers e.g. an international mobile equipment identity IMEI a mobile equipment identifier MEID a media access control MAC address etc. an app store identifier e.g. a Google Android ID an Apple ID an Amazon ID etc. an open source unique device identifier OpenUDID an open device identification number ODIN a login identifier e.g. a username an email address user agent data e.g. application type operating system software vendor software revision etc. third party service identifiers e.g. advertising service identifiers device usage analytics service identifiers demographics collection service identifiers cookies etc. In some examples fewer or more user identifiers A B may be used. The user identifiers A B and the media identifying metadata are transmitted in a request to a database proprietor . The request is referred to as a dummy request in that it is not actually requesting information e.g. a webpage but rather is a vehicle for conveying monitoring information e.g. the user identifier s A B the media identifying metadata etc. . In addition although only two database proprietors are shown in the AME may partner with any number e.g. 1 2 3 4 etc. of partner database proprietors to collect distributed media monitoring information. In examples disclosed herein the database proprietors collect and or establish the user identifiers A B when for example a user of the client device uses a service provided by the database proprietor .

In the illustrated example the client device requests media from the service provider line . The media may be an advertisement video audio text a graphic a web page news educational media entertainment media or any other type of media. In the illustrated example service provider replies to the request with the media line . The reply from the service provider e.g. the media includes monitoring instructions that cause the browser to identify the media to for example a third party. The browser then displays the media and identifies the media by accessing a media ID provided in and or in association with the media. In examples disclosed herein the media ID is an ID3 tag including media identifying metadata source identifying metadata a watermark etc. At the direction of the monitoring instructions the browser then transmits a dummy request to the database proprietor line . In the illustrated example a user identifier A e.g. a cookie associated with the database proprietor has previously been stored by the browser . The request to the database proprietor line includes the user identifier A and the media identifier. In some examples the media identifier is encrypted to prevent the database proprietor from identifying the media. The encrypted media identifier may later be decrypted by the central facility . The database proprietor then determines that it can identify the user based on the user identifier A stores a record of the media presentation and sends an acknowledgement to the client device line . At a later time the database proprietor transmits the record of the media presentation to the central facility line and in return receives an acknowledgement message line . The record of the media presentation includes the media identifying metadata which may be encrypted . In some examples the media identifying metadata of the record is formatted as an ID3 tag. Based on the received record the central facility and or more generally the AME may report on presentation metrics for different media.

In the illustrated example of the first request the browser and or more generally the client device requests media from the service provider line . The media is returned to the browser line . At the direction of the monitoring instructions e.g. instructions located by or carried in an ID3 tag transmitted with the media the browser then transmits a request and accompanying user identifier A to the central facility line . In the illustrated example of the central facility is not able to identify a user associated with the user identifier A and or no user identifier is included in the request . In response the central facility transmits an HTTP redirect message to the browser line .

Like the example database proprietor of the example central facility of receives dummy requests from the browser and in some examples replies to the browser with a redirection message. The browser follows the redirect message and transmits a request to the database proprietor identifying the media along with the user identifier B stored in association with the database proprietor . The database proprietor inspects the user identifier B stores the user identifier in association with the media identifier and being able to identify a user associated with the user identifier B transmits an acknowledgement to the browser line . The database proprietor then transmits the media monitoring information and demographic information associated with the user to the central facility line and receives an acknowledgement from the central facility line .

While in the illustrated examples of and or A only two database proprietors are shown any number of database proprietors may additionally or alternatively be used. Furthermore while a single database proprietor records the monitoring information in the illustrated example multiple database proprietors may record such information. Recording the media identifying information and or demographic information associated with presentation of the media associated with the media identifying information in multiple locations may increase the accuracy of the demographic information associated with the media presentation may enable recordation of monitoring information that might not otherwise be recorded etc.

The media presenter of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could additionally or alternatively be implemented by an analog circuit an ASIC DSP FPGA and or other circuitry. In the illustrated example the media presenter interacts with a QuickTime application programming interface API to display media via the client device . While in the illustrated example the QuickTime API is used any other media presenting framework may additionally or alternatively be employed. For example the example media presenter may interact with an Adobe Flash media presentation framework.

The example event listener of the illustrated example of is implemented by a logic circuit such as a processor executing instructions but it could additionally or alternatively be implemented by an analog circuit an ASIC DSP FPGA and or other circuitry. In some examples the media presenter and the event listener are implemented by the same physical processor. In the illustrated example the example event listener interfaces with JavaScript functions to enable reception of and or listening for an event notification. An event notification is any notification of activity within the browser and or application. Event notifications may be triggered when for example a new webpage is loaded media is presented a user input is detected etc. While JavaScript is used to listen for event notifications in the illustrated example any other framework such as for example ActiveX Microsoft Silverlight etc. may be used to listen for event notifications.

The metadata retriever of the illustrated example of is implemented by a logic circuit such as a processor executing instructions but it could additionally or alternatively be implemented by an analog circuit an ASIC DSP FPGA and or other circuitry. In some examples the media presenter the event listener and the metadata retriever are implemented by the same physical processor. In the illustrated example the metadata retriever retrieves metadata from the media presenter upon detection of an event notification by the event listener . In the illustrated example the metadata retriever retrieves the metadata by inspecting a document object model DOM object of the media presenter using JavaScript. While JavaScript is used to retrieve the DOM object in the illustrated example any other framework such as for example ActiveX Microsoft Silverlight etc. may be used to retrieve the DOM object. In some examples the metadata retriever retrieves operational information about the media presenter and or more generally the browser . The retrieved operational information may include for example information about whether the media presenter is fully or partially visible e.g. the media presenter is fully viewable the media presenter is 50 viewable the media presenter is not viewable etc. information about whether the media presenter is in the foreground or background etc. In some examples the operational information is transmitted to the audience measurement entity to enable computation of additional media presentation metrics e.g. whether users listen to streaming audio with the media presenter in the background etc. .

The metadata converter of the illustrated example of is implemented by a logic circuit such as a processor executing instructions but it could additionally or alternatively be implemented by an analog circuit an ASIC DSP FPGA and or other circuitry. In some examples the media presenter the event listener the metadata retriever and the metadata converter are implemented by the same physical processor. In the illustrated example the metadata converter converts the metadata retrieved by the metadata retriever into a format for transmission to the database proprietor . For example the metadata converter may encrypt decrypt compress modify etc. the metadata and or portions of the metadata to for example reduce the amount of data to be transmitted to the database proprietor . In some examples the metadata converter encrypts the media identifying metadata to prevent the database proprietor from identifying the media. In such an example the database proprietor transmits demographic information in association with the encrypted media identifying metadata to the central facility . The central facility e.g. the audience measurement entity decrypts the encrypted media identifying metadata to identify the presented media.

The metadata transmission location determiner of the illustrated example of is implemented by a logic circuit such as a processor executing instructions but it could additionally or alternatively be implemented by an analog circuit an ASIC DSP FPGA and or other circuitry. In some examples the media presenter the event listener the metadata retriever the metadata converter and the metadata transmission location determiner are implemented by the same physical processor. In the illustrated example the metadata transmission location determiner inspects the metadata and or information transmitted with the metadata to determine where to transmit a dummy request carrying the metadata and any associated user identifying information e.g. the user identifiers A B . In the illustrated example the metadata is transmitted as an ID3 tag. In some such examples the ID3 tag includes a destination to which the dummy request should be transmitted. In the illustrated example the destination is a universal resource locator URL that includes the media identifying information as well as specifying the Internet domain where it should be transmitted e.g. databaseproprietor.com . However in some examples the destination and the media identifying information are transmitted separately. In such an example the metadata transmission location determiner determines a URL based on the destination and the media identifying information.

In some examples different service providers implement the monitoring instructions to specify the destination e.g. the specific database proprietor where the media identifying information is to be transmitted. Different service providers may accordingly be associated with different database proprietors. Associations with different database proprietors may result in a more efficient and or more accurate recordation of media impressions and association of those impressions with demographic information. For example users who view media at a financial website may be more readily identifiable by a database proprietor associated with financial services e.g. a stock broker a credit bureau Experian etc. than a database proprietor associated with social media e.g. Facebook Twitter etc. . Therefore a service provider may create the monitoring instructions to cause the client device to send a dummy request to a specific database proprietor e.g. Experian that matches the media to be annotated.

In the illustrated example a destination field of the ID3 tag conveying the media identifying metadata includes a destination field that when interpreted by the monitoring instructions causes the monitoring instructions to send the dummy request to the specified destination e.g. a URL . In such an example at the direction of the monitoring instructions the client device determines the location to send the dummy request based on the destination field of the ID3 tag. Such an example of determining where to send the dummy request based on the destination field of the ID3 tag is disclosed in connection with blocks and of . Alternatively the monitoring instructions for a given service provider may direct the client device to send the dummy request to a pre determined location. That is rather than determining the location based on the destination field of the ID3 tag the location is based on an instruction of the monitoring instructions. In some examples the instruction is a JavaScript instruction implemented by the metadata transmission location determiner . An example of determining where to send the dummy request based on an instruction of the monitoring instructions is disclosed in connection with blocks and of .

The transmitter of the illustrated example of is implemented by a logic circuit such as a processor executing instructions but it could additionally or alternatively be implemented by an analog circuit an ASIC DSP FPGA and or other circuitry. In some examples the media presenter the event listener the metadata retriever the metadata converter the metadata transmission location determiner and the transmitter are implemented by the same physical processor. In the illustrated example the transmitter transmits the media identifying information and or the user identifying information e.g. the user identifiers A B to the database proprietor via for example the Internet. While the media identifying information is transmitted in substantially real time in the illustrated example in some examples the media identifying information is stored cached and or buffered before being transmitted to the database proprietor . Also while the media identifying information is transmitted to the database proprietor in the illustrated example in some examples the media identifying information is transmitted to a different destination such as for example the central facility . Additionally or alternatively the transmitter may transmit a user identifier A B of the browser and or the client device to enable the database proprietor to correlate the media presentation with a user a demographic etc. In some examples the media identifying information is encrypted before transmission by the transmitter . Encrypting the media identifying information prevents the database proprietor from gaining access to information about what media is identified. In some examples the transmitter transmits the operational information retrieved by the metadata retriever along with the media identifying information.

The user identifying information store of the illustrated example is implemented by a memory for storing information e.g. user identifying information cookies etc. The example user identifying information store of the illustrated example of may be any device for storing data such as for example flash memory magnetic media optical media etc. In the illustrated example the user identifying information store is implemented by random access memory of the client device . Furthermore the data stored in the user identifying information store may be in any data format such as for example binary data comma delimited data tab delimited data structured query language SQL structures etc. While in the illustrated example the user identifying information store is illustrated as a single database the user identifying information store may be implemented by multiple databases and or be stored in multiple memory locations of the media device. In the illustrated example each piece of user identifying information is stored in association with a domain. When requests e.g. the dummy request of line of are transmitted only the user identifying information associated with the destination domain is sent.

The HTTP server of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could additionally or alternatively be implemented by an analog circuit an ASIC DSP FPGA and or other circuitry. In the illustrated example the example HTTP server receives requests from the browser that include for example the user identifiers A B and or the media identifying information which may be encrypted identified by the browser . The example HTTP server of responds to the requests from the browser with an HTTP acknowledge message and or an HTTP redirect message. While in the illustrated example the HTTP server communicates using the HTTP protocol any other protocol may additionally and or alternatively be used such as for example the HTTPS protocol the FTP protocol etc.

The user registration data receiver of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could additionally or alternatively be implemented by an analog circuit an ASIC DSP FPGA and or other circuitry. In some examples the user registration data receiver and the HTTP server are implemented by the same physical processor. In the illustrated example the example user registration data receiver receives registration data from the user of the client device . The registration data may include for example demographic information a username geographic information and or any other information associated with the user. In the illustrated example the user registration data receiver receives the registration information from the user via the HTTP server . That is the registration information is received via a network such as for example the Internet. However the user information may be received in any other fashion. For example the user registration data may be received via a telephone call facsimile transmission manual entry etc. the user registration data receiver of the illustrated example of stores the user registration data in the demographic information database .

The demographic information database of the illustrated example is implemented by a memory for storing user registration data e.g. demographic information associated with users . The example demographic information database of the illustrated example of may be any device for storing data such as for example flash memory magnetic media optical media etc. In the illustrated example the demographic information database is implemented by random access memory of the database proprietor . Furthermore the data stored in the demographic information database may be in any data format such as for example binary data comma delimited data tab delimited data structured query language SQL structures etc. While in the illustrated example the demographic information database is illustrated as a single database the demographic information database may be implemented by multiple databases and or be stored in multiple memory locations of the database proprietor .

The user ID comparator of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could additionally or alternatively be implemented by an analog circuit an ASIC DSP FPGA and or other circuitry. In some examples the example user ID comparator the example HTTP server and the example user registration data receiver are implemented by the same physical processor. In the illustrated example the user ID comparator receives the dummy request from the browser via the HTTP server e.g. the dummy request of line of . The dummy request may include the user identifier A B. Accordingly the user ID comparator inspects the request to determine whether the user identifier is present and or if present whether the user identifier can be used to determine a user ID. If the user cannot be identified e.g. the user identifier is unknown or is not present the user ID comparator signals to the HTTP server that the browser should be redirected to a different location e.g. the database proprietor the central facility . If the user can be identified the user ID comparator communicates the media identifying metadata which may be encrypted and the user ID to the metadata database .

The metadata processor of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could additionally or alternatively be implemented by an analog circuit an ASIC DSP FPGA and or other circuitry. In some examples the metadata processor the example HTTP server the example user registration data receiver and the example user ID comparator are implemented by the same physical processor. In the illustrated example the metadata processor stores the user ID identified by the user ID comparator in association with the media identifying metadata which may be encrypted in the metadata database .

The metadata database is implemented by a memory for storing media identifying metadata received from the browser via the dummy request e.g. the request represented by line of . The example metadata database of the illustrated example of may be implemented by any device for storing data such as for example flash memory magnetic media optical media etc. In the illustrated example the metadata database is implemented by random access memory of the database proprietor . Furthermore the data stored in the metadata database may be in any data format such as for example binary data comma delimited data tab delimited data structured query language SQL structures etc. While in the illustrated example the metadata database is illustrated as a single database the metadata database may be implemented by multiple databases and or be stored in multiple memory locations of the database proprietor . Furthermore while in the illustrated example the metadata database and the demographic information database are implemented as separate databases the example metadata database and the example demographic information database may be implemented using a single i.e. the same database.

The metadata transmitter of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could additionally or alternatively be implemented by an analog circuit an ASIC DSP FPGA and or other circuitry. In some examples the example metadata transmitter the example HTTP server the example user registration data receiver the example user ID comparator and the example metadata processor are implemented by the same physical processor. In the illustrated example the metadata transmitter transmits demographic information associated with users to which media identified by the media identifying metadata was presented to the central facility . In the illustrated example the metadata transmitter transmits demographic information and the associated media identifying metadata which may be encrypted when the media has been presented to a threshold number of users. As such the demographic information is aggregated across the users to which the media was presented. However in some examples demographic information is transmitted on an individual basis. In the illustrated example the metadata transmitter transmits the data to the central facility regardless of whether the central facility has requested the data. However in some examples the central facility may request the metadata transmitter to transmit the data.

The HTTP server of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could additionally or alternatively be implemented by an analog circuit an ASIC DSP FPGA and or other circuitry. In the illustrated example the example HTTP server receives requests from the browser that include for example the user identifiers A B and or the media identifying information which may be encrypted identified by the browser . The example HTTP server of responds to the requests from the browser with an HTTP acknowledge message and or an HTTP redirect message. While in the illustrated example the HTTP server communicates using the HTTP protocol any other protocol may additionally and or alternatively be used such as for example the HTTPS protocol the FTP protocol etc.

The user registration data receiver of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could additionally or alternatively be implemented by an analog circuit an ASIC DSP FPGA and or other circuitry. In some examples the user registration data receiver and the HTTP server are implemented by the same physical processor. In the illustrated example the example user registration data receiver receives registration data from the user of the client device . The registration data may include for example demographic information a username geographic information and or any other information associated with the user. In the illustrated example the user registration data receiver receives the registration information from the user via the HTTP server . That is the registration information is received via a network such as for example the Internet. However the user information may be received in any other fashion. For example the user registration data may be received via a telephone call facsimile transmission manual entry etc. the user registration data receiver of the illustrated example of stores the user registration data in the demographic information database .

The demographic information database of the illustrated example is implemented by a memory for storing user registration data e.g. demographic information associated with users . The example demographic information database of the illustrated example of may be any device for storing data such as for example flash memory magnetic media optical media etc. In the illustrated example the demographic information database is implemented by random access memory of the central facility . Furthermore the data stored in the demographic information database may be in any data format such as for example binary data comma delimited data tab delimited data structured query language SQL structures etc. While in the illustrated example the demographic information database is illustrated as a single database the demographic information database may be implemented by multiple databases and or be stored in multiple memory locations of the central facility .

The user ID comparator of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could additionally or alternatively be implemented by an analog circuit an ASIC DSP FPGA and or other circuitry. In some examples the example user ID comparator the example HTTP server and the example user registration data receiver are implemented by the same physical processor. In the illustrated example the user ID comparator receives the dummy request from the browser via the HTTP server e.g. the dummy request of line of . The dummy request may include the user identifier A B. Accordingly the user ID comparator inspects the request to determine whether the user identifier is present and or if present whether the user identifier can be used to determine a user ID. If the user cannot be identified e.g. the user identifier is unknown or is not present in the request the user ID comparator signals to the HTTP server that the browser should be redirected to a different location e.g. the database proprietor the central facility . If the user can be identified the user ID comparator communicates the media identifying metadata which may be encrypted and the user ID to the metadata database .

The metadata processor of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could additionally or alternatively be implemented by an analog circuit an ASIC DSP FPGA and or other circuitry. In some examples the metadata processor the example HTTP server the example user registration data receiver and the example user ID comparator are implemented by the same physical processor. In the illustrated example the metadata processor stores the user ID identified by the user ID comparator in association with the media identifying metadata which may be encrypted in the metadata database .

The metadata database is implemented by a memory for storing media identifying metadata received from the browser via the dummy request e.g. the request represented by line of . Moreover the example metadata database store demographic information and metadata received from the database proprietor via the data receiver . The example metadata database of the illustrated example of may be implemented by any device for storing data such as for example flash memory magnetic media optical media etc. In the illustrated example the metadata database is implemented by random access memory of the central facility . Furthermore the data stored in the metadata database may be in any data format such as for example binary data comma delimited data tab delimited data structured query language SQL structures etc. While in the illustrated example the metadata database is illustrated as a single database the metadata database may be implemented by multiple databases and or be stored in multiple memory locations of the central facility . Furthermore while in the illustrated example the metadata database and the demographic information database are implemented as separate databases the example metadata database and the example demographic information database may be implemented using a single i.e. the same database.

The metadata instructor of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could additionally or alternatively be implemented by an analog circuit an ASIC DSP FPGA and or other circuitry. In some examples the metadata instructor the example metadata processor the example HTTP server the example user registration data receiver and the example user ID comparator are implemented by the same physical processor. In the illustrated example the example metadata instructor of the example central facility instructs the metadata embedder and or more generally the service provider to embed a tag in media to be streamed. In the illustrated example the metadata embedder instructs the metadata embedder to format the tag as an ID3 tag. The tag is to cause a client device e.g. the browser and or more generally the client device to send a message to the central facility .

The data receiver of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could additionally or alternatively be implemented by an analog circuit an ASIC DSP FPGA and or other circuitry. In some examples the data receiver the example metadata processor the example HTTP server the example user registration data receiver and the example user ID comparator are implemented by the same physical processor. The example data receiver of the illustrated example of receives metadata and demographic information from the database proprietor . is a block diagram of an example implementation of an example HLS stream that may be displayed by the example media presenter of . In the illustrated example of the HLS stream includes a manifest and three transport streams. In the illustrated example the manifest is an .m3u8 file that describes the available transport streams to the client device. However any other past present and or future file format may additionally or alternatively be used. In the illustrated example the client device retrieves the manifest in response to an instruction to display an HLS element.

HLS is an adaptive format in that although multiple devices retrieve the same manifest different transport streams may be displayed depending on one or more factors. For example devices having different bandwidth availabilities e.g. a high speed Internet connection a low speed Internet connection etc. and or different display abilities e.g. a small size screen such as a cellular phone a medium size screen such as a tablet and or a laptop computer a large size screen such as a television etc. select an appropriate transport stream for their display and or bandwidth abilities. In some examples a cellular phone having a small screen and limited bandwidth uses a low resolution transport stream. Alternatively in some examples a television having a large screen and a high speed Internet connection uses a high resolution transport stream. As the abilities of the device change e.g. the device moves from a high speed Internet connection to a low speed Internet connection the device may switch to a different transport stream.

In the illustrated example of a high resolution transport stream a medium resolution transport stream and a low resolution transport stream are shown. In the illustrated example each transport stream and or represents a portion of the associated media e.g. five seconds ten seconds thirty seconds one minute etc. . Accordingly the high resolution transport stream corresponds to a first portion of the media a second high resolution transport stream corresponds to a second portion of the media a third high resolution transport stream corresponds to a third portion of the media. Likewise the medium resolution transport stream corresponds to the first portion of the media a second medium resolution transport stream corresponds to the second portion of the media and a third medium resolution transport stream corresponds to the third portion of the media. In addition the low resolution transport stream corresponds to the first portion of the media a second low resolution transport stream corresponds to the second portion of the media and a third low resolution transport stream corresponds to the third portion of the media. Although three transport streams are shown in the illustrated example of for each resolution any number of transport streams representing any number of corresponding portions of the media may additionally or alternatively be used.

In the illustrated example each transport stream and or includes a video stream an audio stream and a metadata stream . The video stream and or includes video associated with the media at different resolutions according to the resolution of the transport stream with which the video stream is associated. The audio stream and or includes audio associated with the media. The metadata stream and or includes metadata such as for example an ID3 tag associated with the media.

In examples disclosed herein the ID3 tag is formatted as an ID3v2 tag. However any other type and or format of metadata and or metadata container may additionally or alternatively be used. In the illustrated example the media identifying information is stored in a private frame of the ID3 tag. However the media identifying information may be stored in any other location. The media identifying information of the illustrated example includes a destination domain name and a textual version of the audio watermark identified by the media identifier of . In the illustrated example the audio watermark is stored in a base 64 encrypted format. However the watermark may be stored in any other fashion. Furthermore while in the illustrated example the ID3 tag includes the destination domain name and the audio watermark any other information may additionally or alternatively be included in the ID3 tag such as for example an identifier of the media provider an identifier of the service provider an identifier of the central facility etc.

While an example manner of implementing the example service provider of and or A the example browser of and or the example central facility of and or A and or the example database proprietor of and or are illustrated in and or A one or more of the elements processes and or devices illustrated in and or A may be combined divided re arranged omitted eliminated and or implemented in any other way. Further the example media identifier the example transcoder the example metadata embedder the example media transmitter and or more generally the example service provider of and or A the example media presenter the example event listener the example metadata retriever the example metadata converter the example metadata transmission location determiner the example transmitter the example user identifying information store and or more generally the example browser of and or the example HTTP server the example user registration data receiver the example demographic information database the example user ID comparator the example metadata processor the example metadata database the example metadata instructor the example data receiver and or more generally the example central facility of and or A and or the example HTTP server the example user registration data receiver the example demographic information database the example user ID comparator the example metadata processor the example metadata database the example metadata transmitter and or more generally the example database proprietor of and or may be implemented by hardware software firmware and or any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Thus for example any of the example media identifier the example transcoder the example metadata embedder the example media transmitter and or more generally the example service provider of and or A the example media presenter the example event listener the example metadata retriever the example metadata converter the example metadata transmission location determiner the example transmitter the example user identifying information store and or more generally the example browser of and or the example HTTP server the example user registration data receiver the example demographic information database the example user ID comparator the example metadata processor the example metadata database the example metadata instructor the example data receiver and or more generally the example central facility of and or A and or the example HTTP server the example user registration data receiver the example demographic information database the example user ID comparator the example metadata processor the example metadata database the example metadata transmitter and or more generally the example database proprietor of and or could be implemented by one or more analog or digital circuit s logic circuits programmable processor s application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s and or field programmable logic device s FPLD s . When reading any of the apparatus or system claims of this patent to cover a purely software and or firmware implementation at least one of the example media identifier the example transcoder the example metadata embedder the example media transmitter and or more generally the example service provider of and or A the example media presenter the example event listener the example metadata retriever the example metadata converter the example metadata transmission location determiner the example transmitter the example user identifying information store and or more generally the example browser of and or the example HTTP server the example user registration data receiver the example demographic information database the example user ID comparator the example metadata processor the example metadata database the example metadata instructor the example data receiver and or more generally the example central facility of and or A and or the example HTTP server the example user registration data receiver the example demographic information database the example user ID comparator the example metadata processor the example metadata database the example metadata transmitter and or more generally the example database proprietor of and or is are hereby expressly defined to include a tangible computer readable storage device or storage disk such as a memory a digital versatile disk DVD a compact disk CD a Blu ray disk etc. storing the software and or firmware. Further still the example service provider of and or A the example browser of and or the example central facility of and or A and or the example database proprietor of and or may include one or more elements processes and or devices in addition to or instead of those illustrated in and or A and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated elements processes and devices.

Flowcharts representative of example machine readable instructions for implementing the example service provider of and or A the example browser of and or the example central facility of and or A and or the example database proprietor of and or are shown in and or . In these examples the machine readable instructions comprise a program s for execution by a processor such as the processor shown in the example processor platform discussed below in connection with . The program may be embodied in software stored on a tangible computer readable storage medium such as a CD ROM a floppy disk a hard drive a digital versatile disk DVD a Blu ray disk or a memory associated with the processor but the entire program and or parts thereof could alternatively be executed by a device other than the processor and or embodied in firmware or dedicated hardware. Further although the example program is described with reference to the flowchart s illustrated in and or many other methods of implementing the example service provider of and or A the example browser of and or the example central facility of and or A and or the example database proprietor of and or may alternatively be used. For example the order of execution of the blocks may be changed and or some of the blocks described may be changed eliminated or combined.

As mentioned above the example processes of and or may be implemented using coded instructions e.g. computer and or machine readable instructions stored on a tangible computer readable storage medium such as a hard disk drive a flash memory a read only memory ROM a compact disk CD a digital versatile disk DVD a cache a random access memory RAM and or any other storage device or storage disk in which information is stored for any duration e.g. for extended time periods permanently for brief instances for temporarily buffering and or for caching of the information . As used herein the term tangible computer readable storage medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable storage device and or storage disk and to exclude propagating signals and transmission media. As used herein tangible computer readable storage medium and tangible machine readable storage medium are used interchangeably. Additionally or alternatively the example processes of and or may be implemented using coded instructions e.g. computer and or machine readable instructions stored on a non transitory computer and or machine readable medium such as a hard disk drive a flash memory a read only memory a compact disk a digital versatile disk a cache a random access memory and or any other storage device or storage disk in which information is stored for any duration e.g. for extended time periods permanently for brief instances for temporarily buffering and or for caching of the information . As used herein the term non transitory computer readable medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable storage device and or storage disk and to exclude propagating signals and transmission media. As used herein when the phrase at least is used as the transition term in a preamble of a claim it is open ended in the same manner as the term comprising is open ended.

The media identifier of the illustrated example then identifies the media block . The media identifier identifies the media by extracting metering data e.g. signatures watermarks etc. from the media. Based on the extracted metering data the media identifier generates metadata block . In the illustrated example the metadata is generated in an ID3 format. However any other metadata format may additionally or alternatively be used. Further in the illustrated example the metadata is generated based on the extracted metering data. However in some examples the metadata may be generated by querying an external source using some or all of the extracted metering data.

The media is then transcoded by the transcoder of the service provider block . In the illustrated example the media is transcoded into an MPEG2 transport stream that may be transmitted via HTTP live streaming HLS . The metadata embedder of the service provider embeds the metadata into the media block . In some examples the metadata is encrypted prior to being embedded into the media. In the illustrated example the metadata is embedded into a metadata channel of the media. However in some examples the metadata may be embedded in an ancillary data document file etc. that may be associated with the media. For example the metadata may be embedded in a manifest file e.g. an M3U8 file in a text track associated with the media etc.

The media is then transmitted by the media transmitter of the service provider block . In the illustrated example the media is transmitted using HTTP live streaming HLS . However any other format and or protocol for transmitting e.g. broadcasting unicasting multicasting etc. media may additionally or alternatively be used.

The event listener of the browser begins listening for an event block . In the illustrated example the event listener listens for a JavaScript event triggered by the media presenter . However in some examples the event listener listens for any other event s such as for example a media change event a user interaction event e.g. when a user clicks on an object a display event e.g. a page load etc. If the event listener does not detect an event the event listener continues to listen for the event until for example the browser is closed a different webpage is loaded etc.

If the event listener detects an event the metadata retriever of the browser retrieves the metadata block . In the illustrated example the event listener passes an event object to the metadata retriever which inspects the event object to retrieve the metadata. However in some examples the event listener passes an identifier of an object e.g. the media presenter display object which indicates the object from which the metadata retriever is to retrieve metadata. In the illustrated example the metadata retriever inspects a document object module DOM object to retrieve the metadata. However in some examples the metadata retriever inspects for example a timed text track a metadata stream of the HLS media etc. to retrieve the metadata. In the illustrated example the metadata is formatted as an ID3 tag. However any other format of metadata may additionally or alternatively be used. In some examples the metadata retriever retrieves operational information about the media presenter and or more generally the browser . The retrieved operational information may include for example information about whether the media presenter is fully or partially visible e.g. the media presenter is fully viewable the media presenter is 50 viewable the media presenter is not viewable etc. information about whether the media presenter is in the foreground or background etc.

The metadata converter of the browser then converts the metadata block into a format for use by the transmitter of the browser . In the illustrated example the metadata is converted from a binary data format into a text format. In some examples the metadata is parsed to identify portions e.g. fields sections etc. of interest of the metadata e.g. a genre an artist a song title an album name a transmitting station server site etc. . In some examples the metadata converter encrypts the metadata. Encrypting the metadata prevents third parties e.g. the database proprietor from identifying the media while still permitting logging of impressions for association with demographics. In the illustrated example the metadata converter adds a timestamp to the metadata prior to transmitting the metadata to the database proprietor . Timestamping e.g. recording a time that an event occurred enables accurate identification and or correlation of media that was presented and or the time that it was presented with the user s of the presentation device.

In some examples the metadata may not undergo conversion before transmission by the transmitter e.g. the metadata may be sent in the format in which it is retrieved by the metadata retriever . In such examples the database proprietor and or the central facility converts the metadata by for example converting the metadata to a different format parsing the metadata to identify portions of interest of the metadata decrypting the metadata etc. Conversion of the metadata by the database proprietor and or the central facility facilitates correlation of the media that was presented with an identifier identifying to whom the media was presented. In some examples the database proprietor and or the central facility timestamps the metadata upon receipt. Timestamping the metadata enables accurate identification and or correlation of media that was presented and or the time that it was presented with the user s of the presentation device.

The metadata transmission location determiner of the browser then determines a location to which the metadata should be transmitted block . In the illustrated example the location is determined based on a domain name included in the ID3 tag. However any other way of determining a location to transmit metadata may additionally or alternatively be used. An example process for determining the location to transmit the metadata is disclosed in connection with below.

The transmitter then transmits the metadata to the location identified by the metadata transmission location determiner block . In the illustrated example the metadata is transmitted using an HTTP Post request. However any other method of transmitting data and or metadata may additionally or alternatively be used. For example a file transfer protocol FTP instruction an HTTP Get request an Asynchronous JavaScript and extensible markup language XML AJAX message etc. may be used to transmit the metadata. In some examples the metadata is not transmitted to the database proprietor and or the central facility . For example the metadata may be transmitted to a display object of the client device for display to a user. In the illustrated example the metadata is transmitted in real time e.g. streamed to the database proprietor . However in some examples the metadata may be stored e.g. cached buffered etc. for a period of time before being transmitted to the database proprietor . In some examples the transmitter transmits the operational data retrieved by the metadata retriever from the media presenter . Transmitting the operational information enables the audience measurement entity to compute additional media presentation metrics e.g. whether users listen to streaming audio with the media presenter in the background etc. .

However in some examples the ID3 tag does not identify the location to transmit the metadata. If the ID3 tag does not identify the location to transmit the metadata block the example metadata transmission location determiner determines whether the service provider identifies the location transmit the metadata block . In some examples the service provider when implementing the SDK associated with the monitoring instructions implemented by the browser specifies a database proprietor to which the metadata should be transmitted. In such an example the metadata transmission location determiner uses the location identified by the service provider block to determine the destination of the dummy request.

In some examples neither the metadata nor the service provider may identify the location where the metadata should be transmitted blocks . In such an example the metadata transmission location determiner uses a default location to transmit the metadata block to determine the destination of the dummy request. The default location may be for example a preferred database proprietor such as for example Facebook Twitter Experian etc. In some examples the default location may be the central facility . The example machine readable instructions of then terminate and the transmitter of proceeds to transmit the metadata and user identifier associated with the destination via the dummy request block of .

If the user identifier data can be used to identify the user block the user ID comparator determines the user identifier block . The metadata processor then stores the received metadata and the associated user identifier in the metadata database . block . In the illustrated example the metadata processor stores the media identifying metadata e.g. the ID3 tag and the user identifier. When storing the metadata and the user identifier the metadata processor may store an impression record in a similar fashion to for example the table of . In some examples the metadata processor stores a timestamp to facilitate identification of the time of presentation of the media.

The HTTP server then transmits an acknowledgment message to the requesting client block . Transmitting the acknowledgment message notifies the requesting client e.g. the browser that no further action need be taken with respect to the dummy request. In some examples the database proprietor sends a redirect message instructing the browser to contact a second database proprietor even if the database proprietor was able to identify the user. Such redirection may enable different database proprietors who may store different types of demographic data e.g. financial data geographic data etc. to collect a larger data set of demographic data than could be collected by a single database proprietor.

In the illustrated example of the example table includes a first row of impression data a second row of impression data a third row of impression data a fourth row of impression data and a fifth row of impression data. However any other number of records may additionally or alternatively be stored. For example the example table may include ten thousand rows of data corresponding to ten thousand recorded impressions. In the illustrated example of the first example row identifies that a first media was presented to a first user e.g. media 0001 was presented to user A . The second example row identifies that the first media was presented to a second user. The third example row identifies that the first media was presented to a third user. The fourth example row identifies that a second media was presented to the first user. The fifth example row identifies that the second media was presented to a fourth user. In some examples the media identifier e.g. media 0001 is encrypted so that the database proprietor can determine that the media identifier corresponds to the same media but cannot determine the identity of the media.

In the illustrated example four user records are shown. A first user record represents user A. A second user record represents user B. A third user record represents user C. A fourth record represents user D. While in the illustrated example of four user records are shown any other number of records may additionally or alternatively be used. For example the database proprietor may store fifty thousand records respectively associated with fifth thousand users.

The example table of includes a first column representing the media identifier. The example table includes a second column representing a count e.g. a sum of the number of users exposed to the media identified by the media identifier of the first column who are under the age of twenty. The example table includes a third column representing a count e.g. a sum of the number of users exposed to the media identified by the media identifier of the first column who are between the ages of twenty and forty. The example table includes a fourth column representing a count e.g. a sum of the number of users exposed to the media identified by the media identifier of the first column who are between the ages of forty and sixty. The example table includes a fifth column representing a count e.g. a sum of the number of users exposed to the media identified by the media identifier of the first column who are over the age of sixty. While in the illustrated example ages are divided into ranges of twenty years any other range e.g. one year two years five years ten years etc. may be used.

In the illustrated example of the example table includes a sixth column representing a count e.g. a sum of the number of users exposed to the media identified by the media identifier of the first column who have an income under forty thousand dollars per year. The example table includes a seventh column representing a count e.g. a sum of the number of users exposed to the media identified by the media identifier of the first column who have an income between forty thousand and eighty thousand dollars per year. The example table includes an eighth column representing a count e.g. a sum of the number of users exposed to the media identified by the media identifier of the first column who have an income over eighty thousand dollars per year. While in the illustrated example incomes are divided into ranges of forty thousand dollars any other ranges and or divisions may additionally or alternatively be used. Furthermore while in the illustrated example of demographic information for age and income is aggregated any other demographic information may additionally or alternatively be aggregated. Further although age and income are shown separately other combinations are possible e.g. persons age 40 60 with income from 40 k 60 k per year .

If data has been received from a sufficient number of database proprietors block the metadata processor aggregates the demographic data from the database proprietor s block . The metadata processor then generates a media presentation report based on the metadata and the aggregated demographic information block .

The processor platform of the illustrated example includes a processor . The processor of the illustrated example is hardware. For example the processor can be implemented by one or more integrated circuits logic circuits microprocessors or controllers from any desired family or manufacturer.

The processor of the illustrated example includes a local memory e.g. a cache . The processor of the illustrated example is in communication with a main memory including a volatile memory and a non volatile memory via a bus . The volatile memory may be implemented by Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory SDRAM Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM RAMBUS Dynamic Random Access Memory RDRAM and or any other type of random access memory device. The non volatile memory may be implemented by flash memory and or any other desired type of memory device. Access to the main memory is controlled by a memory controller.

The processor platform of the illustrated example also includes an interface circuit . The interface circuit may be implemented by any type of interface standard such as an Ethernet interface a universal serial bus USB and or a PCI express interface.

In the illustrated example one or more input devices are connected to the interface circuit . The input device s permit s a user to enter data and commands into the processor . The input device s can be implemented by for example an audio sensor a microphone a camera still or video a keyboard a button a mouse a touchscreen a track pad a trackball isopoint and or a voice recognition system.

One or more output devices are also connected to the interface circuit of the illustrated example. The output devices can be implemented for example by display devices e.g. a light emitting diode LED an organic light emitting diode OLED a liquid crystal display a cathode ray tube display CRT a touchscreen a tactile output device a light emitting diode LED a printer and or speakers . The interface circuit of the illustrated example thus typically includes a graphics driver card a graphics driver chip or a graphics driver processor.

The interface circuit of the illustrated example also includes a communication device such as a transmitter a receiver a transceiver a modem and or network interface card to facilitate exchange of data with external machines e.g. computing devices of any kind via a network e.g. an Ethernet connection a digital subscriber line DSL a telephone line coaxial cable a cellular telephone system etc. .

The processor platform of the illustrated example also includes one or more mass storage devices for storing software and or data. Examples of such mass storage devices include floppy disk drives hard drive disks compact disk drives Blu ray disk drives RAID systems and digital versatile disk DVD drives.

The coded instructions of and or may be stored in the mass storage device in the volatile memory in the non volatile memory and or on a removable tangible computer readable storage medium such as a CD or DVD.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that the above disclosed methods apparatus and articles of manufacture enable monitoring of media presentations and association of demographic information provided by one or more database proprietors with the same. In particular media identifying metadata which may be encrypted and or formatted as an ID3 tag and user identifying information is transmitted to database proprietors by client devices in response to detecting a media presentation. The database proprietors aggregate demographic information based on the user identifying information in association with the presented media and report the demographic information and the media identifying information to an audience measurement entity.

Although certain example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been disclosed herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. On the contrary this patent covers all methods apparatus and articles of manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the claims of this patent.

