---

title: Character model animation using stored recordings of player movement interface data
abstract: Technologies are generally described for providing full-motion animation-as-a-service. In some examples, short motion-capture segments may be captured from user motion user interface devices and stored in a database. When a full-motion animation is desired, a start pose and a target pose may be provided, and a multiple-path, multiple-iteration search through the database may be used to assemble the full-motion animation. Motion retargeting may be used to further refine the assembled hill-motion animation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09610496&OS=09610496&RS=09610496
owner: EMPIRE TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT LLC
number: 09610496
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160111
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 876 160 filed on Mar. 26 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 266 020 which is the U.S. national stage filing under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application No. PCT US12 57485 filed on Sep. 27 2012. The U.S. Patent Application and International Application are herein incorporated by reference in their entireties.

Unless otherwise indicated herein the materials described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Motion capture may often be used to create realistic animation. Because human motion may be complex yet inherently familiar to human observers it may be difficult to produce believable human motion using current model and kinetics based model animation techniques. Additionally a skilled animator may produce 2 5 seconds of animation per character per day whereas motion capture may provide 5 minutes or more of usable motion per day. However even 15 minutes per day of motion capture may make it expensive to add broad motion capture usage to media such as video games. Some games may include hundreds of characters each with dozens of motions. Animating these motions may involve great expense.

In addition some games or virtual environments with large scale immersive worlds may contain hundreds of characters each having thousands of possible actions many of which may be dynamically generated based on semi unique positions and conditions. Animating all of these motions may be cost prohibitive. Using the same animation for multiple characters and or motions may be undesirable because game consumers may easily recognize reused motions. Therefore unique motions or variations between repeated motions may be desired which may drive expenses even higher.

The present disclosure generally describes techniques for animating character models using stored recordings of player movement interface data.

According to some examples a system for providing searchable short motion sequences to game developers includes a communication module and a server. The communication module may be configured to receive captured motion of multiple users through one or more capture devices. The server may be configured to generate searchable quantizations of short motion sequences from the captured motion combine the searchable quantizations in a database and render the searchable quantizations available to game developers from the database through searches for building assembled motion.

According to other examples a method for providing searchable short motion sequences to game developers includes receiving captured motion of multiple users through one or more capture devices generating searchable quantizations of short motion sequences from the captured motion combining the searchable quantizations in a database and rendering the searchable quantizations available to game developers from the database through searches for building assembled motion.

According to further examples a system for providing assembled motion segments from searchable quantizations of short motion sequences derived from captured motions may include a communication module a database and a server. The communication module may be configured to receive search requests from one or more requesters and provide the assembled motion segments to the requesters. The database may be configured to store the quantizations of short motion sequences derived from captured motions of multiple users. The server may be configured to receive start and end positions for a requested motion search the database from each end of a target motion assemble steps of the requested motion if the short motion sequences of the target motion join otherwise search for new points within the target motion and provide the assembled motion to a requester if the requested motion is assembled.

According to yet further examples a method for providing assembled motion segments from searchable quantizations of short motion sequences derived from captured motions may include receiving a search request from a requester where the search request includes start and end positions for a requested motion searching a database from each end of a target motion where the database is configured to store the quantizations of short motion sequences derived from captured motions of multiple users assembling steps of the requested motion if the short motion sequences of the target motion join otherwise searching for new points within the target motion and providing the assembled motion to a requester if the requested motion is assembled.

According to some examples a computer readable medium may store instructions for providing searchable short motion sequences to game developers. The instructions may include receiving captured motion of multiple users through one or more capture devices generating searchable quantizations of short motion sequences from the captured motion combining the searchable quantizations in a database and rendering the searchable quantizations available to game developers from the database through searches for building assembled motion.

According to other examples a computer readable storage medium may store instructions for providing assembled motion segments from searchable quantizations of short motion sequences derived from captured motions. The instructions may include receiving a search request from a requester where the search request includes start and end positions for a requested motion searching a database from each end of a target motion where the database is configured to store the quantizations of short motion sequences derived from captured motions of multiple users assembling steps of the requested motion if the short motion sequences of the target motion join otherwise searching for new points within the target motion and providing the assembled motion to a requester if the requested motion is assembled.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the Figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

This disclosure is generally drawn inter alia to methods apparatus systems devices and or computer program products related to providing character model animation using stored recordings of player movement interface data.

Briefly stated technologies are generally described for providing full motion animation as a service. In some examples short motion capture segments may be captured from user motion user interface devices and stored in a database. When a full motion animation is desired a start pose and a target pose may be provided and a multiple path multiple iteration search through the database may be used to assemble the full motion animation. Motion retargeting may be used to further refine the assembled full motion animation.

For example developers of games that use three dimensional characters avatars and items may wish to make character movements seem natural. Physics based rules also known as marionette physics may be used to generate motions relatively and inexpensively. Unfortunately motions generated via such rules may seem unnatural to a human observer. Therefore motion capture may be used to generate movements that are realistic. However motion capture has its own problems. Movements based on motion capture may be expensive to generate and also difficult to reuse in a natural manner because observers may easily recognize repetitive movements as being unnatural.

One potentially cost effective way to generate motion capture movements may be to combine short motion sequences together. Short motion sequences may be individually unsuitable for animating characters. However a series of short motion sequences may be combined into a longer motion sequence suitable for animating characters. As networked motion capture devices e.g. public cameras or home game systems become more prevalent significant numbers of short motion sequences may be captured and stored in a cloud environment. The stored short motion sequences or longer motion sequences assembled from the short motion sequences may then be offered to game developers as a service.

As shown in a diagram a figure model may include a number of tracking points . The figure model may represent a human as reflected in its humanoid form in or may represent an animal a robot or any other entity capable of movement. The tracking points correspond to joints or specific locations on the represented entity and may be selected such that particular poses i.e. arrangements or configurations of the entity s various appendages of the entity may be described by the positions and or orientations of the tracking points . As a result any movement or motion of the entity may also be described by the trajectories i.e. changes in position of the tracking points . For example a motion plot may depict the trajectory of one particular tracking point in the tracking points . In some embodiments the motion plot may include the trajectories of multiple tracking points in the tracking points .

The motion plot while depicted in as a two dimensional plot is not so limited. For example the motion plot may track the motion of tracking points in one two or three spatial dimensions. In some embodiments the motion plot may track the motion of tracking points in one or more spatial dimensions as a function of time. For example the two dimensional motion plot shown in may track the motion of tracking points in a particular spatial direction on a vertical axis and may track time on a horizontal axis. Similarly while the tracked trajectories are depicted graphically in the motion plot it should be understood that trajectory information may be tracked with any suitable data format such as absolute coordinates relative coordinates and or parametric coordinates.

In some embodiments the motion plot may be quantized into one or more short motion segments . A particular short motion segment may contain a portion of the tracked motion data in the motion plot . The granularity of the quantization may be based on desired time duration desired range or extent of motion orientation position timing velocity acceleration or on any other suitable parameter.

As shown in a diagram a process for generating searchable short motion sequences may include a block in which motions may be captured from one or more users. Motions may be captured via any suitable motion capture device such as a video camera or a motion capture user interface. The motion capture may be performed in a public setting e.g. an outdoor space a public thoroughfare within a store or public establishment or in a private setting e.g. in a residence in an office or in a workplace . In some embodiments identifying characteristics may be removed from the captured motion such that individual users cannot be identified. Subsequently in a block the captured motion may be processed to generate searchable quantizations of motion for example as described in . In a block the searchable quantizations may then be used to form a database of motion captures. In some embodiments the searchable quantizations in the database may be searchable by pose action duration or any other parameter or characteristic of the quantizations of motion. The searchable quantizations may also be searchable by character features such as size proportions weight inertia movement style or any other characteristic associated with a character. In some embodiments the different searchable quantizations may be filtered to remove or isolate undesirable motion segments from the captured motion. For example motion segments containing rude or obscene gestures or movements may be undesirable and therefore be removed or isolated from the database .

As shown in a diagram an entity may wish to obtain a full motion animation of a character where the animation has a predefined start pose position and a predefined end post position. The predefined positions may be at varying levels of specification or precision for example some limbs or elements may be weakly specified or unspecified. The entity may be a process executing on a computer or computing device of for example a game developer service a film producing service or the like. In some embodiments the entity may also provide other constraints for the animation such as time duration desired or undesired orientations or trajectories or any other suitable constraint. The entity may provide this constraint data to an animation service e.g. an animation as a service AaaS provider for example via an application programming interface API . The animation service may then use the constraint data and one or more databases of searchable quantizations of motions e.g. the database in to create the desired full motion animation as described below in further detail in . The completed animation may be provided to the entity which may then perform an additional motion manipulation in order to refine the match between the received animation and the character also described below in further detail.

In some examples captured motion may be normalized to an established scale. Such normalization may make searching for short motion sequences easier.

As depicted in a diagram a process for providing a full motion animation may begin with a block in which information about the start and end positions of a requested motion capture animation may be provided by an entity requesting animation such as a game developer a film producer or the like. In some embodiments the information may include starting and ending positions poses orientations and or any other information related to the starting and ending states of the desired full motion animation. As described above in some embodiments other constraint information may be provided by the game developer or film producer such as a desired time duration desired or undesired orientations or trajectories or any other suitable constraint information.

In a next block the received start and end position information may be used to begin the assembly of the requested full motion animation by a provider of animation as a service AaaS e.g. animation service or a consolidator with access to one or more databases of short motion captures. Specifically multiple path multiple iteration bidirectional searches based on the start and end position information described below may be performed on the databases of short motion segments. In some embodiments the short motion segments include searchable quantizations of motion sequences captured from multiple users as described above in relation to .

In a block searches for short motion segments in the database that match the desired start and end positions may be performed by the provider of AaaS or the consolidator. For example positions may be represented by letters i.e. A or B and motion segments are represented by sequences of letters i.e. ADFYE . Furthermore the desired start position may be K and the desired end position may be V . A search may be performed for a short motion segment that includes the desired start position K but does not end with it i.e. JKB satisfies this condition but JBK does not . Another search may be performed for a short motion segment that includes the desired end position V but does not start with it i.e. HVL satisfies this condition but VHL does not . In some embodiments the searches may also be constrained by other parameters. For example if the requested full motion animation is for a character with particular character features e.g. weight size inertia movement style etc. the searches may be filtered to remove results that do not have those desired character features.

Once segments have been found that satisfy the desired start and end positions in a block the AaaS provider or the consolidator may determine if the segments join together. For example using the scenario described above segment JKBX satisfies the start position criterion and segment OHVL satisfies the end position criterion. However segment JKBX may not be able to join with the segment OHVL because they do not share positions that match i.e. none of the positions in JKBX after the required starting position of K which includes B and X match positions in OHVL before the required ending position of V which includes O and H . If it is determined that the found segments do not join then in a block the AaaS provider or the consolidator may set non matching joinable positions of the previously found segments as new desired start and end positions in a block . For example B and X may be set as the new desired start positions and O and H set as the new desired end positions. The process may revert back to the block where a new iteration of the search is performed as described above. In this case the previously found segments e.g. JKBX and OHVL may be retained for later use when sufficient segments that join together have been found to create the entire requested full motion animation.

If the previous example is followed the new desired start position may be either B or X and the new end position may be either O or H . When a new search is performed in block with these new positions two new segments ABCDE which satisfies one of the new desired start positions and DEFGH which satisfies one of the new desired end positions may be found according to an example scenario. In a subsequent block the AaaS provider or the consolidator may determine whether the two new segments join. In this case both D and E may provide potential joining positions. Therefore it may be determined that the two segments do join.

After determining that the two segments ABCDE and DEFGH join in block the AaaS provider or the consolidator may assemble the two segments together. In some embodiments the segments may be shortened to remove portions before the desired start position and after the desired end position. In this example B is the desired start position so the position A may be removed from the first segment. H is the desired end position so no change may be made to the second segment. The shortened segments may then be subsequently joined to form a combined segment BCDEFGH in the case above . In some embodiments the segments may first be joined before portions are removed. For example the first and second segments may be joined to form ABCDEFGH before A is removed. In some examples multiple starts and ends may be maintained based on multiple results of earlier searches.

In a block the AaaS provider or the consolidator may also join any previously found segments to a newly combined segment. For example the start and end positions of the segment BCDEFGH were originally derived from the later part of segment JKBX and the beginning part of segment OHVL . In this case the segments may be further combined and portions removed to form a combined segment KBCDEFGHV which also has the originally requested start and end positions K and V respectively .

Subsequently in a block the AaaS provider or the consolidator may determine which of the joined segment combinations make up full motions from start to end target motion and discard the others. The process may move from the block to the block where the assembled full motion animation may be manipulated and mapped to a target character by the AaaS provider or the consolidator. As mentioned above multiple starts and ends may be maintained based on multiple results of earlier searches. Alternatively a separate entity such as the requesting game developer or film producer may perform the smoothing and mapping. In some embodiments motion retargeting may be used to perform the animation smoothing and mapping. Motion retargeting may allow motions to be customized based on certain properties of the target model or entity in order to make the motions seem natural. For example two entities having different dimensions e.g. size height weight etc. may naturally perform motions differently. Motion retargeting may then be used to customize the same full motion animation in one way for one entity and in another way for the second entity such that the animation appears natural for both entities. In cases where the assembled full motion animation includes short motion segments captured from entities having different dimensions motion retargeting may be used on the individual segments to make the entire assembled animation appear consistent. In some embodiments short motion sequences stored in the database may include associated dimensions for the user from which the short motion sequence was captured in order to facilitate the use of motion retargeting.

In some embodiments a convolution technique e.g. Fast Fourier Transform or Schoenhage Strassen algorithm may be used to smooth the assembled animation in the block and or in the block . For example multiple overlapping motion segments may be convolved together in the block in lieu of or in addition to the joining process described above.

While in the above example the animation assembly process resulted in a single solution in other cases the assembly process may be configured to result in multiple different full motion animations that all satisfy the requester requirements. In such cases the full motion animation provided to the requester may be selected randomly or probabilistically. Finally in a block the game developer or the film producer may use the full motion animation to animate the target character.

As shown in the system a user may interact with a motion capture device by for example using gestures or other body movements in some embodiments the motion capture device may be a public motion capture device e.g. a video camera in a public location or a personal motion capture device e.g. a portable video camera . In other embodiments the motion capture device may be part of a game system and the user may play a game or interact with a virtual environment by using gestures or body movements to interact with the game system. The motion capture device may then capture the user s body movements and convert the captured motion into commands for the game or the virtual environment.

The motion of the user captured by the motion capture device may be transmitted to and stored on a cloud server . Subsequently the captured motion may be processed to generate searchable quantizations of motion as described above in relation to . The processing may be performed by the cloud server by a consolidator or by a combination of the two. The searchable quantizations of motion may then be stored in one or more databases located at the cloud server and or the consolidator .

In some embodiments a game developer may request a full motion animation e.g. as described in or may request short motion segments for constructing a full motion animation from the cloud server . If short motion segments are requested the cloud server may search for the requested short motion segments and then send them if found to the game developer . In some embodiments the cloud server may forward the request to the consolidator which may then search for the requested short motion segments. If the consolidator finds the requested segments the consolidator may then forward the segments to the cloud server which may then send the segments to the game developer .

If a full motion animation is requested the cloud server may assemble the requested full motion animation as described above relation to and then may provide the assembled full motion animation to the game developer . In some embodiments the cloud server may forward the request to the consolidator which may then assemble the requested full motion animation as described in . The consolidator may then forward the assembled full motion animation to the game developer through the cloud server . In other embodiments the cloud server and the consolidator may share the animation assembly process.

In some embodiments specific short motion segments for capture may be requested by the game developer the consolidator an operator of the server or another entity. For example if short motion segments that match certain constraints are often requested but lacking in the database or only a few examples are available the game may be configured to request that the user perform those short motion segments. By doing so a library of transitions into and out of commonly requested positions may be constructed. In some embodiments the game may explicitly request the user to perform those short motion segments e.g. via an on screen or audio prompt . In other embodiments the game may instead integrate the short motion segments into gameplay for example challenging the user to perform the segments as part of the game . The game may also be configured to provide incentives to the user to perform the short motion segments. The incentives may include financial incentives e.g. real or virtual currency in game incentives e.g. new characters new character skins or outfits customizations score gains treasure downloadable content etc. or acknowledgements e.g. showing a congratulatory message showing a real or virtual name of the user to other users or any other suitable acknowledgement .

As shown in the system a user similar to the user in may interact with a motion capture device similar to the motion capture device in . The system depicted in may also include a cloud server a consolidator a game and a game developer all of which may be similar to their counterparts in i.e. the cloud server the consolidator the game and the game developer . In contrast to the system depicted in the system may also include an intermediary entity that resides between the motion capture device and the cloud server game . The intermediary entity may receive short motion sequence requests from the cloud server the consolidator the game and or the game developer . In some embodiments the intermediary entity may pass the requests on to the motion capture device and the user either directly or indirectly. For example the intermediary entity may process the requests to be compatible with the motion capture device and or a user interface device associated with the motion capture device . The intermediary entity may also collect short motion sequences captured by the motion capture device and process the sequences at least partially before passing them on.

The system includes a user a motion capture device a cloud server a consolidator a game and a game developer . These elements of the system may be similar to their counterparts in the system of i.e. the user the motion capture device the cloud server the consolidator the game and the game developer . In contrast to the system depicted in the game developer in may be able to directly request assembled full motion animations and or short motion sequences from the consolidator via a communication path . As a result traffic between the game developer and the consolidator may not need to be routed through the cloud server .

For example a computing device may be used to control a system for providing animated character models using stored recordings of player movement interface data as described herein. In an example basic configuration the computing device may include one or more processors and a system memory . A memory bus may be used for communicating between the processor and the system memory . The basic configuration is illustrated in by those components within the inner dashed line.

Depending on the desired configuration the processor may be of any type including but not limited to a microprocessor P a microcontroller C a digital signal processor DSP or any combination thereof. The processor may include one more levels of caching such as a cache memory a processor core and registers . The example processor core may include an arithmetic logic unit ALU a floating point unit FPU a digital signal processing core DSP Core or any combination thereof. An example memory controller may also be used with the processor or in some implementations the memory controller may be an internal part of the processor .

Depending on the desired configuration the system memory may be of any type including but not limited to volatile memory such as RAM non volatile memory such as ROM flash memory etc. or any combination thereof. The system memory may include an operating system an animation as a service AaaS application and program data . The AaaS application may include a search module for searching short motion sequences and an assembly module for assembling full motion animations from short motion sequences as described herein.

The computing device may have additional features or functionality and additional interfaces to facilitate communications between the basic configuration and any desired devices and interfaces. For example a bus interface controller may be used to facilitate communications between the basic configuration and one or more data storage devices via a storage interface bus . The data storage devices may be one or more removable storage devices one or more non removable storage devices or a combination thereof. Examples of the removable storage and the non removable storage devices include magnetic disk devices such as flexible disk drives and hard disk drives HDD optical disk drives such as compact disk CD drives or digital versatile disk DVD drives solid state drives SSD and tape drives to name a few. Example computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

The system memory the removable storage devices and the non removable storage devices are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD solid state drives or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which may be used to store the desired information and which may be accessed by the computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of the computing device .

The computing device may also include an interface bus for facilitating communication from various interface devices e.g. one or more output devices one or more peripheral interfaces and one or more communication devices to the basic configuration via the bus interface controller . Some of the example output devices include a graphics processing unit and an audio processing unit which may be configured to communicate to various external devices such as a display or speakers via one or more A V ports . One or more example peripheral interfaces may include a serial interface controller or a parallel interface controller which may be configured to communicate with external devices such as input devices e.g. keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. or other peripheral devices e.g. printer scanner etc. via one or more I O ports . An example communication device includes a network controller which may be arranged to facilitate communications with one or more other computing devices over a network communication link via one or more communication ports . The one or more other computing devices may include servers at a datacenter customer equipment and comparable devices.

The network communication link may be one example of a communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. A modulated data signal may be a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF microwave infrared IR and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein may include both storage media and communication media.

The computing device may be implemented as a part of a general purpose or specialized server mainframe or similar computer that includes any of the above functions. The computing device may also be implemented as a personal computer including both laptop computer and non laptop computer configurations.

Example embodiments may also include methods for providing animated character models using stored recordings of player movement interface data. These methods can be implemented in any number of ways including the structures described herein. One such way may be by machine operations of devices of the type described in the present disclosure. Another optional way may be for one or more of the individual operations of the methods to be performed in conjunction with one or more human operators performing some of the operations while other operations may be performed by machines. These human operators need not be collocated with each other but each can be with a machine that performs a portion of the program. In other examples the human interaction can be automated such as by pre selected criteria that may be machine automated.

Example methods may include one or more operations functions or actions as illustrated by one or more of blocks and or and may in some embodiments be performed by a computing device such as the computing device in . The operations described in the blocks may also be stored as computer executable instructions in a computer readable medium such as a computer readable medium of a computing device .

An example process for generating searchable short motion sequences may begin with block RECEIVE CAPTURED MOTION where captured motion e.g. motion captured as described in may be received by an entity e.g. a consolidator or a motion capture device controller for example as described in block in .

Block may be followed by block GENERATE SEARCHABLE QUANTIZATIONS OF SHORT MOTION SEQUENCES where searchable quantizations of short motion sequences may be generated from the captured motion for example as described above in relation to block in .

Block may be followed by block COMBINE THE SEARCHABLE QUANTIZATIONS IN A DATABASE where the searchable quantizations may be combined into a database of motion captures for example as described above in relation to block in .

Finally block may be followed by block RENDER SEARCHABLE QUANTIZATIONS AVAILABLE TO GAME DEVELOPERS FROM THE DATABASE THROUGH SEARCHES where the searchable quantizations in the database may be made available such that game developers e.g. the game developers and in and may find particular desired quantizations via searches as described above in relation to . The searchable quantizations may also be made available to other interested entities such as film or television producers or any other entity using motion capture or animation. The searches ma be unidirectional or bidirectional.

Example methods may include one or more operations functions or actions as illustrated by one or more of blocks and or and may in some embodiments be performed by a computing device such as the computing device in . The operations described in the blocks may also be stored as computer executable instructions in a computer readable medium such as a computer readable medium of a computing device .

An example process for providing assembled motion segments may begin with block RECEIVE A SEARCH REQUEST WITH START AND END POSITIONS FOR A REQUESTED MOTION where a request for a full motion animation with a particular start position and a particular end position may be received as described in and block in . The request may be received by an entity such as a consolidator e.g. the consolidator in the operator of a cloud server e.g. the cloud server in or any other entity having access to a database of short motion segments. In some embodiments the request may include other information about the desired full motion animation as described above such as a desired time duration desired or undesired orientations or trajectories or any other suitable constraint information.

Block may be followed by block . SEARCH DATABASE FROM EACH END OF A TARGET MOTION where the a start position and the end position of a target motion may be used to search a database as described above in relation to in some embodiments the start and end positions supplied in block may be used initially with other start and end positions used for subsequent searches as described in relation to block of .

Block may be followed by block IF THE SHORT MOTION SEQUENCES OF THE TARGET MOTION JOIN ASSEMBLE STEPS OF THE REQUESTED MOTION where short motion sequences found in block may be assembled together if they join as described in blocks and of .

Finally block may be followed by block IF THE REQUESTED MOTION IS ASSEMBLED PROVIDE THE ASSEMBLED MOTION TO THE GAME DEVELOPER where the assembled full motion animation may be provided to the game developer or other requesting entity as described in relation to . In some embodiments the assembled full motion animation may also be smoothed and mapped to a target character as described in block in either before or after being provided to the requester.

In some examples as shown in the computer program product may include a signal bearing medium that may also include one or more machine readable instructions that when executed by for example a processor may provide the functionality described herein. Thus for example referring to the processor in the AaaS application may undertake one or more of the tasks shown in in response to the instructions conveyed to the processor by the signal bearing medium to perform actions associated with generating searchable short motion sequences based on motions captured from multiple users as described herein. Some of those instructions may include for example receiving captured motion generating searchable quantizations of short motion sequences combining the searchable quantizations in a database and or rendering searchable quantizations available to game developers from the database through searches according to some embodiments described herein.

In some examples as shown in the computer program product may include a signal bearing medium that may also include one or more machine readable instructions that when executed by for example a processor may provide the functionality described herein. Thus for example referring to the processor in the AaaS application may undertake one or more of the tasks shown in in response to the instructions conveyed to the processor by the signal bearing medium to perform actions associated with providing assembled motion segments as described herein. Some of those instructions may include for example receiving a search request with start and end positions for a requested motion searching a database from each end of a target motion assembling steps of the requested motion if the short motion sequences of the target motion join and or providing the assembled motion to the game developer if the requested motion is assembled according to some embodiments described herein.

In some implementations the signal bearing mediums and depicted in may encompass computer readable mediums and such as but not limited to a hard disk drive a solid state drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Versatile Disk DVD a digital tape memory etc. In some implementations the signal bearing mediums and may encompass recordable mediums and such as but not limited to memory read write R W CDs R W DVDs etc. In some implementations the signal bearing mediums and may encompass communications mediums and such as but not limited to a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link. etc. . Thus for example the computer program products and may be conveyed to one or more modules of the instructions and by an RF signal bearing medium where the signal bearing mediums and are conveyed by the wireless communications mediums and e.g. a wireless communications medium conforming with the IEEE 802.11 standard .

According to some examples a system for providing searchable short motion sequences to game developers includes a communication module and a server. The communication module may be configured to receive captured motion of multiple users through one or more capture devices. The server may be configured to generate searchable quantizations of short motion sequences from the captured motion combine the searchable quantizations in a database and render the searchable quantizations available to game developers from the database through searches for building assembled motion.

According to some embodiments the server may be further configured to process the captured motion data into segments of distinct motion. The searchable quantizations of short motion sequences may be generated from the segments of distinct motion based on an orientation a position a timing a velocity and or an acceleration value. The motion may be captured in a public or a private setting and or may be captured through a public video capture device a personal video capture device or a motion sensor associated with a gaming system. The server may be further configured to remove identifying characteristics of the users from the captured motion.

According to other embodiments the searchable quantizations may be rendered searchable by a pose an action and or character features. The character features may include a size proportions and or weight. The server may be further configured to filter undesirable motion segments from the captured motion. The capture device s may include a motion sensor associated with a gaming system and the system may be configured to provide an incentive to user s of the gaming system to participate in collection of the captured motion. The incentive may include a monetary incentive a game incentive and or an acknowledgement. The server may be further configured to challenge the users to match a character pose on screen to allow build up of a library of transitions into and out of commonly requested positions in a game context. The server may also be further configured to identify action s lacking from the captured motion database and request the users to provide the identified lacking action. The system may be a game developer a controller of a capture system that controls the capture device or a consolidator independent of the capture system and the game developer.

According to other examples a method for providing searchable short motion sequences to game developers includes receiving captured motion of multiple users through one or more capture devices generating searchable quantizations of short motion sequences from the captured motion combining the searchable quantizations in a database and rendering the searchable quantizations available to game developers from the database through searches for building assembled motion.

According to some embodiments the method may further include processing the captured motion data into segments of distinct motion and or generating the searchable quantizations of short motion sequences from the segments of distinct motion based on an orientation a position a timing a velocity and or an acceleration value. The motion may be captured in a public or a private setting and or may be captured through a public video capture device a personal video capture device or a motion sensor associated with a gaming system. The method may further include removing identifying characteristics of the users from the captured motion.

According to other embodiments the method may further include rendering the searchable quantizations searchable by a pose an action and or character features. The character features may include a size proportions and or weight. The method may further include filtering undesirable motion segments from the captured motion. The capture device s may include a motion sensor associated with a gaming system and the method may further include providing an incentive to user s of the gaming system to participate in collection of the captured motion. The incentive may include a monetary incentive a game incentive and or an acknowledgement. The method may further include challenging the users to match a character pose on screen to allow build up of a library of transitions into and out of commonly requested positions in a game context. The method may also include identifying action s lacking from the captured motion database and requesting the users to provide the identified lacking action.

According to further examples a system for providing assembled motion segments from searchable quantizations of short motion sequences derived from captured motions may include a communication module a database and a server. The communication module may be configured to receive search requests from one or more requesters and provide the assembled motion segments to the requesters. The database may be configured to store the quantizations of short motion sequences derived from captured motions of multiple users. The server may be configured to receive start and end positions for a requested motion search the database from each end of a target motion assemble steps of the requested motion if the short motion sequences of the target motion join otherwise search for new points within the target motion and provide the assembled motion to a requester if the requested motion is assembled.

According to some embodiments the server may be further configured to perform the search in a multiple path multiple iteration manner to employ motion retargeting to match search results to a game model to smooth the assembled motion and map to a target game character to animate the target game character based on the assembled motion and or to start searching for the end position in any part of the database except a beginning of a motion record and the start position in any part of the database except an end of a motion record. The searchable quantizations of short motion sequences may be generated from segments of distinct motion based on one or more variables including an orientation a position a timing a velocity and or an acceleration value and a search request may include a preference for at least one of the variables.

According to other embodiments the server may be further configured to filter the searchable quantizations based on one or more character features. The character features may include a size proportions and or a weight. The system may be a game developer a controller of a capture system controlling the capture device or a consolidator independent of the capture system and the game developer.

According to yet further examples a method for providing assembled motion segments from searchable quantizations of short motion sequences derived from captured motions may include receiving a search request from a requester where the search request includes start and end positions for a requested motion searching a database from each end of a target motion where the database is configured to store the quantizations of short motion sequences derived from captured motions of multiple users assembling steps of the requested motion if the short motion sequences of the target motion join otherwise searching for new points within the target motion and providing the assembled motion to a requester if the requested motion is assembled.

According to some embodiments the method may further include performing the search in a multiple path multiple iteration manner employing motion retargeting to match search results to a game model smoothing the assembled motion and mapping to a target game character animating the target game character based on the assembled motion and or starting the search for the end position in any part of the database except a beginning of a motion record and the start position in any part of the database except an end of a motion record. The searchable quantizations of short motion sequences may be generated from segments of distinct motion based on one or more variables including an orientation a position a timing a velocity and or an acceleration value and the search request may include a preference for at least one of the variables.

According to other embodiments the method may further include filtering the searchable quantizations based on one or more character features. The character features may include a size proportions and or a weight.

According to some examples a computer readable medium may store instructions for providing searchable short motion sequences to game developers. The instructions may include receiving captured motion of multiple users through one or more capture devices generating searchable quantizations of short motion sequences from the captured motion combining the searchable quantizations in a database and rendering the searchable quantizations available to game developers from the database through searches for building assembled motion.

According to some embodiments the instructions may further include processing the captured motion data into segments of distinct motion and or generating the searchable quantizations of short motion sequences from the segments of distinct motion based on an orientation a position a timing a velocity and or an acceleration value. The motion may be captured in a public or a private setting and or may be captured through a public video capture device a personal video capture device or a motion sensor associated with a gaming system. The instructions may further include removing identifying characteristics of the users from the captured motion.

According to other embodiments the instructions may further include rendering the searchable quantizations searchable by a pose an action and or character features. The character features may include a size proportions and or weight. The instructions may further include filtering undesirable motion segments from the captured motion. The capture device s may include a motion sensor associated with a gaming system and the instructions may anther include providing an incentive to user s of the gaming system to participate in collection of the captured motion. The incentive may include a monetary incentive a game incentive and or an acknowledgement. The instructions may further include challenging the users to match a character pose on screen to allow build up of a library of transitions into and out of commonly requested positions in a game context. The instructions may also include identifying action s lacking from the captured motion database and requesting the users to provide the identified lacking action.

According to other examples a computer readable storage medium may store instructions for providing assembled motion segments from searchable quantizations of short motion sequences derived from captured motions. The instructions may include receiving a search request from a requester where the search request includes start and end positions for a requested motion searching a database from each end of a target motion where the database is configured to store the quantizations of short motion sequences derived from captured motions of multiple users assembling steps of the requested motion if the short motion sequences of the target motion join otherwise searching for new points within the target motion and providing the assembled motion to a requester if the requested motion is assembled.

According to some embodiments the instructions may further include performing the search in a multiple path multiple iteration manner employing motion retargeting to match search results to a game model smoothing the assembled motion and mapping to a target game character animating the target game character based on the assembled motion and or starting the search for the end position in any part of the database except a beginning of a motion record and the start position in any part of the database except an end of a motion record. The searchable quantizations of short motion sequences may be generated from segments of distinct motion based on one or more variables including an orientation a position a timing a velocity and of an acceleration value and the search request may include a preference for at least one of the variables.

According to other embodiments the instructions may further include filtering the searchable quantizations based on one or more character features. The character features may include a size proportions and or a weight.

There is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software may become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. There are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein may be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the an that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples may be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part may be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments described in this application which are intended as illustrations of various aspects. Many modifications and variations can be made without departing from its spirit and scope as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Functionally equivalent methods and apparatuses within the scope of the disclosure in addition to those enumerated herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. The present disclosure is to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to particular methods reagents compounds compositions or biological systems which can of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Versatile Disk DVD a digital tape a computer memory a solid state drive etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and or processes in the fashion set forth herein and thereafter use engineering practices to integrate such described devices and or processes into data processing systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein may be integrated into a data processing system via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device a memory such as volatile and non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices such as a touch pad or screen and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity of gantry systems control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities .

A typical data processing system may be implemented utilizing any suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems. The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures may be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality may be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermediate components. Likewise any two components so associated may also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated may also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically connectable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to embodiments containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers means at least two recitations or two or more recitations .

Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

In addition where features or aspects of the disclosure are described in terms of Markush groups those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosure is also thereby described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of members of the Markush group.

As will be understood by one skilled in the art for any and all purposes such as in terms of providing a written description all ranges disclosed herein also encompass any and all possible subranges and combinations of subranges thereof. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves thirds quarters fifths tenths etc. As a non limiting example each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third middle third and upper third etc. As will also be understood by one skilled in the art all language such as up to at least greater than less than and the like include the number recited and refer to ranges which can be subsequently broken down into subranges as discussed above. Finally as will be understood by one skilled in the art a range includes each individual member. Thus for example a group having 1 3 cells refers to groups having 1 2 or 3 cells. Similarly a group having 1 5 cells refers to groups having 1 2 3 4 or 5 cells and so forth.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

