---

title: Suspending and resuming transactions through wireless beacon communications
abstract: There are provided systems and methods for suspending and resuming transactions through wireless beacon communications. A merchant may set up a wireless beacon with employee devices. The beacons may connect to a user's device and assist the employee with determining and suspending a transaction for the user. Based on the connections between the user's device and a wireless beacon attached to an employee device, the employee device may receive an identifier for the user. The identifier may also be received from a previous check-in by the user. The employee or a user may scan one or more items that the user may wish to purchase. A transaction may be generated using the scan and may be associated with the user's identifier. Later the transaction may be recalled using the user's identifier or a transaction code identifying the transaction. Payment information for the user may also be associated with the transaction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09639834&OS=09639834&RS=09639834
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09639834
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160627
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 466 916 filed Aug. 22 2014 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present application generally relates to suspending and resuming transactions through wireless beacon communications and more specifically to utilizing wireless beacons to receive user information that is then associated with one or more scanned items the user wishes to purchase.

A user may visit a merchant location to select items or services that the user wishes to purchase. For certain purchases this may require the user to begin a transaction but not complete the transaction until a later time period. For example the user may request copies to be made of a book and may then have to later return to the copier to receive the copies and pay for the transaction. For other purchases the user may select items for purchase but wish to continue shopping after selecting the items. A user may be shopping for large electronics or may wish to scan items in for a transaction and continue shopping if lines are significantly long. Moreover at other times it may be useful for the user to suspend the transaction when the merchant is required to later complete the sale of the selected items or services. Thus the transaction is left open and needs to be resumed at a later time period. However without collecting some user information and or providing the user with identification for the transaction the user may not be able to later recall the transaction. Additionally collection of user information may be difficult and time consuming and users may opt to forego providing such information which may lead to poor customer experiences.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

Provided are methods that provide for suspending and resuming transactions through wireless beacon communications. Systems suitable for practicing methods of the present disclosure are also provided.

Various locations may provide short range wireless communications with a user device such as through wireless beacons using one or more of Bluetooth Low Energy BLE communication protocol LTE Direct communication protocol WiFi communication protocol etc. These beacons may be set up at a location and communicate with user devices to alert users of check in services through their device. The beacons may provide additional functionality such as establishing a connection with the user devices to establish suspend and or resume transactions. The beacons may communicate with the devices directly including information stored in the beacons. The beacons may also enable communication between the user device and a device attached to or in communication with the beacon such as a device of a merchant and or the merchant s employee.

A merchant may offer suspension and resumption of transactions using the aforementioned wireless beacons at a merchant location. A merchant location may correspond to a retail store a shopping market a mall location or other physical location where a user such as a consumer or purchaser may visit to purchase items. However in other embodiments the location employing wireless beacons as discussed below may correspond to a location having a line where the wireless beacons may collect initial information for a user and later recall the information. The merchant location may utilize short range wireless beacons at the merchant location to communicate with a user device that the user possesses. For example the short range wireless beacons may be established throughout the merchant location in order to effect a check in and or reception of user information when the user is at the location. The beacons may employ BLE LTE Direct WiFi or other communications that emit a signal receivable by the user s device. The communication may include an identifier for the beacon the user the merchant and or a payment provider that provides payment services between the user and the merchant.

A user may set up a user device to passively monitor for BLE LTE Direct WiFi or other communication signals from the beacon. When the user device detects the signal and verifies the one or more identifiers both the user device and the beacon may ramp up in power and establish a connection where the connection may further enable the user device to communicate with the merchant and or an employee through a device in possession of the merchant employee. The user device may provide some check in information identifier or other identification information e.g. payment information to the merchant employee which may later be used to identify a transaction. The beacon may be connected to a networked device at the merchant location or the beacon may include network functionality to communicate with other devices and or servers. Thus the beacon enables the user device to establish a connection communicate check in information e.g. an identifier for the user and or initiate a check in with the merchant. The check in may be completed automatically when the user device is in range of the beacon or may be completed after prompting the user to check in when the user device is in range of the beacon.

As previously discussed once a connection is first established with the user device and the beacon check in information and or other information may be received. The user may then bring selected items or services to an employee to scan the items services in for a transaction. In other embodiments the user may perform the scanning themselves such as through the user device or a scanner provided with a shopping cart basket. Once the items services have been scanned and entered a transaction for the items services may be generated with the merchant. The transaction and transaction information may be stored with the identification information received from the previous connection. The identification information may be retrieved for storage with the transaction using a second connection between a wireless beacon corresponding to the scanner and the user device of the user. For example when an employee of the merchant approaches the user and scans the user s items an identifier may be recalled for the user and associated with the transaction generated for the items. The user may then choose to complete a transaction for the selected items services or may suspend the transaction for resuming processing and completing later.

If the user chooses to suspend the transaction the transaction may be stored with the identifier for later recall. User information payment information and or incentive information e.g. loyalty accounts discounts etc. may also be stored with the transaction and or determined using the received identification information for the user. A transaction code may be provided to the user for resuming the transaction when the user is ready. In other embodiments the transaction may later be resumed by the user using another connection between the user device and another wireless beacon located at nearby or connected to a point of sale PoS or checkout device. Once the transaction is resumed the user may provide a payment instrument such as a payment account with a payment provider and a payment for the transaction may be processed. Incentives may be applied to the transaction prior to processing the payment. If the user has continued shopping after suspending the transaction additional items services the user wishes to purchase may be added to the transaction. The transaction may be suspended if a merchant employee is required to provide the items services to the user e.g. retrieve from a stockroom remove security tags provide items for a requested service etc. . Thus the transaction may be resumed when the user is ready to pick up their items services in another line or area. Therefore when the transaction is resumed and or a payment is processed the merchant may provide the purchased items services to the user.

System includes a user a user device an employee device having a scanner and a wireless beacon a merchant device and payment provider server in communication over a network . User such as a consumer or other shopper at a merchant location may arrive at the merchant location corresponding to employee device and merchant device . The merchant location may offer one or more items services for sale to user . User may establish a check in with the merchant location and may select one or more items services to purchase. The items services may be scanned by an employee at the merchant location using employee device . In other embodiments employee device may be provided with a cart or basket which user may utilize to scan and hold selected items services for purchase. Once the items services are scanned a transaction may be generated and associated with user identification information e.g. an identifier provided during the check in. User may then suspend the transaction with merchant device . When user is ready to resume the transaction user may utilize payment provider server to provide payment for the transaction.

User device employee device scanner wireless beacon merchant device and payment provider server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network .

User device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication with employee device wireless beacon merchant device and or payment provider server . For example in one embodiment user device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone laptop tablet computer wristwatch with appropriate computer hardware resources eyeglasses with appropriate computer hardware e.g. GOOGLE GLASS other type of wearable computing device and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an IPAD from APPLE . Although a user device is shown the user device may be managed or controlled by any suitable processing device. Although only one user device is shown a plurality of user devices may function similarly.

User device of contains a check in application a payment application other applications a database and a communication module . Check in application payment application and other applications may correspond to processes procedures and or applications for example a software program executable by a hardware processor. In other embodiments user device may include additional or different software as required.

Check in application may be used by user of user device to complete a check in for user at a location corresponding to employee device merchant device and establish a connection with wireless beacon . Check in application may correspond to an application utilized by user device with merchant device to complete a check in for the merchant location. The check in with merchant device may correspond to a process to log in to a user account of user with merchant device or payment provider server if payment provider server provides check in services . In other embodiments the check in may provide and or verify the identity of user including transmission of an identifier for user and or user device or other identification information e.g. personal information payment financial information a loyalty account identifier etc. . The check in may be completed over network with merchant device . In such embodiments check in application may correspond more generally to a browser application configured to communicate with merchant device . In other embodiments the check in may be completed when user device connects to a wireless beacon established at the merchant location. In such embodiments check in application may connect to the wireless beacon including wireless beacon as explained below in reference to the connection with wireless beacon and the aforementioned identification information may be provided to wireless beacon and merchant device .

Check in application may also cause user device to connect to wireless beacon to assist in suspending a transaction for items scanned in by scanner . In this regard check in application may receive short range wireless communications from wireless beacon at the merchant location and transmit information to wireless beacon . In various embodiments the information transmitted to wireless beacon and or another wireless beacon may correspond to check in information for a check in process with merchant device or payment provider server if payment provider server provides check in services . In such embodiments the check in information may include an identifier or other identification information for user as previously discussed. The check in information may be provided to wireless beacon or another wireless beacon by check in application prior to scanning in items service for a transaction by employee device . In other embodiments the check in information may be transmitted to wireless beacon when employee device is scanning in items service for a transaction for user .

Once check in information an identifier and or other identification information is transmitted by check in application check in application may connect to wireless beacon during scanning of items for a transaction. Wireless beacon may be range limited to a small area around employee device such as approximately 3 feet 1 foot 6 inches or other small area where only user device may connect with wireless beacon e.g. an average distance between user and a store employee operating employee device . Thus check in application may connect with wireless beacon when user is nearby wireless beacon with user device .

Check in application may execute in the background of an operating system of user device and be configured to establish the connections using communication module of user device with wireless beacon . The connection may be established with or without user input from user . For example wireless beacon may broadcast a token such as a universally unique identifier UUID for reception by check in application as will be explained in more detail herein. Check in application may utilize communication module of user device to receive the token from wireless beacon . If check in application acknowledges the UUID as identifying wireless beacon merchant device and or payment provider server e.g. if check in application determines the UUID corresponds to a request to complete a check in check in application may transmit an identifier or other identification information corresponding to user and or user device back to the wireless beacon . Check in application may utilize communication module of user device to communicate with wireless beacon e.g. over near field communication Bluetooth Bluetooth Low Energy radio infrared LTE Direct or other connection . The identifier from user device may include be transmitted with concatenated with or otherwise bundled with the identifier received from the wireless beacon . In other embodiments different information may be transmitted to wireless beacon such as a name or other personal information for user a loyalty account for user with the merchant payment information for user etc. Thus the information transmitted to wireless beacon does not need to be utilized to process and or complete a check in with merchant device when information for user has already be received from a previous check in.

Once a connection is established with wireless beacon user device may be checked in with merchant device if user has not previously been checked in. Once connected to wireless beacon the identifier or other identification information for user may be associated with a transaction. For example an employee for the merchant location may use employee device to scan one or more items services for purchase by user into a transaction as will be explained in more detail herein. Once the transaction is established and generated the identifier may be used to identify the transaction associated with user . User may then instruct the employee to suspend the transaction verbally or may utilize payment application to suspend the transaction such as through an instruction to employee device . Once the transaction is suspended user may later recall the transaction using a transaction code provided to user or through a connection between user device and another wireless beacon at nearby or connected to merchant device . The transaction code may be provided to user through payment application from employee device may be a physical token chip or other item containing the transaction code or may be verbally given to user . In embodiments where the transaction is resumed using a new connection between user device and a wireless beacon corresponding to merchant device check in application may connect to the wireless beacon as described above.

Payment application may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit user to select payment options and provide payment for items and or services. For example payment application may be implemented as an application having a user interface enabling the user to enter payment options for storage by user device provide payment to a merchant e.g. through merchant device and complete a transaction for the items and or services using a payment instrument e.g. a payment account with payment provider server . In certain embodiments payment application may correspond more generally to a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet or access a website corresponding to a payment provider.

Payment application may receive a transaction code used to resume a suspended transaction from employee device . The transaction code may later be transmitted to merchant device to resume the transaction. Thus payment application may transmit the transaction code to merchant device . Once the transaction is resumed user may add additional items services to the transaction e.g. by scanning one or more additional items service into the transaction and or the transaction may be processed with a payment and completed. Payment application may also provide stored incentives e.g. loyalty account benefits discounts coupons etc. to merchant device for use with the suspended transaction. The incentives may be provided when the transaction is suspended and or when a payment for a transaction is being processed.

Payment application may be configured to provide payment to merchant device . In this regard payment application may correspond to an application that may provide an interface where user may view a transaction for one or more items scanned by employee device . Additionally user may generate a payment request for the transaction to merchant device . The payment request may provide a payment instrument such as a credit debit card checking account payment account etc. Where a payment account is utilized payment application may instruct payment provider server to provide payment for the transaction to the merchant. The payment request may correspond to a token including the selected payment instrument for user . The payment instrument may include an account identifier payment card bank account etc. Once the payment request is generated user may authorize the payment request for transmission to merchant device and or payment provider server in order to effectuate a payment to the merchant Payment application may transmit the payment request to payment provider server with an identifier for the merchant in order to complete the payment to the merchant In other embodiments payment application may transmit the payment request as a token with a payment instrument and identifier for user to merchant device for completion by the merchant.

In various embodiments one or more features of check in application and or payment application may be incorporated in the same application so as to provide their respective features in one application.

User device includes other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to user device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Other applications may also include email texting voice and IM applications that allow a user to send and receive emails calls texts and other notifications through network . In various embodiments other applications may include financial applications such as banking online payments money transfer or other applications associated with payment provider server . Other applications may include browser social networking and or mapping applications. Various applications features and or processes of other applications may be used in conjunction with check in application and or payment application . Other applications may contain software programs executable by a processor including a graphical user interface GUI configured to provide an interface to the user.

User device may further include database which may include for example identifiers such as operating system registry entries cookies associated with check in application payment application and or other applications identifiers associated with hardware of user device or other appropriate identifiers such as identifiers used for payment user device authentication or identification. Identifiers in database may be used by a payment credit provider such as payment provider server to associate user device with a particular account maintained by the payment credit provider. Database may include user device tokens and or encryption keys including an encryption key of wireless beacon merchant device and or payment provider server . Database may include identifying information for tokens enabling check in application to identify employee device wireless beacon merchant device and or payment provider server when receiving a corresponding check in token. In various embodiments database may store information used to identify a suspended transaction such as a transaction code or other identifier enabling identification of the suspended transaction.

User device includes at least one communication module adapted to communicate with employee device wireless beacon merchant device and or payment provider server . In various embodiments communication module may include a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communication devices. Communication module may communicate directly with wireless beacon using short range communications such as Bluetooth Low Energy LTE Direct radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communications.

Employee device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication with user device merchant device and or payment provider server . For example in one embodiment employee device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone laptop computer wristwatch with appropriate computer hardware resources eyeglasses with appropriate computer hardware e.g. GOOGLE GLASS and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an IPAD from APPLE . Although a device is shown the device may be managed or controlled by any suitable processing device. Although only one employee device is shown a plurality of employee devices may function similarly.

Employee device of contains a scanning application scanner wireless beacon and a communication module . Scanning application may correspond to processes procedures and or applications for example a software program executable by a hardware processor. In other embodiments employee device may include additional or different software as required.

Scanning application may correspond to an application having features and processes that interface with scanner to enable a merchant employee correspond to employee device to enter information for one or more items and or services selected by user for purchase to employee device and generate a transaction. In this regard the merchant employee may utilize employee device to input the information such as through scanner and scanning reading a barcode QR code or other readable information for the item service e.g. on a box display panel etc. for the item service . In other embodiments other input processes may be utilized to input information for the selected item s service s to scanning application .

Once the item s service s for purchase by user are entered by scanning application using in various embodiments scanner a transaction for the item s service s may be determined and generated. The transaction may include transaction information having a name or identifier of the selected item s service s a total cost and or cost of each item service incentives applied to the transaction payment information for user to use for the transaction and or other information used to complete the transaction. Employee device may receive and or access check in information an identifier and or other identification information for user . Such identification information may be received from user device based on a connection between user device and a wireless beacon e.g. wireless beacon as previously discussed. Scanning application may associate the transaction with identification for user such as the identifier personal and or payment information or other information received from user . Once the transaction and the identification are associated user may choose to complete the transaction by providing payment for the transaction in various embodiments using payment provider server .

In other embodiments user may wish to suspend the transaction and later resume the transaction for example if services are required to be rendered to user if an employee at the merchant location is required to retrieve the item s in the transaction for user if user wishes to continue shopping or other circumstance. In such examples user may choose to suspend the transaction with employee device so that the transaction can later be resumed and processed with merchant device . User may inform the merchant employee to suspend the transaction using scanning application . When the transaction is suspended the transaction and the identifier or other identification information for user may be stored by employee device and or transmitted to merchant device for storage.

While the transaction is suspended no additional processing for the transaction e.g. a payment may be performed. User may be given a transaction code to recall the transaction later. The transaction code may be displayed to the merchant employee and or user on employee device . In other embodiments user may receive a print out token RFID tag or other physical possession that may store or display the transaction code. In other embodiments the transaction may be stored with the identifier for user and or user device that was transmitted to wireless beacon . In such embodiments the transaction may later be recalled when user device connects to another wireless beacon corresponding to merchant device and transmits the identifier to the wireless beacon. Thus merchant device may retrieve the transaction using the identifier for user user device when user device is in proximity to merchant device .

User may update the transaction prior to processing and completing a payment for the transaction. For example user may have one or more items services added to the transaction removed from the transaction or updated in the transaction e.g. with incentives or discounts for the selected item s service s . User may utilize the transaction code to resume and update the transaction with employee device or another employee device. In other embodiments user may update the transaction on user device using the transaction code to recall and resume the transaction. Once the transaction is updated a new transaction code may be generated or the previous transaction code may be further used. Once user is ready to complete the transaction by providing payment for the transaction user may resume the transaction with merchant device using the transaction code or through a connection to a wireless beacon corresponding to merchant device as will be explained in more detail herein.

Scanner may correspond to a device and associated software e.g. scanning application utilized to input items and or services for a transaction. Scanner may include hardware utilized to capture information for item s service s selected by user for purchase. In this regard scanner may correspond to an optical device e.g. infrared scanner camera etc. that may capture an alphanumeric code bar code QR code text or other data for an item or service and determine the item service for entry into a transaction. Scanner may determine the item service through a database of employee device and or a remote database such as a database of merchant device . Once scanner has received the item service information scanning application may add the item service to a transaction as previously discussed.

Wireless beacon may correspond to a device used with employee device to connect to user device establish check in information and or enable employee device to associate an identifier for user user device with a transaction. Wireless beacon may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wireless communication with user device . For example in one embodiment wireless beacon may be implemented as a dongle device including a hardware processor and a communication module for example connected to employee device . Wireless beacon may also be implemented as devices incorporated within employee device . Additionally a wireless beacon such as one initially establishing check in information at the merchant location and or one corresponding to merchant device for use in resuming a transaction may also act as a stand alone device including a processor communication module and or network interface component configured to communicate with user device employee device merchant device and or payment provider server . Although wireless beacon is described singly with respect to employee device a plurality of wireless beacons may established at the merchant location as previously discussed and or each associated with a plurality of employee devices.

Wireless beacon of contains processes procedures and or applications for example a software program executable by a hardware processor configured to interact with user device employee device and or merchant device . Thus regardless of the implementation of wireless beacon as discussed above wireless beacon may utilize a connection check in process and include or be connected to a communication module. In other embodiments wireless beacon may include additional or different hardware and software as required.

Wireless beacon may include and or execute an application for transmitting requests to establish a connection between a device e.g. user device and wireless beacon . The requests may be unique to wireless beacon thereby identifying wireless beacon . Wireless beacon may utilize short range wireless communications of wireless beacon to transmit the requests to establish a connection including an identifier such as a Universally Unique Identifier UUID . If user device receives a request to establish the connection with wireless beacon and responds with an identifier for user user device potentially including the UUID and other information necessary to effectuate a check in for user as previously discussed wireless beacon to ramp up in power and create a connection between user device and wireless beacon .

Wireless beacon may transmit the request to establish the connection as a short range wireless communication e.g. a BLE protocol communication including a wake up process for check in application of user device and or a token for wireless beacon . In other embodiments the request and or connection may utilize near field communication radio communication infrared communication or Bluetooth communication. Additionally although wireless beacon may utilize BLE protocol communications to effectuate an always on type service where the UUID and wake up process are transmitted continuously or at some interval other communication protocols used to provide an always on service may include QUALCOMM LTE Direct or similar device to device communication technology. BLE and LTE Direct may both be utilized to provide discovery of nearby devices to wireless beacon e.g. user device and establishment of a connection for data transfers. In other embodiments wireless beacon may correspond to other devices such as WiFi capable devices near field communication devices etc.

The request may be specific to user device by including information that is specific to user and or user device such as a name identifier or user device identifier. The information specific to user may be determined from a user account of user or other information previously provided to employee device and or merchant device e.g. a previous check in a loyalty account etc. . Thus in certain embodiments only user device will pick up and authenticate the request for example if user has previously performed a check in with the merchant device . After wireless beacon receives an identifier from user device wireless beacon may determine user is in proximity to wireless beacon . Wireless beacon may pass the identifier and any other device s identifiers where applicable to employee device and or merchant device to associate user with wireless beacon .

Wireless beacon may utilize a communication module within wireless beacon and or communication module to pass the check in information and or identifier for user user device to merchant device . Thus wireless beacon and or employee device includes communication module adapted to communicate with user device and or merchant device . Communication module may include a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communication devices. Communication module may also communicate with user device and or merchant device using short range communications such as Bluetooth Low Energy LTE Direct WiFi radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communications.

Merchant device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication with user device employee device wireless beacon and or payment provider server . Merchant device may correspond to a device utilized to complete a check in for user at a merchant location corresponding to merchant device . Merchant device may further be used to resume a suspended transaction and process and payment for the transaction. Thus merchant device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone laptop computer wristwatch with appropriate computer hardware resources eyeglasses with appropriate computer hardware e.g. GOOGLE GLASS and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an IPAD from APPLE . Although a merchant device is shown the merchant device may be managed or controlled by any suitable processing device. Although only one merchant device is shown a plurality of merchant devices may function similarly. Moreover in various embodiments one or more of the applications processes and or features discussed below in reference to merchant device may be included in payment provider server and vice versa.

Merchant device of contains a check in application a sales application other applications a database and a communication module . Check in application sales application and other applications may correspond to processes procedures and or applications for example a software program executable by a hardware processor. In other embodiments merchant device may include additional or different software as required.

Check in application may correspond to processes to complete a check in with user device for a merchant location corresponding to merchant device e.g. a merchant storefront an event venue a transportation provider location including airports and train stations or another service provider location . Thus check in application may correspond to the merchant device side application configured to receive check in information e.g. user account information an identifier for user user device user payment and or person information or other identification information for user user device from user device and complete the check in. The check in request may include log in information for a user account with merchant device and or payment provider server and thus complete the check in with user by verifying the account information. For example the check in information may include an identifier or other account information for a user payment account of user . However in embodiments where a user account has not been previously established by user check in application may receive other information identifying user including a user name identifier user device identifier an identifier for an account with another entity or other information.

As previously discussed check in application may perform a check in for user by receiving identification information for user over network from a wireless beacon established at the merchant location and or from employee device when user device connects to wireless beacon . Once check in is completed between user device and merchant device check in application may be utilized to transmit and receive information corresponding to user . Such information may include payment information transaction codes and or identifiers used to resume a suspended transaction. In various embodiments once user wishes to resume a transaction that has been suspended check in application may receive the request to resume the transaction and request the transaction be loaded to sales application from employee device and or database .

Sales application may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit a merchant salesperson and or other employee utilizing merchant device to enter view and or process items services user wishes to purchase. For example sales application may be implemented as an application having a user interface enabling the user of merchant device to enter the items services user has selected for purchase e.g. through input by the user and or user scanning the items services loading a suspended transaction of scanned items services etc. . Sales application may further enable the merchant to view the items services for purchase by user in a transaction enter coupons and or discounts for the transaction edit the transaction including adding removing and or modifying items services or other functions with regard to the selected transaction. Once the items services have been arranged into a transaction a total may be calculated and the transaction may be engaged with user to complete payment for the selected items services.

As previously discussed a transaction may be loaded to sales application using a transaction code supplied by user and or user device . The transaction code may recall a transaction that has been suspended and stored to database for example when employee device generates the transaction and user chooses to suspend the transaction. The transaction may also be recalled when user device connects to a wireless beacon at nearby and or connected to merchant device . Thus merchant device may receive a request to resume a transaction when user and or user device provides a transaction code to resume the transaction and or when user device is within a proximity to merchant device and may connect to merchant device and or a wireless beacon corresponding to merchant device . Once the transaction is resumed it may be processed and completed by receiving a payment instrument to complete a payment for the transaction and processing a payment using the payment instrument.

Sales application may request payment covering the transaction from user . Sales application may receive a payment instrument from user to complete the transaction for the selected items services. The payment instrument may correspond to cash payment cards checks and or payment accounts with payment provider server in various embodiments. Once a transaction is processed and or completed by sales application for the transaction a transaction history e.g. receipt may be generated and provided to one or more of user user device and or payment provider server . The transaction history may be stored to database and or provided to user such as through a printout and or electronic documentation with user device .

Merchant device includes other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to merchant device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. In various embodiments other applications may include financial applications such as banking online payments money transfer or other applications associated with payment provider server . Other applications may contain other software programs executable by a processor including a graphical user interface GUI configured to provide an interface to the user.

Merchant device may further include database which may include for example identifiers such as operating system registry entries cookies associated with check in application sales application and or other applications identifiers associated with hardware of merchant device or other appropriate identifiers such as identifiers used for payment user device authentication or identification. In one embodiment identifiers in database may be used by payment provider server to associate merchant device with a particular account maintained by payment provider server . Database may also store user s information including check in information an identifier or other identification information for user received from a check in by user and or a connection between user device and a wireless beacon e.g. wireless beacon . Database may include suspended transactions for user with the identification information.

Merchant device includes at least one communication module adapted to communicate with user device employee device wireless beacon and or payment provider server . In various embodiments communication module may include a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communication devices. Communication module may communicate directly with wireless beacon using short range communications such as Bluetooth Low Energy LTE Direct radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communications.

Payment provider server may be maintained for example by an online payment service provider which may provide payment services and or processing for financial transactions on behalf of a user. In this regard payment provider server includes one or more processing applications which may be configured to interact with user device and or merchant device to facilitate payment for a transaction. In one example payment provider server may be provided by PAYPAL Inc. of San Jose Calif. USA. However in other embodiments payment provider server may be maintained by or include a credit provider financial services provider financial data provider and or other service provider which may provide payment services to user and or the merchant Moreover in various embodiments one or more of the applications processes and or features discussed below in reference to payment provider server may be included in merchant device and vice versa.

Payment provider server of includes a transaction processing application other applications a database and a network interface component . Transaction processing application and other applications may correspond to processes procedures and or applications for example a software program executable by a hardware processor. In other embodiments payment provider server may include additional or different software as required such as a check in application as discussed in reference to merchant device where those features are instead provided by payment provider server .

Transaction processing application may be configured to receive information from and or transmit information to user device and or merchant device for processing and completion of financial transactions. Transaction processing application may include one or more applications to process financial transaction information from user and merchant for merchant device by receiving a request to complete transaction for items and or services offered by the merchant. The request may correspond to a payment from user to the merchant. The payment may include a user account identifier or other payment information e.g. a credit debit card or checking account for user and a receiving account for the merchant. Additionally the payment may include a payment amount and terms of payment. Transaction processing application may complete the transaction by providing payment to the merchant through the receiving account payment information. Additionally transaction processing application may provide transaction histories including receipts to user device and or merchant device for completion and documentation of the financial transaction. For example a transaction history may be provided to user device and or merchant device to allow for the merchant to view the transaction and provide the items and or services to user .

In various embodiments payment provider server includes other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to payment provider server . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing server side security features programmatic server applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Other applications may contain software programs executable by a processor including a graphical user interface GUI configured to provide an interface to a user.

Additionally payment provider server includes database . As previously discussed user and or the merchant may establish one or more payment accounts with payment provider server . User accounts in database may include merchant user information such as name address birthdate payment funding information additional user financial information and or other desired user data. User and or the merchant may link to their respective payment accounts through a user merchant and or device identifier. Thus when an identifier is transmitted to payment provider server e.g. from user device and or merchant device a payment account belonging to user and or the merchant may be found. In other embodiments user and or the merchant may not have previously established a payment account and may provide other financial information to payment provider server to complete financial transactions as previously discussed.

In various embodiments payment provider server includes at least one network interface component adapted to communicate user device and or merchant device over network . In various embodiments network interface component may comprise a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency RF and infrared IR communication devices.

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks. Thus network may correspond to small scale communication networks such as a private or local area network or a larger scale network such as a wide area network or the Internet accessible by the various components of system .

If merchant store does not allow for self scanning entering of items to a transaction user may request that merchant employee enter an item that user has selected from shelf into a transaction. Thus user may present item to merchant employee . Merchant employee may utilize employee device to scan in item into a transaction. User device may have previously established a check in with merchant store to supply an identifier used with the transaction. Thus employee device may include a wireless beacon that connects with user device and recalls the identifier. In other embodiments the identifier may be supplied when user device and employee device connect. Once the identifier is supplied to employee device the identifier may be stored with the transaction and user may request the transaction for item be suspended. As previously discussed in some embodiments merchant employee may provide user with a transaction code when suspending the transaction.

Once a user is ready to resume the transaction such as if the user wishes to process a payment for the transaction the user may approach merchant device to process the transaction. Thus user arrives at merchant device with user device in order to resume and complete the transaction. User and or user device may supply a transaction code to merchant device in order to recall the transaction. However in other embodiments merchant device may include a wireless beacon within nearby and or connected to merchant device that connects with user device . Thus once user device and the wireless beacon connect merchant device may be supplied with the identifier for the transaction and the transaction may be recalled and resumed. Once the transaction is retrieved user may engage in a payment for the transaction.

Employee device displays a scanning application interface corresponding generally to the processes and features described in reference to scanning application of . As previously discussed employee device may be utilized to generate a transaction from one or more items services entered scanned by employee device . In this regard scanning application interface includes a transaction A having scanned items a user A identifier and a suspend transaction process. Scanned items may include a list of the item s service s in a transaction and may include information about the item s service s such as price availability stock room location description etc. Scanned items may be populated after entering the item s service s into employee device by a merchant employee. Transaction A further includes user A identifier which may correspond to an identifier or other identification information for the user of user device that wishes to purchase scanned items . The merchant employee corresponding to employee device may further select to suspend transaction A using suspend transaction process. If the merchant employee suspends the transaction the merchant employee may view transaction code which may be provided to the user of user device . The merchant employee may further transmit the suspended transaction A to merchant device for resuming later by selecting a transmit to register process.

User device displays a payment application interface corresponding generally to the processes and features described in reference to payment application of . Payment application interface includes a suspended transaction and a transaction code . As previously discussed the user of user device may have suspended transaction A . Thus suspended transaction may appear to the user in payment application interface so that the user may view the transaction and choose to resume and edit or pay as necessary. In order to recall the transaction with merchant device the user may view transaction code which may include the code from transaction action code and further include a process to transmit the transaction code to merchant device .

Merchant device displays a sales application interface corresponding generally to the processes and features described in reference to sales application of . Sales application interface may be utilized to process a payment for the transaction. Sales application interface may load the transaction for payment after the user of user device requests to resume the transaction. Thus once the user requests to resume the transaction sales application interface includes a transaction having a payment status and a receipt . Transaction may display the selected item s service s for purchase by the user such as scanned items . Once the user is ready to pay payment status may display whether the payment for transaction has been processed is pending or has been rejected. Further receipt may be utilized to provide a transaction history and documentation of payment for transaction .

At step a transaction for a user is determined using an item selected by the user for purchase. The transaction may be determined by scanning at least one item or service using a barcode scanner or a QR code scanner. An employee at a merchant location may perform the scanning of the item using an employee device that includes a wireless beacon connected to the employee device. In other embodiments the item may be scanned by the user when the user places the item in a holding basket wherein the holding basket includes a wireless beacon. Thus at step the transaction is stored with an identifier for the user when a user device for the user connects to a wireless beacon for a merchant wherein the identifier is accessed from check in information for the user. The user device and the wireless beacon may connect using one of near field communication radio communication infrared communication Bluetooth communication Bluetooth Low Energy BLE communication LTE Direct communication and WiFi communication.

The check in information may be received using a connection between the user device and another wireless beacon wherein the first wireless beacon is connected to an employee device for an employee at the merchant location and wherein the second wireless beacon is located at the merchant location such as near a merchant payment device POS device and or checkout device. For example the second wireless beacon may be further located near a checkout line. The check in information may also be received after the user completes a check in for the merchant location over a network connection.

The transaction is accessed for a checkout or payment process by the user at step . The transaction may be accessed by a merchant point of sale or checkout device using a transaction code where the transaction code is previously generated that identifies the transaction and is communicated to the user. The transaction code may be communicated to the user device wherein the user device communicates the transaction code to a point of sale or checkout device during the checkout payment process. In various embodiments prior to payment another item or service may be added to the transaction which may be updated. Additionally incentives for the user may be accessed and processed with the transaction during payment. Thus a payment for the transaction may be processed for example using a payment account with a payment provider.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons image or links and or moving one or more images etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device service device or a service provider server via network . In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. One or more processors which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor s may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor s and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor s for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various embodiments non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EEPROM FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

