---

title: Systems and methods for managing mobility in a network of moving things
abstract: Systems and methods for managing mobility in a network of moving things. As non-limiting examples, various aspects of this disclosure provide systems and methods for managing mobility in a network in which at least a portion of the network access points are moving.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09591676&OS=09591676&RS=09591676
owner: VENIAM, INC.
number: 09591676
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160624
---
This patent application makes reference to claims priority to and claims benefit from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 098 titled Systems and Methods for Managing Mobility in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The present application is also related to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 62 222 192 titled Communication Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 221 997 titled Integrated Communication Network for a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 016 titled Systems and Methods for Synchronizing a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 042 titled Systems and Methods for Managing a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 066 titled Systems and Methods for Monitoring a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 077 titled Systems and Methods for Detecting and Classifying Anomalies in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 098 titled Systems and Methods for Managing Mobility in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 121 titled Systems and Methods for Managing Connectivity a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 135 titled Systems and Methods for Collecting Sensor Data in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 145 titled Systems and Methods for Interfacing with a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 150 titled Systems and Methods for Interfacing with a User of a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 168 titled Systems and Methods for Data Storage and Processing for a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 183 titled Systems and Methods for Vehicle Traffic Management in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 186 titled Systems and Methods for Environmental Management in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 190 titled Systems and Methods for Port Management in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 244 828 titled Utilizing Historical Data to Correct GPS Data in a Network of Moving Things filed on Oct. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 244 930 titled Using Anchors to Correct GPS Data in a Network of Moving Things filed on Oct. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 246 368 titled Systems and Methods for Inter Application Communication in a Network of Moving Things filed on Oct. 26 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 246 372 titled Systems and Methods for Probing and Validating Communication in a Network of Moving Things filed on Oct. 26 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 250 544 titled Adaptive Rate Control for Vehicular Networks filed on Nov. 4 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 273 878 titled Systems and Methods for Reconfiguring and Adapting Hardware in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 31 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 253 249 titled Systems and Methods for Optimizing Data Gathering in a Network of Moving Things filed on Nov. 10 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 257 421 titled Systems and Methods for Delay Tolerant Networking in a Network of Moving Things filed on Nov. 19 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 265 267 titled Systems and Methods for Improving Coverage and Throughput of Mobile Access Points in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 9 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 270 858 titled Channel Coordination in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 257 854 titled Systems and Methods for Network Coded Mesh Networking in a Network of Moving Things filed on Nov. 20 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 260 749 titled Systems and Methods for Improving Fixed Access Point Coverage in a Network of Moving Things filed on Nov. 30 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 273 715 titled Systems and Methods for Managing Mobility Controllers and Their Network Interactions in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 31 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 281 432 titled Systems and Methods for Managing and Triggering Handovers of Mobile Access Points in a Network of Moving Things filed on Jan. 21 2016 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 268 188 titled Captive Portal related Control and Management in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 16 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 270 678 titled Systems and Methods to Extrapolate High Value Data from a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 272 750 titled Systems and Methods for Remote Software Update and Distribution in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 30 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 278 662 titled Systems and Methods for Remote Configuration Update and Distribution in a Network of Moving Things filed on Jan. 14 2016 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 286 243 titled Systems and Methods for Adapting a Network of Moving Things Based on User Feedback filed on Jan. 22 2016 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 278 764 titled Systems and Methods to Guarantee Data Integrity When Building Data Analytics in a Network of Moving Things Jan. 14 2016 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 286 515 titled Systems and Methods for Self Initialization and Automated Bootstrapping of Mobile Access Points in a Network of Moving Things filed on Jan. 25 2016 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 295 602 titled Systems and Methods for Power Management in a Network of Moving Things filed on Feb. 16 2016 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 299 269 titled Systems and Methods for Automating and Easing the Installation and Setup of the Infrastructure Supporting a Network of Moving Things filed on Feb. 24 2016 each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Current communication networks are unable to adequately support communication environments involving moving networks. As a non limiting example current communication networks are unable to adequately manage mobility in a network comprising a complex array of both moving and static nodes e.g. the Internet of moving things . Limitations and disadvantages of conventional methods and systems will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such approaches with some aspects of the present methods and systems set forth in the remainder of this disclosure with reference to the drawings.

Various aspects of this disclosure provide systems and methods for managing mobility in a network of moving things. As non limiting examples various aspects of this disclosure provide systems and methods for managing mobility in a network in which at least a portion of the network access points are moving.

As utilized herein the terms circuits and circuitry refer to physical electronic components i.e. hardware and any software and or firmware code that may configure the hardware be executed by the hardware and or otherwise be associated with the hardware. As used herein for example a particular processor and memory e.g. a volatile or non volatile memory device a general computer readable medium etc. may comprise a first circuit when executing a first one or more lines of code and may comprise a second circuit when executing a second one or more lines of code. Additionally a circuit may comprise analog and or digital circuitry. Such circuitry may for example operate on analog and or digital signals. It should be understood that a circuit may be in a single device or chip on a single motherboard in a single chassis in a plurality of enclosures at a single geographical location in a plurality of enclosures distributed over a plurality of geographical locations etc.

As utilized herein circuitry is operable to perform a function whenever the circuitry comprises the necessary hardware and code if any is necessary to perform the function regardless of whether performance of the function is disabled or not enabled e.g. by a user configurable setting factory setting or trim etc. .

As utilized herein and or means any one or more of the items in the list joined by and or . As an example x and or y means any element of the three element set x y x y . That is x and or y means one or both of x and y. As another example x y and or z means any element of the seven element set x y z x y x z y z x y z . That is x y and or x means one or more of x y and z. As utilized herein the terms e.g. and for example set off lists of one or more non limiting examples instances or illustrations.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting of the disclosure. As used herein the singular forms are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises includes comprising including has have having and the like when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another element. Thus for example a first element a first component or a first section discussed below could be termed a second element a second component or a second section without departing from the teachings of the present disclosure. Similarly various spatial terms such as upper lower side and the like may be used in distinguishing one element from another element in a relative manner. It should be understood however that components may be oriented in different manners for example an electronic device may be turned sideways so that its top surface is facing horizontally and its side surface is facing vertically without departing from the teachings of the present disclosure.

With the proliferation of the mobile and or static things e.g. devices machines people etc. and logistics for such things to become connected to each other e.g. in the contexts of smart logistics transportation environmental sensing etc. a platform that is for example always on robust scalable and secure that is capable of providing connectivity services and Internet access to such things or objects anywhere and anytime is desirable. Efficient power utilization within the various components of such system is also desirable.

Accordingly various aspects of the present disclosure provide a fully operable always on responsive robust scalable secure platform system architecture to provide connectivity services and Internet access to all mobile things and or static things e.g. devices machines people access points end user devices sensors etc. anywhere and anytime while operating in an energy efficient manner.

Various aspects of the present disclosure provide a platform that is flexibly configurable and adaptable to the various requirements features and needs of different environments where each environment may be characterized by a respective level of mobility and density of mobile and or static things and the number and or types of access to those things. Characteristics of various environments may for example include high mobility of nodes e.g. causing contacts or connections to be volatile high number of neighbors high number of connected mobile users mobile access points availability of multiple networks and technologies e.g. sometimes within a same area etc. For example the mode of operation of the platform may be flexibly adapted from environment to environment based on each environment s respective requirements and needs which may be different from other environments. Additionally for example the platform may be flexibly optimized e.g. at design installation time and or in real time for different purposes e.g. to reduce the latency increase throughput reduce power consumption load balance increase reliability make more robust with regard to failures or other disturbances etc. for example based on the content service or data that the platform provides or handles within a particular environment.

In accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure many control and management services e.g. mobility security routing etc. are provided on top of the platform e.g. directly using control overlays using containers etc. such services being compatible with the services currently deployed on top of the Internet or other communication network s .

The communication network or platform in whole or in part may for example be operated in public and or private modes of operation for example depending on the use case. The platform may for example operate in a public or private mode of operation depending on the use case e.g. public Internet access municipal environment sensing fleet operation etc. .

Additionally for example in an implementation in which various network components are mobile the transportation and or signal control mechanisms may be adapted to serve the needs of the particular implementation. Also for example wireless transmission power and or rate may be adapted e.g. to mitigate interference to reduce power consumption to extend the life of network components etc.

Various example implementations of a platform in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure are capable of connecting different subsystems even when various other subsystems that may normally be utilized are unavailable. For example the platform may comprise various built in redundancies and fail recovery mechanisms. For example the platform may comprise a self healing capability self configuration capability self adaptation capability etc. The protocols and functions of the platform may for example be prepared to be autonomously and smoothly configured and adapted to the requirements and features of different environments characterized by different levels of mobility and density of things or objects the number types of access to those things. For example various aspects of the platform may gather context parameters that can influence any or all decisions. Such parameters may for example be derived locally gathered from a neighborhood Fixed APs the Cloud etc. Various aspects of the platform may also for example ask for historical information to feed any of the decisions where such information can be derived from historical data from surveys from simulators etc. Various aspects of the platform may additionally for example probe or monitor decisions made throughout the network for example to evaluate the network and or the decisions themselves in real time. Various aspects of the platform may further for example enforce the decisions in the network e.g. after evaluating the probing results . Various aspects of the platform may for example establish thresholds to avoid any decision that is to be constantly or repeatedly performed without any significant advantage e.g. technology change certificate change IP change etc. . Various aspects of the platform may also for example learn locally e.g. with the decisions performed and dynamically update the decisions.

In addition to or instead of failure robustness a platform may utilize multiple connections or pathways that exist between distinct sub systems or elements within the same sub system to increase the robustness and or load balancing of the system.

The following discussion will present examples of the functionality performed by various example subsystems of the communication network. It should be understood that the example functionality discussed herein need not be performed by the particular example subsystem or by a single subsystem. For example the subsystems present herein may interact with each other and data or control services may be deployed either in a centralized way or having their functionalities distributed among the different subsystems for example leveraging the cooperation between the elements of each subsystem.

Various aspects of the present disclosure provide a communication network e.g. a city wide vehicular network a shipping port sized vehicular network a campus wide vehicular network etc. that utilizes vehicles e.g. automobiles buses trucks boats forklifts etc. as Wi Fi hotspots. Note that Wi Fi is generally used throughout this discussion as an example but the scope of various aspects of this disclosure is not limited thereto. For example other wireless LAN technologies PAN technologies MAN technologies etc. may be utilized. Such utilization may for example provide cost effective ways to gather substantial amounts of urban data and provide for the efficient offloading of traffic from congested cellular networks or other networks . In controlled areas e.g. ports harbors etc. with many vehicles a communication network in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure may expand the wireless coverage of existing enterprise Wi Fi networks for example providing for real time communication with vehicle drivers e.g. human computer controlled etc. and other mobile employees without the need for SIM cards or cellular or other network data plans.

Vehicles may have many advantageous characteristics that make them useful as Wi Fi or general wireless hotspots. For example vehicles generally have at least one battery vehicles are generally densely spread over the city at street level and or they are able to establish many contacts with each other in a controlled space and vehicles can communicate with 10x the range of normal Wi Fi in the 5.9 GHz frequency band reserved for intelligent transportation systems in the EU the U.S. and elsewhere. Note that the scope of this disclosure is not limited to such 5.9 GHz wireless communication. Further vehicles are able to effectively expand their coverage area into a swath over a period of time enabling a single vehicle access point to interact with substantially more data sources over the period of time.

In accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure an affordable multi network on board unit OBU is presented. Note that the OBU may also be referred to herein as a mobile access point Mobile AP MAP etc. The OBU may for example comprise a plurality of networking interfaces e.g. Wi Fi 802.11p 4G Bluetooth UWB etc. . The OBU may for example be readily installed in or on private and or public vehicles e.g. individual user vehicles vehicles of private fleets vehicles of public fleets etc. . The OBU may for example be installed in transportation fleets waste management fleets law enforcement fleets emergency services road maintenance fleets taxi fleets aircraft fleets etc. The OBU may for example be installed in or on a vehicle or other structure with free mobility or relatively limited mobility. The OBU may also for example be carried by a person or service animal mounted to a bicycle mounted to a moving machine in general mounted to a container etc.

The OBUs may for example operate to connect passing vehicles to the wired infrastructure of one or more network providers telecom operators etc. In accordance with the architecture hardware and software functionality discussed herein vehicles and fleets can be connected not just to the cellular networks or other wide area or metropolitan area networks etc. and existing Wi Fi hotspots spread over a city or a controlled space but also to other vehicles e.g. utilizing multi hop communications to a wired infrastructure single or multi hop peer to peer vehicle communication etc. . The vehicles and or fleets may for example form an overall mesh of communication links for example including the OBUs and also fixed Access Points APs connected to the wired infrastructure e.g. a local infrastructure etc. . Note that OBUs herein may also be referred to as Mobile APs mobile hotspots MAPs etc. Also note that fixed access points may also be referred to herein as Road Side Units RSUs Fixed APs FAPs etc.

In an example implementation the OBUs may communicate with the Fixed APs utilizing a relatively long range protocol e.g. 802.11p etc. and the Fixed APs may in turn be hard wired to the wired infrastructure e.g. via cable tethered optical link etc. . Note that Fixed APs may also or alternatively be coupled to the infrastructure via wireless link e.g. 802.11p etc. . Additionally clients or user devices may communicate with the OBUs using one or more relatively short range protocols e.g. Wi Fi Bluetooth UWB etc. . The OBUs for example having a longer effective wireless communication range than typical Wi Fi access points or other wireless LAN PAN access points e.g. at least for links such as those based on 802.11p etc. are capable of substantially greater coverage areas than typical Wi Fi or other wireless LAN PAN access points and thus fewer OBUs are necessary to provide blanket coverage over a geographical area.

The OBU may for example comprise a robust vehicular networking module e.g. a connection manager which builds on long range communication protocol capability e.g. 802.11p etc. . For example in addition to comprising 802.11p or other long range protocol capability to communicate with Fixed APs vehicles and other nodes in the network the OBU may comprise a network interface e.g. 802.11a b g n 802.11ac 802.11af any combination thereof etc. to provide wireless local area network WLAN connectivity to end user devices sensors fixed Wi Fi access points etc. For example the OBU may operate to provide in vehicle Wi Fi Internet access to users in and or around the vehicle e.g. a bus train car taxi cab public works vehicle etc. . The OBU may further comprise one or more wireless backbone communication interfaces e.g. cellular network interfaces etc. . Though in various example scenarios a cellular network interface or other wireless backbone communication interface might not be the preferred interface for various reasons e.g. cost power bandwidth etc. the cellular network interface may be utilized to provide connectivity in geographical areas that are not presently supported by a Fixed AP may be utilized to provide a fail over communication link may be utilized for emergency communications may be utilized to subscribe to local infrastructure access etc. The cellular network interface may also for example be utilized to allow the deployment of solutions that are dependent on the cellular network operators.

An OBU in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure may for example comprise a smart connection manager that can select the best available wireless link s e.g. Wi Fi 802.11p cellular vehicle mesh etc. with which to access the Internet. The OBU may also for example provide geo location capabilities e.g. GPS etc. motion detection sensors to determine if the vehicle is in motion and a power control subsystem e.g. to ensure that the OBU does not deplete the vehicle battery etc. . The OBU may for example comprise any or all of the sensors e.g. environmental sensors etc. discussed herein.

The OBU may also for example comprise a manager that manages machine to machine data acquisition and transfer e.g. in a real time or delay tolerant fashion to and from the Cloud. For example the OBU may log and or communicate information of the vehicles.

The OBU may for example comprise a connection and or routing manager that operates to perform routing of communications in a vehicle to vehicle vehicle to infrastructure multi hop communication. A mobility manager or controller MC may for example ensure that communication sessions persist over one or more handoff s also referred to herein as a handover or handovers e.g. between different Mobile APs Fixed APs base stations hot spots etc. among different technologies e.g. 802.11p cellular Wi Fi satellite etc. among different MCs e.g. in a fail over scenario load redistribution scenario etc. across different interfaces or ports etc. Note that the MC may also be referred to herein as a Local Mobility Anchor LMA a Network Controller NC etc. Note that the MC or a plurality thereof may for example be implemented as part of the backbone but may also or alternatively be implemented as part of any of a variety of components or combinations thereof. For example the MC may be implemented in a Fixed AP or distributed system thereof as part of an OBU or a distributed system thereof etc. Various non limiting examples of system components and or methods are provided in U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 222 098 filed Sep. 22 2015 and titled Systems and Method for Managing Mobility in a Network of Moving Things the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference. Note that in an example implementation including a plurality of MCs such MCs may be co located and or may be geographically distributed.

Various aspects of the present disclosure also provide a Cloud based service oriented architecture that handles the real time management monitoring and reporting of the network and clients the functionalities required for data storage processing and management the Wi Fi client authentication and Captive Portal display etc.

A communication network or component thereof in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure may for example support a wide range of smart city applications or controlled scenarios or connected scenarios etc. and or use cases as described herein.

For example an example implementation may operate to turn each vehicle e.g. both public and private taxis buses trucks etc. into a Mobile AP e.g. a mobile Wi Fi hotspot offering Internet access to employees passengers and mobile users travelling in the city waiting in bus stops sitting in parks etc. Moreover through an example vehicular mesh network formed between vehicles and or fleets of vehicles an implementation may be operable to offload cellular traffic through the mobile Wi Fi hotspots and or Fixed APs e.g. 802.11p based APs spread over the city and connected to the wired infrastructure of public or private telecom operators in strategic places while ensuring the widest possible coverage at the lowest possible cost.

An example implementation e.g. of a communication network and or components thereof may for example be operable as a massive urban scanner that gathers large amounts of data e.g. continuously on the move actionable or not generated by a myriad of sources spanning from the in vehicle sensors or On Board Diagnostic System port e.g. OBD2 etc. external Wi Fi Bluetooth enabled sensing units spread over the city devices of vehicles drivers and passengers e.g. information characterizing such devices and or passengers etc. positioning system devices e.g. position information velocity information trajectory information travel history information etc. etc.

Depending on the use case the OBU may for example process or computer transform manipulate aggregate summarize etc. the data before sending the data from the vehicle for example providing the appropriate granularity e.g. value resolution and sampling rates e.g. temporal resolution for each individual application. For example the OBU may for example process the data in any manner deemed advantageous by the system. The OBU may for example send the collected data e.g. raw data preprocessed data information of metrics calculated based on the collected data etc. to the Cloud e.g. to one or more networked servers coupled to any portion of the network in an efficient and reliable manner to improve the efficiency environmental impact and social value of municipal city operations and transportation services. Various example use cases are described herein.

In an example scenario in which public buses are moving along city routes and or taxis are performing their private transportation services the OBU is able to collect large quantities of real time data from the positioning systems e.g. GPS etc. from accelerometer modules etc. The OBU may then for example communicate such data to the Cloud where the data may be processed reported and viewed for example to support such public or private bus and or taxi operations for example supporting efficient remote monitoring and scheduling of buses and taxis respectively.

In an example implementation small cameras or other sensors may be coupled to small single board computers SBCs that are placed above the doors of public buses to allow capturing image sequences of people entering and leaving buses and or on stops along the bus routes in order to estimate the number of people waiting for a bus. Such data may be gathered by the OBU in order to be sent to the Cloud. With such data public transportation systems may detect peaks overcrowded buses routes and stops underutilized buses routes and stops etc. enabling action to be taken in real time e.g. reducing bus periodicity to decrease fuel costs and COemissions where and when passenger flows are smaller etc. as well as detecting systematic transportation problems.

An OBU may for example be operable to communicate with any of a variety of Wi Fi enabled sensor devices equipped with a heterogeneous collection of environmental sensors. Such sensors may for example comprise noise sensors microphones etc. gas sensors e.g. sensing CO NO O volatile organic compounds or VOCs CO etc. smoke sensors pollution sensors meteorological sensors e.g. sensing temperature humidity luminosity particles solar radiation wind speed e.g. anemometer wind direction rain e.g. a pluviometer optical scanners biometric scanners cameras microphones etc. . Such sensors may also comprise sensors associated with users e.g. vehicle operators or passengers passersby etc. and or their personal devices e.g. smart phones or watches biometrics sensors wearable sensors implanted sensors etc. . Such sensors may for example comprise sensors and or systems associated with on board diagnostic OBD units for vehicles. Such sensors may for example comprise positioning sensors e.g. GPS sensors Galileo sensors GLONASS sensors etc. . Such sensors may for example comprise container sensors e.g. garbage can sensors shipping container sensors container environmental sensors container tracking sensors etc. .

Once a vehicle enters the vicinity of such a sensor device a wireless link may be established so that the vehicle or OBU thereof can collect sensor data from the sensor device and upload the collected data to a database in the Cloud. The appropriate action can then be taken. In an example waste management implementation several waste management or collection trucks may be equipped with OBUs that are able to periodically communicate with sensors installed on containers in order to gather information about waste level time passed since last collection etc. Such information may then sent to the Cloud e.g. to a waste management application coupled to the Internet etc. through the vehicular mesh network in order to improve the scheduling and or routing of waste management trucks. Note that various sensors may always be in range of the Mobile AP e.g. vehicle mounted sensors . Note that the sensor may also or alternatively be mobile e.g. a sensor mounted to another vehicle passing by a Mobile AP or Fixed AP a drone mounted sensor a pedestrian mounted sensor etc. .

In an example implementation for example in a controlled space e.g. a port harbor airport factory plantation mine etc. with many vehicles machines and employees a communication network in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure may expand the wireless coverage of enterprise and or local Wi Fi networks for example without resorting to a Telco dependent solution based on SIM cards or cellular fees. In such an example scenario apart from avoiding expensive cellular data plans limited data rate and poor cellular coverage in some places a communication network in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure is also able to collect and or communicate large amounts of data in a reliable and real time manner where such data may be used to optimize harbor logistics transportation operations etc.

For example in a port and or harbor implementation by gathering real time information on the position speed fuel consumption and COemissions of the vehicles the communication network allows a port operator to improve the coordination of the ship loading processes and increase the throughput of the harbor. Also for example the communication network enables remote monitoring of drivers behaviors trucks positions and engines status and then be able to provide real time notifications to drivers e.g. to turn on off the engine follow the right route inside the harbor take a break etc. thus reducing the number and duration of the harbor services and trips. Harbor authorities may for example quickly detect malfunctioning trucks and abnormal trucks circulation thus avoiding accidents in order to increase harbor efficiency security and safety. Additionally the vehicles can also connect to Wi Fi access points from harbor local operators and provide Wi Fi Internet access to vehicles occupants and surrounding harbor employees for example allowing pilots to save time by filing reports via the Internet while still on the water.

The example network for example comprises a Cloud that may for example comprise any of a variety of network level components. The Cloud may for example comprise any of a variety of server systems executing applications that monitor and or control components of the network . Such applications may also for example manage the collection of information from any of a large array of networked information sources many examples of which are discussed herein. The Cloud or a portion thereof may also be referred to at times as an API. For example Cloud or a portion thereof may provide one or more application programming interfaces APIs which other devices may use for communicating interacting with the Cloud.

An example component of the Cloud may for example manage interoperability with various multi Cloud systems and architectures. Another example component e.g. a Cloud service component may for example provide various Cloud services e.g. captive portal services authentication authorization and accounting AAA services API Gateway services etc. . An additional example component e.g. a DevCenter component may for example provide network monitoring and or management functionality manage the implementation of software updates etc. A further example component of the Cloud may manage data storage data analytics data access etc. A still further example component of the Cloud may include any of a variety of third partly applications and services.

The Cloud may for example be coupled to the Backbone Core Infrastructure of the example network via the Internet e.g. utilizing one or more Internet Service Providers . Though the Internet is provided by example it should be understood that scope of the present disclosure is not limited thereto.

The Backbone Core may for example comprise any one or more different communication infrastructure components. For example one or more providers may provide backbone networks or various components thereof. As shown in the example network illustrated in a Backbone provider may provide wireline access e.g. PSTN fiber cable etc. . Also for example a Backbone provider may provide wireless access e.g. Microwave LTE Cellular 5G TV Spectrum etc. .

The Backbone Core may also for example comprise one or more Local Infrastructure Providers. The Backbone Core may also for example comprise a private infrastructure e.g. run by the network implementer owner etc. . The Backbone Core may for example provide any of a variety of Backbone Services e.g. AAA Mobility Monitoring Addressing Routing Content services Gateway Control services etc. .

The Backbone Core Infrastructure may comprise any of a variety of characteristics non limiting examples of which are provided herein. For example the Backbone Core may be compatible with different wireless or wired technologies for backbone access. The Backbone Core may also be adaptable to handle public e.g. municipal city campus etc. and or private e.g. ports campus etc. network infrastructures owned by different local providers and or owned by the network implementer or stakeholder. The Backbone Core may for example comprise and or interface with different Authentication Authorization and Accounting AAA mechanisms.

The Backbone Core Infrastructure may for example support different modes of operation e.g. L2 in port implementations L3 in on land public transportation implementations utilizing any one or more of a plurality of different layers of digital IP networking any combinations thereof equivalents thereof etc. or addressing pools. The Backbone Core may also for example be agnostic to the Cloud provider s and or Internet Service Provider s . Additionally for example the Backbone Core may be agnostic to requests coming from any or all subsystems of the network e.g. Mobile APs or OBUs On Board Units Fixed APs or RSUs Road Side Units MCs Mobility Controllers or LMAs Local Mobility Anchors or Network Controllers etc. and or third party systems.

The Backbone Core Infrastructure may for example comprise the ability to utilize and or interface with different data storage processing systems e.g. MongoDB MySql Redis etc. . The Backbone Core Infrastructure may further for example provide different levels of simultaneous access to the infrastructure services data etc.

The example network may also for example comprise a Fixed Hotspot Access Network. Various example characteristics of such a Fixed Hotspot Access Network are shown at . The example network may for example share any or all characteristics with the other example networks and or network components and discussed herein.

In the example network the Fixed APs e.g. the proprietary APs the public third party APs the private third party APs etc. may be directly connected to the local infrastructure provider and or to the wireline wireless backbone. Also for example the example network may comprise a mesh between the various APs via wireless technologies. Note however that various wired technologies may also be utilized depending on the implementation. As shown different fixed hotspot access networks can be connected to a same backbone provider but may also be connected to different respective backbone providers. In an example implementation utilizing wireless technology for backbone access such an implementation may be relatively fault tolerant. For example a Fixed AP may utilize wireless communications to the backbone network e.g. cellular 3G LTE other wide or metropolitan area networks etc. if the backhaul infrastructure is down. Also for example such an implementation may provide for relatively easy installation e.g. a Fixed AP with no cable power source that can be placed virtually anywhere .

In the example network the same Fixed AP can simultaneously provide access to multiple Fixed APs Mobile APs e.g. vehicle OBUs etc. devices user devices sensors things etc. For example a plurality of mobile hotspot access networks e.g. OBU based networks etc. may utilize the same Fixed AP. Also for example the same Fixed AP can provide a plurality of simultaneous accesses to another single unit e.g. another Fixed AP Mobile AP device etc. for example utilizing different channels different radios etc. .

Note that a plurality of Fixed APs may be utilized for fault tolerance fail recovery purposes. In an example implementation a Fixed AP and its fail over AP may both be normally operational e.g. in a same switch . Also for example one or more Fixed APs may be placed in the network at various locations in an inactive or monitoring mode and ready to become operational when needed e.g. in response to a fault in response to an emergency services need in response to a data surge etc. .

Referring back to the example Fixed Hotspot Access Network is shown with a wireless communication link to a backbone provider e.g. to one or more Backbone Providers and or Local Infrastructure Providers to a Mobile Hotspot Access Network to one or more End User Devices and to the Environment. Also the example Fixed Hotspot Access Network is shown with a wired communication link to one or more Backbone Providers to the Mobile Hotspot Access Network to one or more End User Devices and to the Environment. The Environment may comprise any of a variety of devices e.g. in vehicle networks devices and sensors autonomous vehicle networks devices and sensors maritime or watercraft and port networks devices and sensors general controlled space networks devices and sensors residential networks devices and sensors disaster recovery emergency networks devices and sensors military and aircraft networks devices and sensors smart city networks devices and sensors event or venue networks devices and sensors underwater and underground networks devices and sensors agricultural networks devices and sensors tunnel auto subway train etc. networks devices and sensors parking networks devices and sensors security and surveillance networks devices and sensors shipping equipment and container networks devices and sensors environmental control or monitoring networks devices and sensors municipal networks devices and sensors waste management networks devices and sensors road maintenance networks devices and sensors traffic management networks devices and sensors advertising networks devices and sensors etc. .

The example network of also comprises a Mobile Hotspot Access Network. Various example characteristics of such a Mobile Hotspot Access Network are shown at . Note that various fixed network components e.g. Fixed APs are also illustrated. The example network may for example share any or all characteristics with the other example networks and or network components and discussed herein.

The example network comprises a wide variety of Mobile APs or hotspots that provide access to user devices provide for sensor data collection provide multi hop connectivity to other Mobile APs etc. For example the example network comprises vehicles from different fleets e.g. aerial terrestrial underground under water etc. . For example the example network comprises one or more mass distribution transportation fleets one or more mass passenger transportation fleets private public shared user fleets private vehicles urban and municipal fleets maintenance fleets drones watercraft e.g. boats ships speedboats tugboats barges etc. emergency fleets e.g. police ambulance firefighter etc. etc.

The example network for example shows vehicles from different fleets directly connected and or mesh connected for example using same or different communication technologies. The example network also shows fleets simultaneously connected to different Fixed APs which may or may not belong to different respective local infrastructure providers. As a fault tolerance mechanism the example network may for example comprise the utilization of long range wireless communication network e.g. cellular 3G 4G LTE etc. in vehicles if the local network infrastructure is down or otherwise unavailable. A same vehicle e.g. Mobile AP or OBU can simultaneously provide access to multiple vehicles devices things etc. for example using a same communication technology e.g. shared channels and or different respective channels thereof and or using a different respective communication technology for each. Also for example a same vehicle can provide multiple accesses to another vehicle device thing etc. for example using a same communication technology e.g. shared channels and or different respective channels thereof and or using a different communication technology .

Additionally multiple network elements may be connected together to provide for fault tolerance or fail recovery increased throughput or to achieve any or a variety of a client s networking needs many of examples of which are provided herein. For example two Mobile APs or OBUs may be installed in a same vehicle etc.

Referring back to the example Mobile Hotspot Access Network is shown with a wireless communication link to a backbone provider e.g. to one or more Backbone Providers and or Local Infrastructure Providers to a Fixed Hotspot Access Network to one or more End User Device and to the Environment e.g. to any one of more of the sensors or systems discussed herein any other device or machine etc. . Though the Mobile Hotspot Access Network is not shown having a wired link to the various other components there may at least at times be such a wired link at least temporarily.

The example network of also comprises a set of End User Devices. Various example end user devices are shown at . Note that various other network components e.g. Fixed Hotspot Access Networks Mobile Hotspot Access Network s the Backbone Core etc. are also illustrated. The example network may for example share any or all characteristics with the other example networks and or network components and discussed herein.

The example network shows various mobile networked devices. Such network devices may comprise end user devices e.g. smartphones tablets smartwatches laptop computers webcams personal gaming devices personal navigation devices personal media devices personal cameras health monitoring devices personal location devices monitoring panels printers etc. . Such networked devices may also comprise any of a variety of devices operating in the general environment where such devices might not for example be associated with a particular user e.g. any or all of the sensor devices discussed herein vehicle sensors municipal sensors fleet sensors road sensors environmental sensors security sensors traffic sensors waste sensors meteorological sensors any of a variety of different types of municipal or enterprise equipment etc. . Any of such networked devices can be flexibly connected to distinct backbone fixed hotspot access networks mobile hotspot access networks etc. using the same or different wired wireless technologies.

A mobile device may for example operate as an AP to provide simultaneous access to multiple devices things which may then form ad hoc networks interconnecting devices ultimately connected to distinct backbone networks fixed hotspot and or mobile hotspot access networks. Devices e.g. any or all of the devices or network nodes discussed herein may for example have redundant technologies to access distinct backbone fixed hotspot and or mobile hotspot access networks for example for fault tolerance and or load balancing purposes e.g. utilizing multiple SIM cards etc. . A device may also for example simultaneously access distinct backbone fixed hotspot access networks and or mobile hotspot access networks belonging to the same provider or to different respective providers. Additionally for example a device can provide multiple accesses to another device thing e.g. via different channels radios etc. .

Referring back to the example End User Devices are shown with a wireless communication link to a backbone provider e.g. to one or more Backbone Providers and or Local Infrastructure Providers to a Fixed Hotspot Access Network to a Mobile Hotspot Access Network and to the Environment. Also for example the example End User Devices are shown with a wired communication link to a backbone provider to a Fixed Hotspot Access Network to a Mobile Hotspot Access Network and to the Environment.

The example network illustrated in has a flexible architecture that is adaptable at implementation time e.g. for different use cases and or adaptable in real time for example as network components enter and leave service. illustrate such flexibility by providing example modes or configurations . The example networks may for example share any or all characteristics with the other example networks and or network components and discussed herein. For example and without limitation any or all of the communication links e.g. wired links wireless links etc. shown in the example networks are generally analogous to similarly positioned communication links shown in the example network of .

For example various aspects of this disclosure provide communication network architectures systems and methods for supporting a dynamically configurable communication network comprising a complex array of both static and moving communication nodes e.g. the Internet of moving things . For example a communication network implemented in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure may operate in one of a plurality of modalities comprising various fixed nodes mobile nodes and or a combination thereof which are selectable to yield any of a variety of system goals e.g. increased throughput reduced latency and packet loss increased availability and robustness of the system extra redundancy increased responsiveness increased security in the transmission of data and or control packets reduced number of configuration changes by incorporating smart thresholds e.g. change of technology change of certificate change of IP etc. providing connectivity in dead zones or zones with difficult access reducing the costs for maintenance and accessing the equipment for updating upgrading etc. . At least some of such modalities may for example be entirely comprised of fixed position nodes at least temporarily if not permanently.

For illustrative simplicity many of the example aspects shown in the example system or network of and other Figures herein are omitted from but may be present. For example the Cloud Internet and ISP aspects shown in and in other Figures are not explicitly shown in but may be present in any of the example configurations e.g. as part of the backbone provider network or coupled thereto as part of the local infrastructure provider network or coupled thereto etc. .

For example the first example mode is presented as a normal execution mode for example a mode or configuration in which all of the components discussed herein are present. For example the communication system in the first example mode comprises a backbone provider network a local infrastructure provider network a fixed hotspot access network a mobile hotspot access network end user devices and environment devices.

As shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the first example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network or any component thereof fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via a wired link. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary. Also note that in various example configurations the backbone provider network may also at least temporarily be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof via one or more wired or tethered links.

Also shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the first example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Also note that in various example configurations the backbone provider network may also be communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network via one or more wireless or non tethered links.

Though not shown in the first example mode or any of the example modes of one or more servers may be communicatively coupled to the backbone provider network and or the local infrastructure network. provides an example of Cloud servers being communicatively coupled to the backbone provider network via the Internet.

As additionally shown in and in in more detail the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the first example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the backbone provider network or any component thereof fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wired links. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary. Also note that in various example configurations the local infrastructure provider network may also at least temporarily be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof via one or more wired or tethered links.

Also though not explicitly shown the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the first example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the backbone provider network or any component thereof the fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Note that the communication link shown in the first example mode of between the local infrastructure provider network and the fixed hotspot access network may be wired and or wireless.

The fixed hotspot access network is also shown in the first example mode to be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Additionally the mobile hotspot access network is further shown in the first example mode to be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Further the end user devices are also shown in the first example mode to be communicatively coupled to the environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Note that in various example implementations any of such wireless links may instead or in addition comprise a wired or tethered link.

In the first example mode e.g. the normal mode information or data may be communicated between an end user device and a server e.g. a computer system via the mobile hotspot access network the fixed hotspot access network the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network. As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an end user device and a server via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc. For example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the fixed hotspot access network the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network . Also for example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network fixed hotspot access network and or local infrastructure provider network .

Similarly in the first example mode e.g. the normal mode information or data may be communicated between an environment device and a server via the mobile hotspot access network the fixed hotspot access network the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network. Also for example an environment device may communicate with or through an end user device e.g. instead of or in addition to the mobile hotspot access network . As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an environment device and a server e.g. communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network and or backbone provider network via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc.

For example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the fixed hotspot access network the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network . Also for example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network fixed hotspot access network and or local infrastructure provider network . Additionally for example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network and or fixed hotspot access network .

As discussed herein the example networks presented herein are adaptively configurable to operate in any of a variety of different modes or configurations . Such adaptive configuration may occur at initial installation and or during subsequent controlled network evolution e.g. adding or removing any or all of the network components discussed herein expanding or removing network capacity adding or removing coverage areas adding or removing services etc. . Such adaptive configuration may also occur in real time for example in response to real time changes in network conditions e.g. networks or components thereof being available or not based on vehicle or user device movement network or component failure network or component replacement or augmentation activity network overloading etc. . The following example modes are presented to illustrate characteristics of various modes in which a communication system may operate in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure. The following example modes will generally be discussed in relation to the first example mode e.g. the normal execution mode . Note that such example modes are merely illustrative and not limiting.

The second example mode or configuration e.g. a no backbone available mode may for example share any or all characteristics with the first example mode albeit without the backbone provider network and communication links therewith. For example the communication system in the second example mode comprises a local infrastructure provider network a fixed hotspot access network a mobile hotspot access network end user devices and environment devices.

As shown in and in in more detail the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the second example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wired links. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary. Also note that in various example configurations the local infrastructure provider network may also at least temporarily be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof via one or more wired or tethered links.

Also though not explicitly shown the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the second example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Note that the communication link s shown in the second example mode of between the local infrastructure provider network and the fixed hotspot access network may be wired and or wireless.

The fixed hotspot access network is also shown in the second example mode to be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Additionally the mobile hotspot access network is further shown in the second example mode to be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Further the end user devices are also shown in the second example mode to be communicatively coupled to the environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Note that in various example implementations any of such wireless links may instead or in addition comprise a wired or tethered link.

In the second example mode e.g. the no backbone available mode information or data may be communicated between an end user device and a server e.g. a computer etc. via the mobile hotspot access network the fixed hotspot access network and or the local infrastructure provider network. As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an end user device and a server via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc. For example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the fixed hotspot access network and or the local infrastructure provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network . Also for example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network and or fixed hotspot access network .

Similarly in the second example mode e.g. the no backbone available mode information or data may be communicated between an environment device and a server via the mobile hotspot access network the fixed hotspot access network and or the local infrastructure provider network. Also for example an environment device may communicate with or through an end user device e.g. instead of or in addition to the mobile hotspot access network . As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an environment device and a server e.g. communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc.

For example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the fixed hotspot access network and or the local infrastructure provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network . Also for example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network and or fixed hotspot access network .

The second example mode may be utilized for any of a variety of reasons non limiting examples of which are provided herein. For example due to security and or privacy goals the second example mode may be utilized so that communication access to the public Cloud systems the Internet in general etc. is not allowed. For example all network control and management functions may be within the local infrastructure provider network e.g. wired local network etc. and or the fixed access point network.

In an example implementation the communication system might be totally owned operated and or controlled by a local port authority. No extra expenses associated with cellular connections need be spent. For example cellular connection capability e.g. in Mobile APs Fixed APs end user devices environment devices etc. need not be provided. Note also that the second example mode may be utilized in a scenario in which the backbone provider network is normally available but is currently unavailable e.g. due to server failure due to communication link failure due to power outage due to a temporary denial of service etc. .

The third example mode or configuration e.g. a no local infrastructure and fixed hotspots available mode may for example share any or all characteristics with the first example mode albeit without the local infrastructure provider network the fixed hotspot access network and communication links therewith. For example the communication system in the third example mode comprises a backbone provider network a mobile hotspot access network end user devices and environment devices.

As shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the third example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wired links. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary. Also note that in various example configurations the backbone provider network may also at least temporarily be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof via one or more wired or tethered links.

Also shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the third example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links.

The mobile hotspot access network is further shown in the third example mode to be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Further the end user devices are also shown in the third example mode to be communicatively coupled to the environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Note that in various example implementations any of such wireless links may instead or in addition comprise a wired or tethered link.

In the third example mode e.g. the no local infrastructure and fixed hotspots available mode information or data may be communicated between an end user device and a server e.g. a computer etc. via the mobile hotspot access network and or the backbone provider network. As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an end user device and a server via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc. For example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network .

Similarly in the third example mode e.g. the no local infrastructure and fixed hotspots available mode information or data may be communicated between an environment device and a server via the mobile hotspot access network and or the backbone provider network. Also for example an environment device may communicate with or through an end user device e.g. instead of or in addition to the mobile hotspot access network . As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an environment device and a server e.g. communicatively coupled to the backbone provider network via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc. For example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network .

In the third example mode all control management functions may for example be implemented within the Cloud. For example since the mobile hotspot access network does not have a communication link via a fixed hotspot access network the Mobile APs may utilize a direct connection e.g. a cellular connection with the backbone provider network or Cloud . If a Mobile AP does not have such capability the Mobile AP may also for example utilize data access provided by the end user devices communicatively coupled thereto e.g. leveraging the data plans of the end user devices .

The third example mode may be utilized for any of a variety of reasons non limiting examples of which are provided herein. In an example implementation the third example mode may be utilized in an early stage of a larger deployment for example deployment that will grow into another mode e.g. the example first mode example fourth mode etc. as more communication system equipment is installed. Note also that the third example mode may be utilized in a scenario in which the local infrastructure provider network and fixed hotspot access network are normally available but are currently unavailable e.g. due to equipment failure due to communication link failure due to power outage due to a temporary denial of service etc. .

The fourth example mode or configuration e.g. a no fixed hotspots available mode may for example share any or all characteristics with the first example mode albeit without the fixed hotspot access network and communication links therewith. For example the communication system in the fourth example mode comprises a backbone provider network a local infrastructure provider network a mobile hotspot access network end user devices and environment devices.

As shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the fourth example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wired links. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary. Also note that in various example configurations the backbone provider network may also at least temporarily be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof via one or more wired or tethered links.

Also shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the fourth example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Also note that in various example configurations the backbone provider network may also be communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network via one or more wireless or non tethered links.

As additionally shown in and in in more detail the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the fourth example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the backbone provider network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wired links. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary. Also note that in various example configurations the local infrastructure provider network may also at least temporarily be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof via one or more wired or tethered links.

Also though not explicitly shown the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the fourth example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the backbone provider network or any component thereof the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links.

The mobile hotspot access network is further shown in the fourth example mode to be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Further the end user devices are also shown in the fourth example mode to be communicatively coupled to the environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein.

In the fourth example mode e.g. the no fixed hotspots mode information or data may be communicated between an end user device and a server via the mobile hotspot access network the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network. As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an end user device and a server via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc. For example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network . Also for example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network and or local infrastructure provider network .

Similarly in the fourth example mode e.g. the no fixed hotspots available mode information or data may be communicated between an environment device and a server via the mobile hotspot access network the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network. Also for example an environment device may communicate with or through an end user device e.g. instead of or in addition to the mobile hotspot access network . As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an environment device and a server e.g. communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network and or backbone provider network via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc.

For example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network . Also for example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network and or local infrastructure provider network . Additionally for example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network and or backbone provider network .

In the fourth example mode in an example implementation some of the control management functions may for example be implemented within the local backbone provider network e.g. within a client premises . For example communication to the local infrastructure provider may be performed through the backbone provider network or Cloud . Note that in a scenario in which there is a direct communication pathway between the local infrastructure provider network and the mobile hotspot access network such communication pathway may be utilized.

For example since the mobile hotspot access network does not have a communication link via a fixed hotspot access network the Mobile APs may utilize a direct connection e.g. a cellular connection with the backbone provider network or Cloud . If a Mobile AP does not have such capability the Mobile AP may also for example utilize data access provided by the end user devices communicatively coupled thereto e.g. leveraging the data plans of the end user devices .

The fourth example mode may be utilized for any of a variety of reasons non limiting examples of which are provided herein. In an example implementation the fourth example mode may be utilized in an early stage of a larger deployment for example a deployment that will grow into another mode e.g. the example first mode etc. as more communication system equipment is installed. The fourth example mode may for example be utilized in a scenario in which there is no fiber or other connection available for Fixed APs e.g. in a maritime scenario in a plantation scenario etc. or in which a Fixed AP is difficult to access or connect. For example one or more Mobile APs of the mobile hotspot access network may be used as gateways to reach the Cloud. The fourth example mode may also for example be utilized when a vehicle fleet and or the Mobile APs associated therewith are owned by a first entity and the Fixed APs are owned by another entity and there is no present agreement for communication between the Mobile APs and the Fixed APs. Note also that the fourth example mode may be utilized in a scenario in which the fixed hotspot access network is normally available but are currently unavailable e.g. due to equipment failure due to communication link failure due to power outage due to a temporary denial of service etc. .

The fifth example mode or configuration e.g. a no mobile hotspots available mode may for example share any or all characteristics with the first example mode albeit without the mobile hotspot access network and communication links therewith. For example the communication system in the fifth example mode comprises a backbone provider network a local infrastructure provider network a fixed hotspot access network end user devices and environment devices.

As shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the fifth example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network or any component thereof fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wired links. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary.

Also shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the fifth example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Also note that in various example configurations the backbone provider network may also be communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network via one or more wireless or non tethered links.

As additionally shown in and in in more detail the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the fifth example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the backbone provider network or any component thereof fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wired links. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary. Also note that in various example configurations the local infrastructure provider network may also at least temporarily be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof via one or more wired or tethered links.

Also though not explicitly shown the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the fifth example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the backbone provider network the fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Note that the communication link s shown in the fifth example mode of between the local infrastructure provider network and the fixed hotspot access network may be wired and or wireless.

The fixed hotspot access network is also shown in the fifth example mode to be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Further the end user devices are also shown in the fifth example mode to be communicatively coupled to the environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein.

In the fifth example mode e.g. the no mobile hotspots available mode information or data may be communicated between an end user device and a server via the fixed hotspot access network the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network. As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an end user device and a server via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc. For example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the fixed hotspot access network . Also for example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the fixed hotspot access network and or local infrastructure provider network .

Similarly in the fifth example mode e.g. the no mobile hotspots available mode information or data may be communicated between an environment device and a server via the fixed hotspot access network the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network. Also for example an environment device may communicate with or through an end user device e.g. instead of or in addition to the fixed hotspot access network . As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an environment device and a server e.g. communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network and or backbone provider network via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc.

For example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the fixed hotspot access network . Also for example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the fixed hotspot access network and or local infrastructure provider network . Additionally for example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network e.g. skipping the fixed hotspot access network and or the backbone provider network .

In the fifth example mode in an example implementation the end user devices and environment devices may communicate directly to Fixed APs e.g. utilizing Ethernet Wi Fi etc. . Also for example the end user devices and or environment devices may communicate directly with the backbone provider network e.g. utilizing cellular connections etc. .

The fifth example mode may be utilized for any of a variety of reasons non limiting examples of which are provided herein. In an example implementation in which end user devices and or environment devices may communicate directly with Fixed APs such communication may be utilized instead of Mobile AP communication. For example the fixed hotspot access network might provide coverage for all desired areas.

Note also that the fifth example mode may be utilized in a scenario in which the fixed hotspot access network is normally available but is currently unavailable e.g. due to equipment failure due to communication link failure due to power outage due to a temporary denial of service etc. .

The sixth example mode or configuration e.g. the no fixed mobile hotspots and local infrastructure available mode may for example share any or all characteristics with the first example mode albeit without the local infrastructure provider network fixed hotspot access network mobile hotspot access network and communication links therewith. For example the communication system in the sixth example mode comprises a backbone provider network end user devices and environment devices.

As shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the sixth example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wired links. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary.

Also shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the sixth example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links.

The end user devices are also shown in the sixth example mode to be communicatively coupled to the environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein.

In the sixth example mode e.g. the no fixed mobile hotspots and local infrastructure available mode information or data may be communicated between an end user device and a server via the backbone provider network. Similarly in the sixth example mode e.g. the no fixed mobile hotspots and local infrastructure mode information or data may be communicated between an environment device and a server via the backbone provider network. Also for example an environment device may communicate with or through an end user device e.g. instead of or in addition to the mobile hotspot access network .

The sixth example mode may be utilized for any of a variety of reasons non limiting examples of which are provided herein. In an example implementation for example in which an end user has not yet subscribed to the communication system the end user device may subscribe to the system through a Cloud application and by communicating directly with the backbone provider network e.g. via cellular link etc. . The sixth example mode may also for example be utilized in rural areas in which Mobile AP presence is sparse Fixed AP installation is difficult or impractical etc.

Note also that the sixth example mode may be utilized in a scenario in which the infrastructure provider network fixed hotspot access network and or mobile hotspot access network are normally available but are currently unavailable e.g. due to equipment failure due to communication link failure due to power outage due to a temporary denial of service etc. .

The seventh example mode or configuration e.g. the no backbone and mobile hotspots available mode may for example share any or all characteristics with the first example mode albeit without the backbone provider network mobile hotspot access network and communication links therewith. For example the communication system in the seventh example mode comprises a local infrastructure provider network fixed hotspot access network end user devices and environment devices.

As shown in and in in more detail the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the seventh example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wired links. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary.

Also though not explicitly shown the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the seventh example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Note that the communication link shown in the seventh example mode of between the local infrastructure provider network and the fixed hotspot access network may be wired and or wireless.

The fixed hotspot access network is also shown in the seventh example mode to be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Additionally the end user devices are also shown in the seventh example mode to be communicatively coupled to the environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein.

In the seventh example mode e.g. the no backbone and mobile hotspots available mode information or data may be communicated between an end user device and a server via the fixed hotspot access network and or the local infrastructure provider network. As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an end user device and a server via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc. For example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network e.g. skipping the fixed hotspot access network .

Similarly in the seventh example mode e.g. the no backbone and mobile hotspots available mode information or data may be communicated between an environment device and a server via the fixed hotspot access network and or the local infrastructure provider network. Also for example an environment device may communicate with or through an end user device e.g. instead of or in addition to the mobile hotspot access network . As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an environment device and a server e.g. communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc. For example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network e.g. skipping the fixed hotspot access network .

The seventh example mode may be utilized for any of a variety of reasons non limiting examples of which are provided herein. In an example controlled space implementation Cloud access might not be provided e.g. for security reasons privacy reasons etc. and full or sufficient coverage of the coverage area is provided by the fixed hotspot access network and thus the mobile hotspot access network is not needed. For example the end user devices and environment devices may communicate directly e.g. via Ethernet Wi Fi etc. with the Fixed APs

Note also that the seventh example mode may be utilized in a scenario in which the backbone provider network and or fixed hotspot access network are normally available but are currently unavailable e.g. due to equipment failure due to communication link failure due to power outage due to a temporary denial of service etc. .

The eighth example mode or configuration e.g. the no backbone fixed hotspots and local infrastructure available mode may for example share any or all characteristics with the first example mode albeit without the backbone provider network local infrastructure provider network fixed hotspot access network and communication links therewith. For example the communication system in the eighth example mode comprises a mobile hotspot access network end user devices and environment devices.

As shown in and in in more detail the mobile hotspot access network is shown in the eighth example mode to be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Further the end user devices are also shown in the eighth example mode to be communicatively coupled to the environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein.

In the eighth example mode e.g. the no backbone fixed hotspots and local infrastructure available mode information or data might not at least currently be communicated between an end user device and a server e.g. a coupled to the backbone provider network local infrastructure provider network etc. . Similarly information or data might not at least currently be communicated between an environment device and a server e.g. a coupled to the backbone provider network local infrastructure provider network etc. . Note that the environment device may communicate with or through an end user device e.g. instead of or in addition to the mobile hotspot access network .

The eighth example mode may be utilized for any of a variety of reasons non limiting examples of which are provided herein. In an example implementation the eighth example mode may be utilized for gathering and or serving data e.g. in a delay tolerant networking scenario providing peer to peer communication through the mobile hotspot access network e.g. between clients of a single Mobile AP between clients of respective different Mobile APs etc. etc. In another example scenario the eighth example mode may be utilized in a scenario in which vehicle to vehicle communications are prioritized above vehicle to infrastructure communications. In yet another example scenario the eighth example mode may be utilized in a scenario in which all infrastructure access is lost e.g. in tunnels parking garages etc. .

Note also that the eighth example mode may be utilized in a scenario in which the backbone provider network local infrastructure provider network and or fixed hotspot access network are normally available but are currently unavailable e.g. due to equipment failure due to communication link failure due to power outage due to a temporary denial of service etc. .

As shown and discussed herein it is beneficial to have a generic platform that allows multi mode communications of multiple users or machines within different environments using multiple devices with multiple technologies connected to multiple moving static things with multiple technologies forming wireless mesh hotspot networks over different environments connected to multiple wired wireless infrastructure network backbone providers ultimately connected to the Internet Cloud or private network infrastructure.

In accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure systems and methods are provided that manage a vehicle communication network for example in accordance with the location of nodes and end devices in a way that provides for stable TCP IP Internet access among other things. For example an end user may be provided with a clean and stable Wi Fi Internet connection that may appear to the end user to be the same as the Wi Fi Internet connection at the user s home at the user s workplace at a fixed public Wi Fi hotspot etc. For example for a user utilizing a communication network as described herein a TCP session may stay active downloads may process normally calls may proceed without interruption etc. As discussed herein a vehicle communication network in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure may be applied as a transport layer for regular Internet traffic for private network traffic e.g. extending the access of customer private LANs from the wired network to vehicles and users around them etc.

In accordance with an example network implementation although a user might be always connected to a single Wi Fi AP of a vehicle the vehicle or the access point thereof for example a Mobile AP or OBU is moving between multiple access points e.g. Fixed APs other Mobile APs cellular base stations fixed Wi Fi hotspots etc. For example mobility management implemented in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure supports the mobility of each vehicle and its users across different communication technologies e.g. 802.11p cellular Wi Fi etc. as the Mobile APs migrate among Fixed APs migrate among other Mobile APs and or as users migrate between Mobile APs.

In accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure a mobility controller MC which may also be referred to herein as a Network Controller NC may monitor the location of various nodes e.g. Mobile APs etc. and or the location of end users connected through them. The NC may for example provide seamless handovers e.g. maintaining communication session continuity between different APs and or different technologies with low link latency and low handover times.

The architecture provided herein is scalable for example taking advantage of redundant elements and or functionality to provide load balancing of control and or data communication functionality as well as to decrease failure probability. Various aspects of the present disclosure also provide for decreased control signaling e.g. in amount and or frequency which reduces the control overhead and reduces the size of control tables and tunneling for example in backend servers Fixed APs Mobile APs etc.

Additionally a communication network or components thereof in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure may comprise the ability to interact with mobile devices for example to control some or all of their connection choices and or to leverage their control functionality. For example in an example implementation a mobile application can run in the background managing the available networks and or nodes thereof and selecting the one that best fits and then triggering a handoff to the selected network or node thereof before breakdown of the current connection.

The communication network or components thereof is also configurable according to the infrastructure requirements and or mobility needs of each client. For example the communication network or components thereof comprises the capability to support different Layer 2 L2 or Layer 3 L3 implementations as well as IPv4 IPv6 traffic.

The discussion will now turn to the example communication network shown in which shows a block diagram of an example communication network in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure. The example network may for example share any or all characteristics with the other example networks and or network components and discussed herein.

The example network for example may comprise various entities e.g. devices logical nodes etc. that communicate with each other for example monitoring and or updating Mobile AP position. Such entities may for example comprise Cloud entities e.g. including one or more APIs servers databases etc. a Network Controller NC that may also be referred to herein as an LMA or Mobility Controller MC a Fixed AP FAP that may also be referred to herein as an RSU and a Mobile AP MAP that may also be referred to herein as an OBU.

A Cloud API may for example perform a context aware determination of the current best NC for a particular Mobile AP. The Cloud API may determine the best NC based on any of a variety of criteria. For example the Cloud API may determine the best NC from among the available NCs based at least in part on load balancing and or resource consumption for the active Mobile APs physical location of an NC and or Mobile AP relative health of an NC and or Mobile AP hardware and or software revision of an NC and or Mobile AP etc.

The NC may for example comprise the central entity that manages a group of MAPs that are assigned to it. Every time the NC receives a network location update from an MAP it may update the procedures utilized by mobility services such as updating routes and or tunnels to forward the MAP s or MAP s users traffic to the new network location.

The MAP or OBU may for example be installed in a vehicle or other moving object. The MAP may for example communicate with the backbone network or back end network through any one or more of a plurality of technologies. Whenever the MAP switches technology e.g. wireless interface technology or access point the MAP may inform its assigned NC about its new mobility context e.g. network location network identification interface technology etc. . Each MAP may for example comprise one or more local Wi Fi APs through which its users can connect and through which it can communicate with sensors and or other devices etc. For example the example network of shows MAP providing a MAP Wi Fi Network MAP providing a MAP Wi Fi Network MAP providing a Wi Fi Network and MAP M providing a MAP M Wi Fi Network. Note that although only a single Wi Fi Network is shown for each MAP a single MAP may provide one or more distinct Wi Fi Networks wireless LAN networks wireless PAN networks etc.

In an example implementation a MAP queries an API about which NC it can or must connect to. The API may then for example select the best suitable NC among the NCs available and inform the MAP of the selection. The API may for example select or identify the best NC based on any of a variety of factors e.g. load balancing considerations performance metrics geographical location hardware and or software revision general NC health etc. . Note however that the MAP may also determine the NC to which it will try to connect based on information available in the Cloud e.g. resources of NCs users assigned per NC fleets assigned to particular NCs etc. . In an example implementation the MAP may obtain such information utilizing an API database inquiry etc. Cloud APIs are shown in as part of the back end network but may reside at any one or more of a variety of nodes in the network. In an example implementation any of the example MAPs etc. may communicate with the Cloud APIs to determine which of the NCs etc. to connect to or associate with .

A MAP may search for the best available access point to connect to based on any of a variety of criteria e.g. signal strength vehicle location or position street vehicle velocity or speed hop count expected amount of time for which the MAP will be connected to the AP expected time at which contact with the AP will be made and or lost number of connections to the AP number of users the availability of public and or private hotspots load balancing factors etc. . Such a search may for example be performed by a connection manager e.g. a processor operating in accordance with a connection manager software module of the MAP. If the MAP selects a Fixed AP for connection the MAP may connect to the selected fixed AP and send a control message to the NC to which the MAP is assigned e.g. as indicated by an API as determined by the MAP etc. where the control message comprises mobility context information e.g. the identification of the MAP the identification of the AP or APs to which the MAP is now connected etc. . In an example implementation MAP M may identify FAP Y as the best FAP and connect to e.g. associate with FAP Y . Similarly MAP may identify FAP as the best FAP and connect to FAP .

If the MAP selects another Mobile AP for connection the MAP may connect to the selected Mobile AP and send a control message to the NC to which the MAP is assigned where the control message comprises mobility context information e.g. the identification of the MAP the selected Mobile AP the Fixed AP that is the root of the multi hop connection via the selected Mobile AP etc. . This message may for example be relayed through the multiple nodes that compose the multi hop chain until the message arrives at the appropriate Fixed AP which then forwards the message to the assigned NC. In an example implementation MAP may select MAP as the best AP and connect to or associate with MAP . MAP may then communicate the control message to the assigned NC via MAP and FAP .

If there is no available AP or no available AP that meets various requirements for example emergency communication requirements communication link reliability requirements signal strength requirements throughput requirements S N ratio requirements loading requirements error rate requirements geographical requirements etc. the MAP may connect through a cellular link and send a control message to the assigned NC where the message comprises mobility context information e.g. the identification of the MAP its cellular control IP its location etc. . In an example scenario MAP M may determine that none of the FAPs or MAPs of the network is available and or able to provide communication requirements. In such scenario MAP M may determine to connect to the Telco Network through a cellular base station. The MAP M may then connect to the Telco Network and communicate the control message to the assigned NC via the Telco Network . Note that in a dynamic network in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure a Mobile AP may change the AP to which it is connected often e.g. more than once per second more than once per ten seconds etc. . The communication path for control messages associated with mobility management is thus adaptively selected based at least in part on vehicle or Mobile AP context which may be continually changing.

The NC upon receiving and validating the control message may for example register the node e.g. the Mobile AP etc. in an internal database if not yet present and update the required routes and or tunnels and or addresses to the MAP in order to forward the MAP s and MAP s users traffic respectively to the updated network location. The assigned NC may then for example manage communication between the Mobile AP and any of a variety of networked nodes e.g. a node within a Private Network a node accessible via the Internet etc. . Note that in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure the control messages or at least payload portions thereof may be encrypted for example by exchanging key information between the NC and the Mobile AP.

Note that if a MAP does not receive a valid response within a particular time the MAP may retry the connecting e.g. retry connecting to a same or different entity .

The communication network in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure provides flexibility to extend backend private networks to the vehicle network for example allowing a users connected to the vehicle network to access an internal private network just as if the user was connected to the private network through an Ethernet connection or Wi Fi connection of the premises of the private network.

As an example shows a block diagram of an example communication network in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure. The example network may for example share any or all characteristics with the other example networks and or network components and discussed herein. The example communication network for example be capable of extending the private network.

In an example implementation a large company campus comprises a private network that can only be accessed through the wired network or through the Wi Fi access points installed in the buildings of the campus by utilizing a communication network in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the private internal network can be extended to vehicles around the campus where each vehicle may become a Wi Fi hotspot that enables users to access the private network as if the user was in an office of the campus with a direct connection e.g. an Ethernet connection a Wi Fi connection etc. .

In the example network of the MAPs and each provide a respective virtual LAN X e.g. SSID and connectivity . Such a virtual LAN may for example be in addition to a publicly accessible LAN other virtual LANs etc. The NCs and and FAPs and provide the connectivity between the MAPs and and VLAN X . Note that VLAN X may also include access to the Internet or Cloud APIs etc. In an example scenario MAP provides a VLAN X link to user devices associated therewith or connected thereto and communicates VLAN X traffic between the user devices and VLAN X via wireless link to the FAP Control VLAN link to NC and to VLAN X . In another scenario MAP M provides a VLAN X link to user devices associated therewith or connected thereto and communicates VLAN X traffic between the user devices and VLAN X via the Cellular Network Public Network and NC .

Such private network extension also applies for example to a plurality of private networks. For example the Mobile AP can broadcast respective SSIDs for W Fi networks that enable access to different respective private networks. An example implementation is illustrated at which shows a block diagram of an example communication network in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure. The example network may for example share any or all characteristics with the other example networks and or network components and discussed herein.

The example network comprises a plurality of VLANs e.g. VLAN with SSID VLAN with SSID VLAN X with SSID X etc. . The Network Controller NC routes traffic to and or from the plurality of VLANs. Note that only one NC and set of VLANs is shown for illustrative simplicity and not by way of limitation.

MAP broadcasts SSID for VLAN and provides a communication link to user or client devices that wish to participate in VLAN . MAP in turn communicates with VLAN via FAP and the NC . Similarly MAP broadcasts SSID for VLAN and provides a communication link to user or client devices that wish to participate in VLAN . MAP in turn communicates with VLAN via FAP and the NC . Similarly MAP Y broadcasts SSID X for VLAN X and provides a communication link to user or client devices that wish to participate in VLAN X. MAP Y in turn communicates with VLAN X via FAP Y and the NC .

As discussed herein a MAP may provide VLAN access for a plurality of VLANs. For example MAP broadcasts SSID for VLAN and SSID for VLAN and provides a communication link to user or client devices that wish to participate Such VLANs. MAP in turn communicates with VLAN and VLAN via FAP and the NC .

As discussed herein a MAP may communicate via other MAPs. For example as shown in the example network MAP broadcasts SSID for VLAN and provides a communication link to user or client devices that wish to participate in VLAN . MAP in turn communicates with VLAN via MAP FAP and the NC . Note that although MAP does not directly support a connection to VLAN to user or client devices connected directly to it MAP may still be utilized by MAP for routing VLAN traffic between MAP and VLAN .

A communication network in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure many examples of which are provided herein may be utilized to provide regular reliable and robust Internet access to users. For example a user may connect to the Mobile AP which will forward its traffic to the NC which will then perform the requests on behalf of the user. The reply is then forwarded from the NC to the same Mobile AP from which the request came to ultimately be delivered to the user.

In an example scenario in which the user changes the Mobile AP the new Mobile AP or Fixed AP may inform the NC so that the NC knows the new location of the user. The NC may for example after receiving this information from the Mobile AP or Fixed AP share it with the other available NCs so that the user location gets updated in all of them.

As discussed herein the Mobile APs may be connected to the back end network in a variety of manners. For example a Mobile AP may be connected to the back end network e.g. a VLAN control network etc. via a direct wireless link between the Mobile AP and a Fixed AP which enables the Mobile AP to communicate with the NC through the Fixed AP. Also for example a Mobile AP may be connected to the back end network via a public IP address. For example a Mobile AP or other node can connect to the NC over a cellular network using the public IP address assigned to its cellular interface. Additionally such connection can be established by direct routing through a VPN. For example a Mobile AP or other node that does not have or own a public IP address but wants to connect over cellular can establish a VPN connection and use it to connect to the NC. The VPN server may for example be one of the available NCs may be distributed between all NCs or may also be an external entity. The connection of the Mobile APs to the infrastructure can be adapted adjusted on demand based at least in part on vehicle context. For example the communication path selected to perform control communications e.g. concerning mobility management is adaptable.

A communication network in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure may comprise any of a variety of characteristics and provide any of a variety of advantages over traditional systems. For example control message traffic is reduced. For example in an example implementation the MAP need only send such a control message to the NC when the MAP changes its connection. An end user device may for example treat the connection to the Mobile AP like any other Wi Fi hotspot for example just connecting once and then keeping the same IP address e.g. even though the Mobile AP may be changing its connection and or even though the user may travel between Mobile APs .

Additionally in a communication network in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the number of routes and tunnels may also be kept low. For example each vehicle might have its own routes and tunnels but the user devices may be masked under such routes and tunnels for example eliminating the need for a route and or tunnel for each user device. Note that the tunnels discussed herein may comprise any of a variety of characteristics and or types e.g. IPv4 in IPv4 IPv4 in IPv6 IPv6 in IPv4 IPv6 in IPv6 ipsec etc. . The handover times may also be minimized the average handover time may for example be approximately the new connection link latency between the MAP and the NC.

The number of MAPs under each NC can be readily adapted through the Cloud API which results in relatively fast response times for example in case of an NC failure a sudden user load increase etc. Management of the NCs is also simplified. For example adding new NCs supporting multiple simultaneously active versions in the network and removing old NCs may all be performed without disrupting the rest of the network.

Note that although the NC is generally presented herein by example as an entity in the network backbone or back end the NC may be implemented in any of a variety of network locations or types of nodes . For example an NC may be implemented in a single AP e.g. in a Fixed AP etc. . Also for example NC functionality may be distributed among a plurality of APs e.g. in a plurality of Fixed APs etc. . In an AP based implementation the management of the Mobile AP s position in the network may be performed between the Fixed APs which share the information between them by specific control messages that identify the Mobile AP or the Mobile AP assigned to each user its point of connection its current serving NC and the registration timeout etc. . One or several of the Fixed APs may also for example work as proxies to allow the Mobile APs to connect through external networks e.g. cellular etc. . In an example implementation in which the NC or a portion thereof is implemented in a Fixed AP scalability and redundancy may be enhanced latency may be reduced etc.

In accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure a node e.g. a Mobile AP etc. may send and receive data through multiple available different nodes and or multiple different technologies e.g. wireless communication technologies etc. simultaneously which may be referred to herein as multi homing. For example in one example implementation a node registration process may provide for multiple registrations for the same node e.g. for the same Mobile AP etc. . For example a unique device identification may be associated with multiple IP addresses that may for example be selectively utilized based the context.

An example of a communication network incorporating multi homing functionality is provided in which shows a block diagram of an example communication network in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure. The example network may for example share any or all characteristics with the other example networks and or network components and discussed herein.

In a multi homing configuration the multiple communication pathways may be utilized for multiple independent respective communication streams e.g. based on communication priority for example QoS requirements etc. . Also for example a single communication stream may be divided into separate portions each of which assigned to a respective communication path e.g. voice of a relatively reliable path and video over a cheaper path etc. . Additionally for example a same communication e.g. control message communication critical data communication etc. may be communicated through multiple pathways to help ensure delivery. Such communication in any or all of such scenarios may be performed concurrently e.g. during a same general time window for example in a time multiplexed manner etc. or simultaneously e.g. at the same time .

In the example system MAP is directly connected to FAP and FAP at the same time. Thus the NC e.g. NC assigned to MAP may direct communications to MAP via FAP and or FAP . Also in the example system MAP is directly connected to FAP Y . Thus the NC assigned to MAP may direct communications to MAP via FAP Y .

In the example system MAP is directly connected to MAP and MAP . Thus the NC assigned to MAP may direct communications to MAP via FAP and or FAP and via MAP and or may direct communications to MAP via FAP Y and MAP .

Additionally in the example system MAP M is directly connected to FAP Y and the Telco Network e.g. a base station thereof at the same time. Thus the NC e.g. NC N assigned to MAP M may direct communications to MAP M via FAP Y and or the Telco Network .

In each of the aforementioned scenarios the MAP e.g. upon establishing a connection with one or more access points or base stations may communicate a control message to the NC assigned to the MAP to notify the NC of the MAP s present connectivity status e.g. to which access points and or base stations the MAP is connected . Note that although the example network only shows a vehicle communication network and a Telco Network the scope of this disclosure is not limited thereto. The same principals readily apply to other types of networks. For example a MAP may have present network connectivity through a Wi Fi hotspot satellite communication link user or client device data plan etc.

As discussed herein the NC may keep track of the Mobile AP s mobility context e.g. network locations IP addresses routes tunnels etc. . This knowledge facilitates the forwarding of information to the Mobile AP along the correct network pathway. The various nodes of the network may share context information. For example as discussed herein the Mobile APs may communicate control messages with the NC. An example communication network is shown in which shows a block diagram of an example communication network in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure. The example network may for example share any or all characteristics with the other example networks and or network components and discussed herein.

As shown in a first example Mobile AP e.g. MAP may send control messages to an example NC e.g. NC via another Mobile AP e.g. MAP and a Fixed AP e.g. FAP . The return control messages from the NC may for example follow the reverse path. Also a second example Mobile AP e.g. MAP may send control messages to an example NC e.g. NC N via a Fixed AP e.g. FAP Y . The return control messages may for example follow the reverse path. Additionally a third example Mobile AP e.g. MAP M may send control messages to an example NC e.g. NC N via a cellular telecommunication link e.g. through the Telco Network . The return control messages may for example follow the reverse path.

The control messages from the Mobile AP to the NC may comprise any of a variety of different types of mobility context information non limiting examples of which are provided herein. For example such control messages may comprise the Mobile AP identification the identification of the Mobile AP s point of attachment to the network a message sequence number and identification information about the Mobile AP s user s etc. Also for example the control messages from the NC to the Mobile AP may comprise any of a variety of different types of control information non limiting examples of which are provided herein. For example such control messages may comprise message sequence number and identification information an error code in case of a failure a registration granted and or failed indication etc.

The example Mobile AP may for example comprise a Communication Interface Module that operates to perform any or all of the wireless and or wired communication functionality for the Mobile AP many examples of which are provided herein e.g. communication with NCs communication with Fixed AP nodes communication with Mobile AP nodes communication directly with client devices backhaul or cellular communication etc. . The Communication I F module may for example operate in accordance with any of a variety of cellular communication protocols e.g. 3G 4G LTE etc. wireless LAN communication protocols e.g. Wi Fi etc. wireless PAN communication protocols e.g. Bluetooth etc. 802.11p or DSRC satellite communication protocols fiber or cable communication protocols LAN protocols e.g. Ethernet etc. etc. For example any of the example communication discussed herein between a Mobile AP and an NC between a Mobile AP and a Fixed or Mobile AP etc. may be performed utilizing the Communication Interface Module .

The example Mobile AP also comprises a Connection Manager Module that for example manages connections between the Mobile AP and one or more APs e.g. Mobile APs Fixed APs etc. Base Stations e.g. cellular base stations satellites etc. user or client devices Network Controllers etc. The Connection Manager Module may for example utilize communication services provided by the Communication Interface Module to perform various aspects of such communication. The Connection Manager Module may for example operate to perform any or all of the mobility management functionality discussed herein e.g. with regard to Mobile APs Fixed APs etc. .

The example Mobile AP may for example comprise a Master Control Module that generally manages operation of the Mobile AP at a high level. Such Master Control Module may for example comprise various aspects of an operating system for the Mobile AP .

The example Mobile AP may further for example comprise one or more Applications executing on the Mobile AP e.g. client management applications security applications power management applications vehicle monitoring applications location services applications user interface applications etc. .

The example Mobile AP may also comprise one or more Processors and Memory Devices . The Processor s may for example comprise any of a variety of processor characteristics. For example the Processor s may comprise one or more of a general purpose processor RIS processor microcontroller ASIC DSP video processor co processor etc. . The Memory Device s may for example comprise any of a variety of memory characteristics. For example the Memory Device s may comprise a volatile memory non volatile memory etc. The Memory Device s may for example comprise a non transitory computer readable medium that comprises software instructions that when executed by the Processor s cause the Mobile AP to perform any or all of the functionality discussed herein e.g. mobility management functionality communication functionality etc. .

Note that the example Mobile AP may also be a Fixed AP or base station in which case the modules operate to perform any or all of the functionality discussed herein with regard to fixed access points and or base stations.

The example NC may for example comprise a Communication Interface Module that operates to perform any or all of the wireless and or wired communication functionality for the NC many examples of which are provided herein e.g. communication with entities upstream from the NC communication with Fixed AP nodes communication with Mobile AP nodes communication with cellular or other base stations communication with the Cloud APIs or other entities backhaul communication etc. . The Communication I F Module may for example operate in accordance with any of a variety of cellular communication protocols e.g. 3G 4G LTE etc. wireless LAN communication protocols e.g. Wi Fi etc. wireless PAN communication protocols e.g. Bluetooth etc. 802.11p or DSRC satellite communication protocols fiber or cable communication protocols LAN protocols e.g. Ethernet etc. etc. For example any of the example communication discussed herein between an NC and a Mobile AP between an NC and a Fixed or Mobile AP between an NC and a backhaul network between an NC and a VLAN etc. may be performed utilizing the Communication OF Module .

The example NC also comprises a Mobility Control Module that for example manages the mobility of the Mobile APs for which the NC is responsible for example including communications between the NC and one or more APs e.g. Mobile APs Fixed APs etc. Base Stations e.g. cellular base stations satellites etc. user or client devices central controllers etc. The Mobility Control Module may for example utilize communication services provided by the Communication Interface Module to perform various aspects of such communication. The Mobility Control Module may for example operate to perform any or all of the mobility management functionality discussed herein e.g. with regard to NCs etc. .

The example NC may for example comprise a Master Control Module that generally manages operation of the NC at a high level. Such Master Control Module may for example comprise various aspects of an operating system for the NC .

The example NC may further for example comprise one or more Applications executing on the NC e.g. client management applications security applications power management applications vehicle monitoring applications location services applications user interface applications etc. .

The example NC may also comprise one or more Processors and Memory Devices . The Processor s may for example comprise any of a variety of processor characteristics. For example the processor s may comprise one or more of a general purposes processor RIS processor microcontroller ASIC DSP video processor co processor etc. . The Memory Device s may for example comprise any of a variety of memory characteristics. For example the Memory Device s may comprise a volatile memory non volatile memory etc. The Memory Device s may for example comprise a non transitory computer readable medium that comprises software instructions that when executed by the Processor s cause the NC to perform any or all of the functionality discussed herein e.g. mobility management functionality communication functionality etc. .

In accordance with various aspects of this disclosure examples of the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 192 titled Communication Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015.

In accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for integrating such networks and or components with other networks and systems non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 221 997 titled Integrated Communication Network for A Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Also in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for synchronizing such networks and or components non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 016 titled Systems and Methods for Synchronizing a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Additionally in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for managing such networks and or components non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 042 titled Systems and Methods for Managing a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for monitoring such networks and or components non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 066 titled Systems and Methods for Monitoring a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Still further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for detecting and or classifying anomalies in such networks and or components non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 077 titled Systems and Methods for Detecting and Classifying Anomalies in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Yet further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for managing mobility in such networks and or components non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 098 titled Systems and Methods for Managing Mobility in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Also in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for managing connectivity in such networks and or components non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 121 titled Systems and Methods for Managing Connectivity a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Additionally in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for collecting sensor data in such networks and or components non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 135 titled Systems and Methods for Collecting Sensor Data in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for interfacing with such networks and or components non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 145 titled Systems and Methods for Interfacing with a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Still further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for interfacing with a user of such networks and or components non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 150 titled Systems and Methods for Interfacing with a User of a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Yet further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for data storage and processing in such networks and or components non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 168 titled Systems and Methods for Data Storage and Processing for a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Also in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for vehicle traffic management in such networks and or components non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 183 titled Systems and Methods for Vehicle Traffic Management in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Additionally in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for environmental management in such networks and or components non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 186 titled Systems and Methods for Environmental Management in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for managing port or shipping operation in such networks and or components non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 190 titled Systems and Methods for Port Management in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Also in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for enhancing the accuracy of positioning or location information based at least in part on historical data non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 244 828 titled Utilizing Historical Data to Correct GPS Data in a Network of Moving Things filed on Oct. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Additionally in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for enhancing the accuracy of position or location of positioning or location information based at least in part on the utilization of anchors non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 244 930 titled Using Anchors to Correct GPS Data in a Network of Moving Things filed on Oct. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for providing communication between applications non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 246 368 titled Systems and Methods for Inter Application Communication in a Network of Moving Things filed on Oct. 26 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Still further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for probing analyzing and or validating communication non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 246 372 titled Systems and Methods for Probing and Validating Communication in a Network of Moving Things filed on Oct. 26 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Yet further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for adapting communication rate non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 250 544 titled Adaptive Rate Control for Vehicular Networks filed on Nov. 4 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Also in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for reconfiguring and adapting hardware non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 273 878 titled Systems and Methods for Reconfiguring and Adapting Hardware in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 31 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Additionally in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for optimizing the gathering of data non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 253 249 titled Systems and Methods for Optimizing Data Gathering in a Network of Moving Things filed on Nov. 10 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for performing delay tolerant networking non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 257 421 titled Systems and Methods for Delay Tolerant Networking in a Network of Moving Things filed on Nov. 19 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Still further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for improving the coverage and throughput of mobile access points non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 265 267 titled Systems and Methods for Improving Coverage and Throughput of Mobile Access Points in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 9 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Yet further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for coordinating channel utilization non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 270 858 titled Channel Coordination in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Also in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for implementing a network coded mesh network in the network of moving things non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 257 854 titled Systems and Methods for Network Coded Mesh Networking in a Network of Moving Things filed on Nov. 20 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Additionally in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for improving the coverage of fixed access points non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 260 749 titled Systems and Methods for Improving Fixed Access Point Coverage in a Network of Moving Things filed on Nov. 30 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for managing network or mobility controllers and their network interactions non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 273 715 titled Systems and Methods for Managing Mobility Controllers and Their Network Interactions in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 31 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Still further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for managing and or triggering handovers of mobile access points non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 281 432 titled Systems and Methods for Managing and Triggering Handovers of Mobile Access Points in a Network of Moving Things filed on Jan. 21 2016 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Yet further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for performing captive portal related control and management non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 268 188 titled Captive Portal related Control and Management in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 16 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Also in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for extrapolating high value data non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 270 678 titled Systems and Methods to Extrapolate High Value Data from a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Additionally in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for providing remote software updating and distribution non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 272 750 titled Systems and Methods for Remote Software Update and Distribution in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 30 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for providing remote configuration updating and distribution non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 278 662 titled Systems and Methods for Remote Configuration Update and Distribution in a Network of Moving Things filed on Jan. 14 2016 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Still further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for adapting the network for example automatically based on user feedback non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 286 243 titled Systems and Methods for Adapting a Network of Moving Things Based on User Feedback filed on Jan. 22 2016 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Yet further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for enhancing and or guaranteeing data integrity when building or performing data analytics non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 278 764 titled Systems and Methods to Guarantee Data Integrity When Building Data Analytics in a Network of Moving Things Jan. 14 2016 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Also in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for performing self initialization and or automated bootstrapping of mobile access points non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 286 515 titled Systems and Methods for Self Initialization and Automated Bootstrapping of Mobile Access Points in a Network of Moving Things filed on Jan. 25 2016 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Additionally in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for managing power supply and or utilization non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 295 602 titled Systems and Methods for Power Management in a Network of Moving Things filed on Feb. 16 2016 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for automating and easing the installation and setup of the infrastructure non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 299 269 titled Systems and Methods for Automating and Easing the Installation and Setup of the Infrastructure Supporting a Network of Moving Things filed on Feb. 24 2016 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In summary various aspects of this disclosure provide systems and methods for managing mobility in a network of moving things. As non limiting examples various aspects of this disclosure provide systems and methods for managing mobility in a network in which at least a portion of the network access points are moving. While the foregoing has been described with reference to certain aspects and examples it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the disclosure. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the disclosure without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the disclosure not be limited to the particular example s disclosed but that the disclosure will include all examples falling within the scope of the appended claims.

