---

title: Intelligent policy and charging rule function (PCRF) restoration
abstract: A first device associated with an evolved packet core network receives a first update request from a second device associated with the evolved packet core network. The first update request is associated with a communication session previously provided between the first device and the second device, and the first update request is generated based on a voice/video request. The first device generates an update answer in response to the first update request, where the update answer includes a code requesting that the communication session be restored between the first device and the second device. The first device receives, based on the code, a second update request from the second device, where the second update request includes session information associated with the communication session. The first device restores, based on the session information, the communication session between the first device and the second device to create a restored communication session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09544939&OS=09544939&RS=09544939
owner: Cellco Partnership
number: 09544939
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160610
---
The present application is a continuation of prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 974 499 filed Aug. 23 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 370 037 titled INTELLIGENT POLICY AND CHARGING RULE FUNCTION PCRF RESTORATION the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

In the Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP the fourth generation 4G cellular network includes a radio access network e.g. referred to as a long term evolution LTE network and a wireless core network e.g. referred to as evolved packet core EPC network . The LTE network is often called an evolved universal terrestrial radio access network E UTRAN . The EPC network is an Internet protocol IP packet switched core network that supports high speed wireless and wireline broadband access technologies. The EPC network allows user equipment UEs to access various services by connecting to the LTE network an evolved high rate packet data eHRPD radio access network RAN and or a wireless local area network WLAN RAN. The EPC network is a complex system that includes a number of network nodes that communicate with each other when UEs are accessing the EPC network. An evolved packet system EPS is defined to include both the LTE and EPC networks. EPS seeks to improve mobile technology through higher bandwidth better spectrum efficiency wider coverage enhanced security and full interworking with other access networks.

In the EPC a policy and charging rule function PCRF manages Gx sessions between a packet data network PDN gateway PGW and the PCRF and manages Rx sessions between a proxy call session control function P CSCF e.g. of an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS network and the PCRF. Gx sessions typically tend to be long lived sessions. However the PCRF may experience a Gx session loss due to for example software failure geo redundancy recovery etc. associated with the PCRF. The PCRF may also experience a message loss such as for example a reauthorization request being dropped due to overload control message buffer overflow etc. During the session loss and or the message loss the PCRF and the PGW are unable to synchronize session state e.g. policy control and charging rules status quality of service QoS event triggers access point name APN aggregate maximum bit rate AMBR etc. . This in turn results in a poor user experience when a user is attempting to establish voice and or video calls. For example the PCRF cannot process an Rx request for a voice video call when the PCRF has lost state for a corresponding Gx session. This may require the user to power cycle the UE or to drop and recreate a PDN connection and a Gx connection to establish the voice video call.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

The PCRF may provide policy control decision and flow based charging control functionalities. The PGW may provide connectivity of the UE to external packet data networks by being a traffic exit entry point for the UE. The PCRF may connect to a P CSCF e.g. of an IMS network not shown in . The P CSCF may protect the EPC network and the IMS network and may function as a proxy server for the UE . The IMS network may include an architectural framework or network for delivering IP multimedia services.

The UE may attempt to establish a voice or video voice video call with one or more other UEs via the EPC network. When establishing the voice video call the UE may generate a request for the voice video call as further shown in . The request for the voice video call may eventually be received by the P CSCF and provided to the PCRF. Assume that the PCRF initially successfully establishes a communication session e.g. a Gx session with the PGW. However further assume that the PCRF loses the communication session with the PGW due to an error condition or other problem associated with the Gx session as shown in .

An event trigger for the communication session may be generated e.g. based on a radio access network change out of credit condition etc. and may be provided to the PGW. The PGW may provide a communication session update request e.g. for the communication session to the PCRF in response to the event trigger as shown in . In typical arrangements the PCRF may respond to the update request with an error message e.g. a Diameter error unknown session ID message which may provide the undesirable results of dropping the communication session or applying local policy rules. In some implementations when the PCRF receives the update request from the PGW the PCRF may generate a communication session update answer that includes a code e.g. a Diameter session recovery request . The PCRF may provide the update answer e.g. with the code to the PGW as further shown in .

The PGW may receive the update answer and the code and may generate a new communication update request based on the code. The new update request may include communication session information e.g. policy control and charging rules rule status APN AMBR QoS event triggers binding information etc. . The PGW may provide the new update request to the PCRF as shown in . The PCRF may utilize the session information to restore the communication session provided between the PCRF and the PGW as further shown in . Once the communication session is restored the PCRF may provide the request for the voice video call to the PGW.

With reference to the UE may attempt to establish a voice video call with one or more other UEs via the EPC network. When establishing the voice video call the UE may generate a request for the voice video call as further shown in . The request for the voice video call may eventually be received by the P CSCF and provided to the PCRF. The P CSCF may generate an authentication authorization AA request based on the voice video call and may provide an address of the PGW in the AA request. The P CSCF may provide the AA request e.g. with the PGW address to the PCRF as shown in .

The PCRF may receive the AA request and may attempt to identify a communication session e.g. a Gx session with the PGW based on the AA request and the UE s IP address included in the AA request. In typical arrangements if the PCRF fails to identify the communication session with the PGW the PCRF may return an error message e.g. a Diameter error session not found message which may provide the undesirable results of dropping the communication session.

In some implementations if the PCRF fails to identify the communication session with the PGW the PCRF may respond to the P CSCF with an AA answer and may attempt to restore the communication session with the PGW. The PCRF may establish a restoration communication session with the PGW e.g. based on the PGW address and may provide a reauthorization request to the PGW as further shown in . The reauthorization request may include information e.g. an IP address of the UE a mobile subscriber integrated services digital network MSISDN of the UE etc. provided in the AA request.

The PGW may receive the reauthorization request and may generate a communication update request based on the reauthorization request. The update request may include communication session information e.g. charging rules rule status APN AMBR QoS event triggers binding information etc. . The PGW may provide the update request to the PCRF as shown in . The PCRF may utilize the session information to restore the communication session provided between the PCRF and the PGW as further shown in . Once the communication session is restored the PCRF may provide the request for the voice video call to the PGW. To facilitate the reauthorization request in restoring Gx communication session information a Gx session may be established with the PCRF solely for the purpose of session restoration at a prior time e.g. at startup of the PGW .

Such an arrangement may enable a PCRF to intelligently restore a lost communication session with a PGW. For example the PCRF may restore the lost communication session based on interactions with the PGW and or based on interactions with a P CSCF and the PGW. This may prevent the PCRF and the PGW from dropping the communication session which may prevent a video or voice call from being dropped.

As further shown in eNB may interface with MME over a S1 MME interface and may interface with SGW over a S1 U interface. MME may interface with SGW over a S11 interface. SGW may interface with PGW over a S5 interface. PCRF may interface with PGW over a Gx interface. PCRF may interface with P CSCF over an Rx interface. PGW may interface with AAA server over a S6b interface. Other interfaces not shown in may also be utilized by devices of LTE network EPC network and or IMS network . For example multiple MMEs may interface with one another over S10 interfaces.

UE may include a radiotelephone a PCS terminal that may combine for example a cellular radiotelephone with data processing and data communications capabilities a smart phone a PDA that can include a radiotelephone a pager Internet intranet access etc. a laptop computer a tablet computer a desktop computer a workstation computer a personal computer a landline telephone or other types of computation and communication devices. In an example implementation UE may include a device that is capable of communicating over LTE network EPC network and or IMS network .

LTE network may include a communications network that connects subscribers e.g. UE to a service provider. In one example LTE network may include a wireless local area network WLAN or other access networks e.g. an E UTRAN or an enhanced high rate packet data eHRPD network . Alternatively or additionally LTE network may include a radio access network capable of supporting high data rate low latency packet optimization large capacity and coverage etc.

eNB may include one or more computation and communication devices such as a base station that receive traffic from MME and or SGW and transmit that traffic to UE . eNB may also include one or more devices that receive traffic from UE and transmit that traffic to MME and or SGW or to other UEs . eNB may combine the functionalities of a base station and a radio network controller RNC in 2G or 3G radio access networks.

EPC network may include a core network architecture of the 3GPP LTE wireless communication standard. In one example EPC network may include an IP packet switched core network that supports high speed wireless and wireline broadband access technologies. In another example EPC network may provide packet switched voice services e.g. which are traditionally circuit switched using IMS network .

MME may include one or more computation and communication devices that may be responsible for idle mode tracking and paging procedures e.g. including retransmissions for UE . MME may be involved in a bearer activation deactivation process e.g. for UE and may choose a SGW for UE at an initial attach and at a time of intra LTE handover. MME may authenticate UE . Non access stratum NAS signaling may terminate at MME and MME may generate and allocate temporary identities to UEs e.g. UE . MME may check authorization of UE to utilize a service provider s Public Land Mobile Network PLMN and may enforce roaming restrictions for UE . MME may be a termination point in EPC network for ciphering integrity protection for NAS signaling and may handle security key management. MME may provide a control plane function for mobility between LTE and access networks with a S3 interface terminating at MME .

SGW may include one or more traffic transfer devices or network devices such as a gateway a router a switch a firewall a network interface card NIC a hub a bridge a proxy server an optical add drop multiplexer OADM or some other type of device that processes and or transfers traffic. In one example implementation SGW may route and forward user data packets may act as a mobility anchor for a user plane during inter eNB handovers and may act as an anchor for mobility between LTE and other 3GPP technologies. For idle state UEs SGW may terminate a downlink data path and may trigger paging when downlink data arrives for UE . SGW may manage and store contexts associated with UE e.g. parameters of an IP bearer service network internal routing information etc. .

PCRF may include one or more computation and communication devices that may provide policy control decision and flow based charging control functionalities. PCRF may provide network control regarding service data flow detection gating quality of service QoS and flow based charging etc. PCRF may determine how a certain service data flow shall be treated and may ensure that user plane traffic mapping and treatment is in accordance with a user s subscription profile.

PGW may include one or more traffic transfer devices or network devices such as a gateway a router a switch a firewall a NIC a hub a bridge a proxy server an OADM or some other type of device that processes and or transfers traffic. In one example implementation PGW may provide connectivity of UE to external packet data networks by being a traffic exit entry point for UE . UE may simultaneously connect to more than one PGW for accessing multiple PDNs. PGW may perform policy enforcement packet filtering for each user charging support lawful intercept and packet screening. PGW may also act as an anchor for mobility between 3GPP and non 3GPP technologies.

IMS network may include an architectural framework or network e.g. a telecommunications network for delivering IP multimedia services.

P CSCF may include one or more computation and communication devices that protect EPC network and IMS network . In some implementations P CSCF may function as a proxy server for UE where session initiation protocol SIP signaling traffic to and from UE may go through P CSCF . P CSCF may validate and then forward requests from UE and may process and forward responses to UE .

AAA server may include one or more computation and communication devices that provide authentication authorization and accounting services for UE . With regard to authentication AAA server may verify an identifier e.g. a mobile directory number MDN a mobile identification number MIN a mobile equipment identity MEID an IMEI etc. and credentials e.g. passwords tokens digital certificates etc. associated with UE . With regard to authorization AAA server may grant or refuse privileges to UE for accessing specific services. With regard to accounting AAA server may track consumption of network resources by UE .

The number of devices and or networks shown in is provided as an example. In practice there may be additional devices and or networks fewer devices and or networks different devices and or networks or differently arranged devices and or networks than those shown in . Furthermore two or more devices shown in may be implemented within a single device or a single device shown in may be implemented as multiple distributed devices. Additionally one or more of the devices of environment may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another one or more devices of environment .

Bus may include a path that permits communication among the components of device . Processor may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit a graphics processing unit an accelerated processing unit etc. a microprocessor and or any processing component e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC etc. that interprets and or executes instructions and or that is designed to implement a particular function. In some implementations processor may include multiple processor cores for parallel computing. Memory may include a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM and or another type of dynamic or static storage component e.g. a flash magnetic or optical memory that stores information and or instructions for use by processor .

Input component may include a component that permits a user to input information to device e.g. a touch screen display a keyboard a keypad a mouse a button a switch etc. . Output component may include a component that outputs information from device e.g. a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc. .

Communication interface may include a transceiver like component such as a transceiver and or a separate receiver and transmitter which enables device to communicate with other devices such as via a wired connection a wireless connection or a combination of wired and wireless connections. For example communication interface may include an Ethernet interface an optical interface a coaxial interface an infrared interface a radio frequency RF interface a universal serial bus USB interface a high definition multimedia interface HDMI or the like.

Device may perform various operations described herein. Device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions included in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may include memory space within a single physical storage device or memory space spread across multiple physical storage devices.

Software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device via communication interface . When executed software instructions stored in memory may cause processor to perform one or more processes described herein. Additionally or alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to perform one or more processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The number of components shown in is provided as an example. In practice device may include additional components fewer components different components or differently arranged components than those shown in . Additionally or alternatively one or more components of device may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another one or more components of device .

As shown in process may include receiving an event trigger block . For example UE may attempt to establish a voice or video voice video call with one or more other UEs via EPC network . When establishing the voice video call UE may generate a request for the voice video call and may provide the request for the voice video call to P CSCF . P CSCF may provide the request for the voice video call to PCRF . In some implementations a communication session e.g. a Gx session may be established between PCRF and PGW prior to receipt of an event trigger for the communication session. In some implementations the event trigger may be generated e.g. based on a radio access network change out of credit condition etc. and may be received by PGW . The event trigger may include for example an application start trigger a QoS requirements trigger a user location trigger etc.

As further shown in process may include generating a first update request based on the event trigger block . For example PGW may generate a communication session update request when the event trigger is received by PGW . In some implementations the update request may include a current control request update CCR U message that requests a status of the communication session provided between PCRF and PGW . In some implementations PGW may provide the update request to PCRF .

As further shown in process may include receiving the first update request block . For example PCRF may receive the communication session update request from PGW . In some implementations PCRF may attempt to identify the communication session provided between PCRF and PGW based on the update request. For example PCRF may maintain or have access to a data structure e.g. a table that includes PGW addresses and identifiers for communication sessions associated with corresponding PGW addresses. PCRF may compare the address of PGW to the PGW addresses and the session identifiers contained in the data structure in order to identify a communication session associated with PGW . In some implementations if the address of PGW matches one of the PGW addresses and the communication session identifier matches a stored session identifier PCRF may identify the communication session associated with PGW . In some implementations if the address of PGW does not match one of the PGW addresses or if the session identifiers do not match PCRF may fail to identify the communication session associated with PGW . In some implementations PCRF may be unable to identify the communication session with PGW due to an error condition or other problem e.g. a software failure geo redundancy recovery etc. associated with PCRF .

As further shown in process may include generating an update answer with a code value based on the first update request block . For example if PCRF is unable to identify the communication session with PGW PCRF may generate a communication session update answer in response to the communication session update request. In some implementations the update answer may include a current control answer update CCA U message that provides a status of the communication session provided between PCRF and PGW . In some implementations PCRF may provide in the update answer a code value indicating that PCRF wishes to recover the communication session. For example the code value may include a code e.g. a Diameter session recover request code that requests recovery of the communication session. In some implementations PCRF may provide the update answer with the code value to PGW . In some implementations PCRF and PGW may exchange the update request and the update answer utilizing protocol messages such as a Supported Features attribute value pair AVP . The Supported Features AVP may enable an origin host to inform a destination host about features supported by the origin host.

As further shown in process may include receiving the update answer with the code value block . For example PGW may receive the communication session update answer with the code value from PCRF . In some implementations PGW may determine that PCRF wishes to restore the communication session based on the code value. Based on this determination PGW may identify available session information associated with the communication session provided between PCRF and PGW . In some implementations the session information may include an entire charging rule a rule status an APN AMBR a QoS event triggers binding information e.g. a table of IP addresses etc. associated with the communication session.

As further shown in process may include generating a second update request with session information based on the code value block . For example PGW may generate a new communication session update request when the code value is received by PGW . In some implementations PGW may provide the identified available session information e.g. the entire policy control and charging rule the rule status the APN AMBR the QoS the event triggers binding information etc. in the new update request. In some implementations PGW may provide the new update request with the session information to PCRF .

As further shown in process may include receiving the second update request with the session information block . For example PCRF may receive the new communication session update request with the session information from PGW . In some implementations PCRF may store the session information in a memory component associated with PCRF .

As further shown in process may include restoring a Gx communication session based on the second update request and the session information block . For example PCRF may restore the communication session e.g. the Gx session between PCRF and PGW based on the new communication update request and the session information. In some implementations PCRF may restore the communication session by utilizing the binding information to locate the communication session and to reestablish the communication with PGW . In some implementations PCRF may maintain a timer for the communication session restoration. In such implementations if the communication session is not restored before the timer expires PCRF may generate an error message e.g. a resource allocation failure message which may result in a failure of the voice video call. However even if the voice video call fails due to the timer expiration a subsequent voice video call may be successful since the communication session restoration may continue and may be successful prior to the subsequent voice video call.

As further shown in process may include providing the voice video request to the PGW via the restored Gx communication session block . For example if PCRF successfully restores the communication session with PGW e.g. prior to the timer expiration PCRF may provide the request for the voice video call to PGW via the restored communication session. In some implementations PGW may receive the request for the voice video call and may process the voice video call per typical call flow procedures.

Although shows example blocks of process in some implementations process may include additional blocks fewer blocks different blocks or differently arranged blocks than those depicted in . Additionally or alternatively two or more of the blocks of process may be performed in parallel.

Voice call request may be routed through the network and may eventually be received by P CSCF and provided to PCRF as shown in . In example assume that a communication session e.g. a Gx session is established between PCRF and PGW prior to generation of voice call request . Further assume that when voice call request is generated an event trigger for the Gx session is received by PGW . PGW may generate a session update request when the event trigger is received by PGW . Session update request may request a status of the Gx session provided between PCRF and PGW . As shown in PGW may provide session update request to PCRF and PCRF may receive session update request . PCRF may attempt to identify the Gx session provided between PCRF and PGW based on session update request . In example assume that PCRF is unable to identify the Gx session with PGW due to an error condition as indicated by reference number in .

Since PCRF is unable to identify the Gx session with PGW PCRF may generate an update answer in response to session update request as shown in . Update answer may provide a status of the Gx session provided between PCRF and PGW and may include a code value indicating that PCRF wishes to recover the Gx session. As shown in PCRF may provide update answer with the code value to PGW . PGW may receive update answer and the code value of update answer may cause PGW to identify available session information associated with the Gx session previously provided between PCRF and PGW . The code value may also cause PGW to generate a new update request and to provide the identified session information in new update request . As shown in PGW may provide new update request with the session information to PCRF and PCRF may receive new update request .

PCRF may restore the Gx session between PCRF and PGW based on new update request and the session information as indicated by reference number in . After successfully restoring the Gx session with PGW PCRF may provide voice call request to PGW via the restored Gx session. PGW may receive voice call request and may process voice call request so that the voice call may be established between the first user and the second user.

As indicated above are provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to .

As shown in process may include generating an authentication and authorization AA request with a PGW address based on a voice video request block . For example UE may attempt to establish a voice or video voice video call with one or more other UEs via EPC network . When establishing the voice video call UE may generate a request for the voice video call. In some implementations a communication session e.g. a Gx session may be established between PCRF and PGW prior to generation of the request for the voice video call. In some implementations P CSCF may receive the request for the voice video call and may generate an authentication and authorization AA request based on the request for the voice video call. The AA request may include a media component description an application identifier bandwidth information proxy information an IP address of UE a MSISDN of UE etc.

In some implementations P CSCF may provide an address of PGW in the AA request. The address may include a PGW fully qualified domain name FQDN associated with PGW . P CSCF may receive the PGW FQDN from a serving CSCF S CSCF associated with EPC network and the S CSCF may receive the PGW FQDN from a home subscriber server HSS during IMS network registration. The HSS may receive the PGW FQDN from MME during IMS PDN session establishment. In some implementations P CSCF may provide the AA request with the address of PGW to PCRF .

As further shown in process may include receiving the AA request block . For example PCRF may receive the AA request with the address of PGW from P CSCF . In some implementations PCRF may attempt to identify a communication session e.g. a Gx session associated with PGW based on the AA request and the address of PGW . For example PCRF may maintain or have access to a data structure e.g. a table that includes PGW addresses and identifiers for communication sessions associated with corresponding PGW addresses. PCRF may compare the address of PGW to the PGW addresses and the session identifiers contained in the data structure in order to identify a communication session associated with PGW . In some implementations if the address of PGW matches one of the PGW addresses and the communication session identifier matches a stored session identifier PCRF may identify the communication session associated with PGW .

As further shown in process may include failing to identify a Gx session with the PGW based on the AA request block . For example if the address of PGW does not match one of the PGW addresses or if the session identifiers do not match PCRF may fail to identify the communication session associated with PGW . In some implementations PCRF may be unable to identify the communication session with PGW due to an error condition or other problem e.g. a software failure geo redundancy recovery etc. associated with PCRF .

As further shown in process may include generating an AA answer based on the failure to identify the Gx session block . For example if PCRF is fails to identify the communication session with PGW PCRF may generate an AA answer in response to the AA request. In some implementations the AA answer may include a status e.g. lost state of the communication session provided between PCRF and PGW . In some implementations PCRF may provide the AA answer to P CSCF .

As further shown in process may include receiving the AA answer block . For example P CSCF may receive the AA answer from PCRF . In some implementations PCRF may attempt to restore the lost communication session with PGW before providing another AA request to PCRF . In some implementations P CSCF may provide another AA request for another UE with the address of PGW to PCRF while PCRF is restoring the lost communication session with PGW for UE .

As further shown in process may include providing a reauthorization request to the PGW at the PGW address block . For example if PCRF is fails to identify the communication session with PGW PCRF may attempt to restore the lost communication session by establishing a Gx restoration communication session with PGW . In some implementations PCRF may attempt to restore the lost communication session at the same time or around the same time that the AA answer is provided to P CSCF . In some implementations the restoration communication session may be identified with particular message content e.g. AVPs etc. . For example PCRF may generate a reauthorization request in an attempt to restore the lost communication session with PGW . In some implementations the reauthorization request may include information e.g. an IP address of UE a MSISDN of UE etc. provided in the AA request. PCRF may provide the reauthorization request to PGW based on the address of PGW e.g. the PGW FQDN provided in the AA request. The reauthorization request may be provided to PGW via the Gx restoration session that was previously established by PCRF and PGW at startup and solely for the purpose of session restoration.

As further shown in process may include receiving an update request with session information from the PGW block . For example PGW may receive the reauthorization request and may determine that PCRF wishes to restore the communication session based on the reauthorization request. Based on this determination PGW may identify available session information associated with the communication session previously provided between PCRF and PGW . In some implementations the session information may include entire policy control and charging rules rules status an APN AMBR a QoS event triggers binding information etc. associated with the communication session.

PGW may generate a communication session update request when the reauthorization request is received by PGW . In some implementations PGW may provide the identified available session information e.g. the entire policy control and charging rules the rules status the APN AMBR the QoS the event triggers binding information etc. in the update request. In some implementations PGW may provide the update request with the session information to PCRF . PCRF may receive the update request with the session information from PGW .

As further shown in process may include restoring a Gx communication session based on the update request and the session information block . For example PCRF may restore the communication session between PCRF and PGW based on the update request and the session information. In some implementations PCRF may restore the communication session by utilizing the binding information to locate the communication session and to reestablish the communication with PGW . In some implementations PCRF may maintain a timer for the communication session restoration. In such implementations if the communication session is not restored before the timer expires PCRF may generate an error message e.g. a resource allocation failure message which may result in a failure of the voice video call. PCRF may provide the error message to PC CSCF . However even if the voice video call fails due to the timer expiration a subsequent voice video call may be successful since the communication session restoration may continue and may be successful prior to the subsequent voice video call.

As further shown in process may include providing the voice video request to the PGW via the restored Gx communication session block . For example if PCRF successfully restores the communication session with PGW e.g. prior to the timer expiration PCRF may provide the request for the voice video call to PGW via the restored communication session. In some implementations PCRF may process the AA request received by P CSCF and may create policy and charging control architecture PCC rules for the voice video call via interaction with PGW . In some implementations PGW may receive the request for the voice video call and may process the voice video call per typical call flow procedures.

Although shows example blocks of process in some implementations process may include additional blocks fewer blocks different blocks or differently arranged blocks than those depicted in . Additionally or alternatively two or more of the blocks of process may be performed in parallel.

Video call request may be routed through the network and may eventually be received by P CSCF as shown in . P CSCF may provide video call request to PCRF as further shown in . In example assume that a communication session e.g. a Gx session is established between PCRF and PGW prior to generation of video call request . Further assume that when video call request is generated P CSCF generates an authentication and authorization AA request . AA request may include a media component description an application identifier bandwidth information proxy information an IP address of the first UE a MSISDN of the first UE etc. AA request may further include an address of PGW . As further shown in P CSCF may provide AA request with the address of PGW to PCRF and PCRF may receive AA request .

PCRF may attempt to identify the Gx session provided between PCRF and PGW based on AA request . In example assume that PCRF is unable to identify the Gx session with PGW due to an error condition as indicated by reference number in . Since PCRF is unable to identify the Gx session with PGW PCRF may generate an AA answer in response to AA request . AA answer may include a status e.g. lost state of the Gx session provided between PCRF and PGW . As further shown in PCRF may provide AA answer to P CSCF and P CSCF may receive AA answer . PCRF may also generate a reauthorization request in an attempt to restore the lost communication session with PGW . Reauthorization request may include information e.g. an IP address or a MSISDN of the first UE etc. provided in AA request . As shown in PCRF may provide reauthorization request to PGW based on the address of PGW e.g. provided in AA request .

PGW may receive reauthorization request and may identify available session information associated with the Gx session provided between PCRF and PGW based on reauthorization request . Reauthorization request may cause PGW to generate an update request and to provide the identified available session information in update request as shown in . PGW may provide update request with the session information to PCRF and PCRF may receive update request .

PCRF may restore the Gx session between PCRF and PGW based on update request and the session information as indicated by reference number in . After successfully restoring the Gx session with PGW PCRF may provide video call request to PGW via the restored Gx session. PGW may receive video call request and may process video call request so that the video call may be established between the first user and the second user.

As indicated above are provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to .

The foregoing disclosure provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice of the implementations.

A component is intended to be broadly construed as hardware firmware or a combination of hardware and software.

It will be apparent that systems and or methods as described herein may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these systems and or methods is not limiting of the implementations. Thus the operation and behavior of the systems and or methods were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware can be designed to implement the systems and or methods based on the description herein.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one claim the disclosure of possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

No element act or instruction used herein should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the articles a and an are intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with one or more. Furthermore as used herein the term set is intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with one or more. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

