---

title: Multi-electrode system with vibrating electrodes
abstract: A multi-electrode system includes a fiber holder that holds at least one optical fiber, a plurality of electrodes arranged to generate a heated field to heat the at least one optical fiber, and a vibration mechanism that causes at least one of the electrodes from the plurality of electrodes to vibrate. The electrodes can be disposed in at least a partial vacuum. The system can be used for processing many types of fibers, such processing including, as examples, stripping, splicing, annealing, tapering, and so on. Corresponding fiber processing methods are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09632252&OS=09632252&RS=09632252
owner: 3SAE Technologies, Inc.
number: 09632252
owner_city: Franklin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160627
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. non provisional patent application Ser. No. 14 798 794 filed Jul. 14 2015 entitled Multi Electrode System with Vibrating Electrodes which is a continuation of U.S. non provisional patent application Ser. No. 14 276 684 filed May 13 2014 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 086 539 issued on Jul. 21 2015 entitled Multi Electrode System with Vibrating Electrodes which is a continuation application of U.S. non provisional patent application Ser. No. 13 185 223 filed Jul. 18 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 721 196 issued on May 13 2014 entitled Multi Electrode System with Vibrating Electrodes which is a continuation application of U.S. non provisional patent application Ser. No. 12 688 489 filed Jan. 15 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 985 029 issued on Jul. 26 2011 entitled Multi Electrode System with Vibrating Electrodes which is a continuation in part application of U.S. non provisional patent application Ser. No. 12 027 394 filed Feb. 7 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 670 065 issued on Mar. 2 2010 entitled Multi Electrode System which claimed priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e from commonly owned U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 976 859 filed Oct. 2 2007 entitled Multi Electrode System In A Vacuum U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 953 803 filed Aug. 3 2007 entitled Three phase Arc for Fiber Splicing and Improved Fiber Stripping and U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 888 691 filed Feb. 7 2007 entitled Three Phase Arc for Large Diameter Fiber Splicing and Improved Fiber Stripping the disclosure of each of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

The present inventive concepts relate to the field of fiber optics and more particularly to systems and methods for splicing and stripping optical fibers.

Optical fiber fusion splicers commonly employ an electrical discharge to heat the fibers sufficiently for them to be fused together. This electrical discharge is known in the industry as an arc . However according to some sources a discharge of this current level is not a true arc but a coronal discharge that generates a hot plasma field.

Recently arcs of the same type have been adapted for use in stripping coatings from fibers and cleaning residual debris from mechanically stripped fibers. In the arc is formed between sharply pointed tips of a pair of electrodes to heat a fiber where the electrodes are spaced 1 mm to 10 mm apart as is known. As shown in larger electrode spacing is required to generate an arc for splicing multiple fibers at once e.g. fiber ribbons and for larger diameter fibers . The optical design of some splicers can also require the electrode spacing gap to be larger in order to prevent the electrodes from physically occluding the optical fiber path.

The electrodes are commonly made of tungsten. Although in some cases cerium or thorium are alloyed with the tungsten. These elements lower the thermionic work function of the electrode which causes electrons to more readily leave the surface of the electrode. This allows the discharge to be initiated with a lower initial voltage. Alternatively an external source of ions can be provided to assist in initiating the arc e.g. Ion Enhanced Cold Plasma technology by 3SAE Technology Inc. . It is possible to provide a suitable arc with ordinary steel electrodes and with no external ionization but the repeatability of the arc characteristics is typically poor.

The voltage applied to the electrodes can be DC typically in conjunction with smaller electrode spacing or AC which allows a larger spacing between the electrode tips up to 10 mm or more . The voltage required to initiate the discharge is determined by Paschen s Law which relates the breakdown voltage of a gap between electrodes to a complex and non linear function of the gas present in the gap e.g. typically ordinary air pressure humidity electrode shape electrode material and gap distance. Many of the parameters required to apply Paschen s Law to this system are not known so little quantitative theoretical analysis of splicer arcs has been done. Typically the initiating voltage is determined experimentally to be in the range of 5 kV to 30 kV.

Once the arc has been initiated sustained ionization of the plasma in the discharge requires a lower voltage than initially applied. The impedance i.e. the ratio of applied voltage to current of the plasma as a circuit element is difficult to predict. Splicer arcs are suspected to exhibit negative impedance at some frequencies and current levels. These characteristics make constant voltage operation of a splicer arc very difficult to achieve. Therefore most of such systems are controlled to provide a constant average current. This correlates in a reasonably predictable way with the observed power delivered to the discharge and the resulting temperature of the fibers.

It is useful to provide a means of varying the arc power delivered to the fibers in order to provide correct heating for different fiber types and to compensate for differing conditions. This can be done by altering the current delivered to the sustained arc with the control circuit mentioned above or by pulsing the arc on and off.

Most common optical fibers are 80 m to 125 m in diameter not including outer coatings such as that shown in . However some applications such as high power fiber lasers require fibers up to 1 mm or more in diameter. Most fusion splicers will not accept fibers greater than 200 m in diameter. Specialty splicers exist for Large Diameter Fibers LDF with various maximum diameter capabilities depending on design features.

Successful splicers for the larger end of the LDF 600 m spectrum have typically used resistive filament heating or laser heating rather than an arc. For these large fibers the dielectric nature of the fiber material can cause an arc to curve around the fiber rather than enveloping the entire circumference of the fiber in the plasma field as shown in . This causes uneven heating of the fiber with resulting poor splice quality.

Devices which use arcs to strip fibers can also suffer from uneven heating effects. These arc strippers typically place the fiber just outside the plasma field above or below so that heat from the arc causes decomposition of the coating. This necessarily causes the fiber to be hotter on one side than the other. For most coatings this is not a problem. However some coatings have a relatively narrow temperature window for effective removal and could benefit from more even heat distribution.

Provided are systems and methods using multiple electrodes to generate arcs used for thermal processing of one or more optical fibers including but not limited to splicing annealing diffusion stripping tapering and ablation or combinations thereof. Such systems and methods can also be useful in other applications and contexts such as for making optical fiber couplings. Such multiple electrode systems and methods can employ vibration of one or more of the multiple electrodes to broaden the plasma field while continuing to maintain sufficient power to perform the above functions.

In accordance the present invention a multi electrode system can be a three phase system configured to operate in ambient conditions or in a partial or complete vacuum with vibration or isolation of one or more of the multiple electrodes. There are several benefits of such systems and methods. For example such systems and methods when provided in a partial or complete vacuum provide enhanced isothermic stability of the plasma field due to the elimination or reduction of convection. Compare to conventional systems and methods where as heat from the plasma rises at atmospheric pressure a turbulent upward breeze is created that can disturb the plasma and alter the thermal balance of the plasma or slightly alter the location of the section of the fiber being heated.

Also such systems and methods when provided in a partial or complete vacuum provide enhanced isothermic range of the plasma field due to the elimination or reduction of convection. Compare to conventional systems and methods where as heat from the plasma rises at atmospheric pressure it creates a turbulent upward breeze that can disturb the ion trail between the electrodes. This disruption will destabilize and extinguish a plasma in air that is otherwise completely stable in a vacuum or partial vacuum. Since air is an insulator the dielectric between the electrodes is substantially reduced in a vacuum or partial vacuum. This dielectric reduction allows for an arc to be initiated and maintained at power levels far below what is achievable in air.

Also such systems and methods when provided in a partial or complete vacuum provide reduced electrode oxidation. By reducing the oxygen levels present during plasma generation the electrodes will deteriorate at a substantially slower rate.

Also such systems and methods when provided in a partial or complete vacuum provide elimination of combustion. Some fiber coatings such as acrylate the most common fiber coating are combustible in air at atmospheric pressures and can burn if exposed to a standard arc. When the same process is implemented in a vacuum or partial vacuum the lack of oxygen prevents combustion of the coating allowing it to be thermally ablated a process similar to burst technology .

In accordance with one aspect of the present disclosure provided is a multi electrode system comprising a fiber holder that holds at least one optical fiber a plurality of electrodes arranged to generate a heated field to heat the at least one optical fiber and a vibration mechanism that causes at least one of the electrodes from the plurality of electrodes to vibrate.

The at least one optical fiber can be at least one large diameter optical fiber having a diameter of at least about 125 microns.

The vibration mechanism can broaden a width of the heated field to a full half max of a Gaussian thermal profile.

The system can further comprise a controller that controls the electrode vibration effected by the vibration mechanism.

The frequency of vibration of the vibration mechanism can more than 0 Hz but not more than about 10 Hz.

The plurality of electrodes can generate plasma arcs between adjacent electrodes and the heated field can be a heated plasma field.

The substantially uniform heated field can generate a fiber surface temperature of at least about 1600 C.

The substantially uniform heated field can generate a fiber surface temperature of at least about 3000 C.

The substantially uniform heated field can generate a fiber surface temperature in the range of about 25 C. to about 900 C. for stripping optical fibers.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention provided is a multi electrode system that comprises a fiber holder that holds at least one optical fiber a plurality of electrodes arranged to generate a substantially uniform heated plasma field to heat the at least one optical fiber and a vibration mechanism that causes at least one of the electrodes from the plurality of electrodes to vibrate wherein the vibration mechanism broadens a width of the substantially uniform heated plasma field to a full half max of a Gaussian thermal profile.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention provided is a method of generating a heated field for processing at least one optical fiber. The method includes holding the at least one optical fiber in a fiber holder using a plurality of electrodes generating the heated field to heat the at least one optical fiber and vibrating at least one of the electrodes from the plurality of electrodes.

The at least one optical fiber can be at least one large diameter optical fiber having a diameter of at least about 125 microns.

Vibrating the at least one electrode can broaden a width of the heated field to a full half max of a Gaussian thermal profile.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. can be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are used to distinguish one element from another but not to imply a required sequence of elements. For example a first element can be termed a second element and similarly a second element can be termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present invention. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being on or connected or coupled to another element it can be directly on or connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements can be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present. Other words used to describe the relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion e.g. between versus directly between adjacent versus directly adjacent etc. .

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

In accordance with aspects of the present invention provided is a system having a multi electrode arrangement configured for delivering a substantially even distribution of heat about an optical fiber. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the techniques described herein are applicable to providing arcs used for splicing and or stripping optical fibers. Such multi electrode systems can also be useful in other contexts and applications such as annealing diffusion tapering and ablation. Such systems and methods can also be useful in other applications and contexts such as for making optical fiber couplings. Generally any of the foregoing or combination thereof can be referred to as a multi electrode system a fiber preparation system or a multi electrode fiber preparation system.

In the illustrative embodiment of a multi electrode system comprises three electrodes and which can be disposed around at least one fiber . Here the electrodes are shown in a Y configuration with a cross sectional view of the fiber shown. That is fiber would be extending out of the page substantially perpendicular to the multi electrode arrangement. While not shown the at least one fiber is held by a fiber holder or support such that it can be disposed between the electrodes and . If the at least partial vacuum is used distal portions of the fiber s can exit the vacuum enclosure through appropriate known sealing devices if desired. Such fiber holders are known in the art.

In some embodiments electrodes and can also be disposed in at least a partial vacuum as is shown by dashed line . In a partial vacuum of 22 to 24 Hg gauge vacuum e.g. 200 to 150 torr absolute plasma temperatures as cool as 65 C. have been achieved. Room temperature plasmas are also possible at higher vacuum levels. For some fiber coatings this process can be enhanced e.g. better and faster results by stripping the fiber in an oxygen enriched partial vacuum with cool plasma less than 400 C. . This approach etches the coating off of the fiber as opposed to a pyrolysis removal which can weaken the fiber and leave charring i.e. carbon at the interface of the strip window.

Regardless of whether or not the electrodes and are disposed in at least a partial vacuum by placing three pointed electrodes so their outputs form the vertices of an equilateral triangle around the splice region within which at least one fiber can be located it is possible to provide very evenly distributed heating around the circumference of the fiber . By driving the three electrodes and with high frequency e.g. 30 kHz AC voltages in a three phase configuration three separate arcs can be generated referred to as arc arc and arc in .

In the embodiment of the fiber is completely surrounded by the plasma arcs and providing a heated plasma field having a very even heat distribution. It should be understood that a system and or method in accordance with aspects of the present invention is capable of producing fiber surface temperatures like those produced by systems and methods using less than three electrodes but does so with improved uniformity. For example a system according to aspects of the present invention can produce a plasma field sufficient to generate a fiber surface temperature in the range of about 25 900 C. for stripping and up to about 1 600 C. or more for splicing. For example temperatures in excess of 3 000 C. have been achieved. However if dictated by the physics of the fibers fiber coatings environmental conditions and or other relevant parameters the plasma field could be generated to achieve other fiber surface temperatures.

The electrodes and can be relatively close to the fiber which will expose the fiber directly to the plasma field . Alternatively the electrodes and can be further away which would heat the fiber from the radiant heat of the plasma this can be more suitable for stripping cleaning operations. In various embodiments the multi electrode system can have a plurality of settings e.g. 1 each for splicing and or stripping a large fiber and a small standard fiber. In various embodiments the multi electrode system can be configured for adjusting the distance between the electrodes and within a range of positions. In various embodiments the multi electrode apparatus can be configured to detect the fiber size and self position the electrodes and as a function of the fiber size and the desired operation e.g. splicing annealing diffusion stripping tapering ablation or making couplings. See for example .

For stripping some fiber coatings direct exposure to the arc plasma is beneficial as an example. Ionized oxygen atoms within the plasma field oxidize and ablate the coating away. The electrode spacing can be configured to directly expose the coating surface to the plasma. Otherwise the methods of using this effect are equivalent to those for stripping by thermal decomposition.

The electrodes and can be placed in a one down two up configuration as shown or inverted depending on the requirements of other items near the fiber such as the lenses of an optical system in a splicer . Alternatively the electrodes and can be placed in a horizontal plane or irregularly spaced or angled according to various applications.

In this embodiment the electrodes are supported by or attached to an annulus which can also be referred to as an electrode support. Annulus is coupled or attached to or supported by a vibration mechanism . This arrangement is such that vibration mechanism causes vibration of annulus which in turn causes a corresponding vibration of electrodes . In this embodiment annulus defines an opening that enables easy fiber loading between the electrodes .

Vibrating electrodes can have certain benefits in particular broadening the width of the plasma field. Experimentation to date has shown that a Gaussian thermal profile along the axis of fiber is created when the electrodes are vibrated. Various aspects of the vibration are discussed in more detail with respect to .

The various techniques known for improving and controlling arc performance with conventional two electrode systems can also be applied or adapted to embodiments including pulse width modulation ion injection feedback control etc. The electrodes can also be fitted with shields or focusing sleeves or other technologies intended to alter arc distribution. Known arc bending techniques utilizing dielectrics inserted near the plasma field can also be used.

The principles of the present invention could also be extended to a system of four or more electrodes.

In the example there is an arc present between electrodes and at time 0 s see plots and . At approximately 6 s the arc shifts to the space between electrodes and see plots and . At 13 s the arc moves to electrodes and see plots and and so forth. At any given time an arc should be present between two electrodes with the greatest potential difference between them. The rotating phase sequence takes place so rapidly that the arc appears to be constantly on and substantially constant heating is provided as the thermal time constants of the fiber and surrounding air are substantially longer than the oscillation period of the arc.

As noted in the background information it is extremely difficult to actually control the voltage at the electrodes. However the far more practical method of controlling current to the primary of the step up transformer can be applied in the illustrative embodiment. shows graph having a preferred waveform for the current applied to the transformer primaries. This system of drive currents will produce output voltage waveforms roughly corresponding to those shown in producing a controllable three phase arc.

The primary drive currents for the transformers require three waveforms disposed at 0 degrees phase 120 degrees phase and 240 degrees phase. These can be generated by well known digital or analog means such as a ring counter. In graph plot is for electrode plot is for electrode and plot is for electrode .

The required voltages could be generated from three separate 10CT 780 high voltage transformers and or from a tuned LC configuration wound on a single core. It is also possible for the three transformer and secondaries to be connected in a delta configuration wherein the secondary coils are connected between adjacent pairs of electrodes rather than being referenced to ground as in .

In MOSFETS and drive transformers and . In accordance with various aspects of the invention the multi electrode system can include a dead band feature to increases efficiency and reduce dissipation in the drive transistors MOSFETs and by preventing overlap in conduction between the positive driving and negative driving devices. The dead band feature can also provide a mechanism for adjusting arc power e.g. by varying the width of the dead band . The dead band feature can also enable cleaner transitions between states of the arcs by allowing an existing arc to extinguish momentarily before establishing the next arc in the phase sequence.

The dead band feature can be implemented by producing the controlled current waveforms to include two dead bands of 1 to 49 of the period of the cycle wherein there is substantially no current flow through the transformer primary.

Another embodiment of a three electrode system can generate an arc of substantially the same properties as that of the three electrode system described above with respect to but with one grounded electrode and only two powered electrodes.

In a three phase arc system as described in with respect to electrodes and are each driven by a voltage waveform where the three voltage waveforms were 120 apart in phase. This produces arcs and . In this embodiment electrodes and are oriented on a common axis to form a T configuration with electrode . The performance is substantially the same as if the electrodes where oriented at 120 apart from each other as in the embodiment of . For this embodiment however the configuration is more compact e.g. more suitable to be integrated into a fusion splicer without compromising performance. Those skilled on the art now having the benefit of this disclosure will appreciate that other electrode orientations could be used.

In the present embodiment of electrode is grounded. If electrode and electrode are each driven by an identical waveform at 0 relative phase arc would not be formed as there would be no potential difference between electrodes and . Two equal arcs will be formed that is arcs and forming a V shape.

If electrode remains grounded and electrodes and are driven by voltage waveforms of opposite polarity i.e. 180 relative phase only arc will form. This is because the potential difference between electrodes and is twice as great as the potential between either one of electrodes and and the grounded electrode .

Considering the above cases it seems logical that at some particular degree of phase separation between 0 and 180 between the voltage waveforms applied to electrodes and with electrode grounded that all three arcs would be formed at substantially equal intensity. A theoretical analysis based on vector mathematics suggests that this would occur at 60 relative phase. In implementation it has been found necessary to vary the phase between approximately 40 and 160 depending on various implementation factors such as the frequency and power of the drive waveforms and the spacing and condition of the electrodes. In forming arcs and at substantially equal intensity a substantially uniform heated plasma field is generated around the at least one optical fiber .

In this embodiment electrodes are supported coupled or mounted to an annulus like annulus of . Annulus is coupled or attached to or supported by a vibration mechanism like vibration mechanism . The annulus can be made of any of a variety of materials that maintain structural integrity within anticipated heat ranges such as ceramics.

The vibration mechanism can be any of a variety of types of vibration mechanism such as for example a piezo actuator that experiences oscillation in the form of expansion and contraction in response to an applied AC voltage. In the present embodiment the piezo actuator can be made of a crystal ceramic or other piezo material or combinations thereof. The piezo can be built into a flexure stage to provide precision linear motion.

In the embodiment of the signals which turn the drive MOSFETs and on and off can be generated by a programmable microcontroller unit and provided via buffers and . As examples the MOSFET drivers and can be MC34151 or similar MOSFETs and the microcontroller can be a PAL18F2520 manufactured by Microchip Inc. This circuit of this embodiment allows real time control and adjustment of the duration and phase relationship of the drive signals. The real time adjustments can be made with the goal of maintaining arcs and substantially equal in intensity or to deliberately alter their relative intensity for various purposes.

In order for the microcontroller to be able to sense the arc intensities small value resistors R for example 100 Ohm resistors can be connected in series with the ground return of each drive signal. A voltage develops across the resistor R in direct proportion to the arc current delivered by the electrode . A sense resistor R is provided for each electrode. For example a 20 mA current from electrode would result in a 2V signal across the 100 Ohm sense resistor R.

The sense resistor signals are in the form of high frequency AC voltages. It is possible to rectify and filter these signals to produce DC voltages which are more suitable for measurement by the microcontroller unit .

The simple rectification filtering networks shown include a diode D two resistors R and R and a capacitor C and are provided for each of the three electrodes. This network produces a voltage proportional to the arithmetic mean i.e. average of the absolute value of the sense resistor voltage. If greater accuracy is required well known means can be used to produce a voltage proportional to the quadratic mean e.g. root mean square or RMS of the sense resistor voltage. The RMS value is a better measurement of the power delivered into the arc which may be important in some applications.

An additional improvement to the embodiment can be to make the power supply adjustable which is shown as 12V in . An adjustable buck regulator circuit well known in the art can adjust the voltage downward from 12V to a very low voltage e.g. 1V or any desired intermediate voltage. This can be useful when an arc of very low power is required as it has been found that very low pulse widths to the MOSFET s the previous method of obtaining low power operation can result in unstable arc operation. Alternatively a lower input voltage and or lower transformer step up ratio can be used in conjunction with a boost type regulator to provide an equivalent range of voltages.

Specifically in step initial circuit settings are entered for electrodes and including initial current I. In step a determination is made of whether I I. If the answer is yes then the method continues to step . If in step IIthen the process continues to step where the pulse width for electrode is increased. As with step after steps the process continues .

In step a determination is made of whether I I I. If the answer is yes the process continues to step . If in step I I Ithen the process continues to step where the phase difference is increased. If in step II

It will be apparent that there are other possible arrangements of the electrodes that are within the spirit and scope of the invention. These alternative arrangements may be preferable in circumstances where it is desired to change the pattern of heating of the fiber or where an alternative arrangement facilitates the positioning of the electrodes with respect to other equipment in a larger system.

In the fiber is oriented orthogonally with respect to the electrodes and in the fiber is oriented in parallel with the electrodes. In the electrodes are oriented in a cross X arrangement. In the electrodes are arranged diagonally with respect to the fiber . In pairs of electrodes are oriented in different planes and the fiber is oriented in a third plane that passes between the planes within which the electrodes are oriented. In the embodiments of the electrodes can all be in the same plane. In the embodiments of the fiber may be in the same plane as the electrodes or proximate to the plane of the electrodes.

In any of the embodiments shown in fiber could be arranged as if it were coming out of the page e.g. substantially perpendicular to the page and field . As an example shows the embodiment of where fiber is coming out of the page. shows the embodiment of where fiber is coming out of the page. And shows the embodiment where electrodes and are aligned and electrodes and are angled and fiber is coming out of the page. The embodiment of could also be used with fiber crossing arcs and and or in some other arrangement.

These are only examples of possible alternative arrangements of the electrodes and fiber. The present invention lends itself to a wide variety of arrangements due to its unique capability of maintaining a plurality of controlled arc discharges. In any of the three electrode embodiments the circuit of could be used to drive such electrodes.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other preferred embodiments it is understood that various modifications can be made therein and that the invention or inventions can be implemented in various forms and embodiments and that they can be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim that which is literally described and all equivalents thereto including all modifications and variations that fall within the scope of each claim.

