---

title: Peer-to-peer data storage
abstract: A determination is made of users that form a group within a social network in which the users communicate with each other over a network with electronic devices in a client-server architecture. The users in the group within the social network form a peer-to-peer (P2P) storage group within a P2P storage network. In the P2P storage network, users are peers that act as a client and a server for each other.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09578102&OS=09578102&RS=09578102
owner: 
number: 09578102
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20160224
---
The rapid expansion of digital information has caused a large demand for data storage. In order to satisfy this demand enormous amounts of data are stored across thousands and thousands of data centers. These data centers consume massive amounts of energy and account for a significant percentage of electrical load being consumed across the United States. Unfortunately these data centers are costly to run and inefficient in their use of power. They waste large amounts of electricity and contribute to environmental pollution.

One example embodiment is a method that determines members that form a group within a social network in which the members communicate with each other over a network with electronic devices in a client server architecture. A peer to peer P2P storage network is formed from the group of members within the social network. The members of the group in the social network become peers in the P2P storage network.

Example embodiments include systems apparatus and methods that store data on peer to peer P2P networks.

Users or peers in a P2P network store digital data on personal storage devices of each other. A user in a P2P network can backup across storage devices of other peers in the P2P network without using a central server. Data is thus stored on electronic devices of peers as opposed to storing this data on a storage server or in data center. P2P storage thus offers an alternative to storing and backing up data at a single or central location such as a data center.

The servers A to M include a processor unit with one or more processors and computer readable medium CRM such as random access memory and or read only memory. Server A includes processor unit A and CRM A and server M includes processor unit M and CRM M. The processing unit communicates with the CRM to execute operations and tasks that implement or assist in implementing example embodiments. One or more of the servers can also include a user agent and a user profile such server M including user agent and user profile .

The electronic devices A to N include a processor unit with one or more processors and computer readable medium CRM such as random access memory and or read only memory. Electronic device A includes processor unit A and CRM A and electronic device N includes processor unit N and CRM N. The processing unit communicates with the CRM to execute operations and tasks that implement or assist in implementing example embodiments. One or more of the electronic devices can also include a user agent and a user profile such as electronic device A including user agent and user profile .

By way of example the electronic devices A to N include but are not limited to handheld portable electronic devices HPEDs portable electronic devices computing devices electronic devices with cellular or mobile phone capabilities digital cameras desktop computers servers portable computers such as tablet and notebook computers handheld audio playing devices example handheld devices for downloading and playing music and videos personal digital assistants PDAs combinations of these devices and other portable and non portable electronic devices and systems.

By way of example the networks can include one or more of the internet an intranet an extranet a cellular network a local area network LAN a home area network HAN metropolitan area network MAN a wide area network WAN public and private networks etc.

By way of example the storage can include various types of storage that include but are not limited to magnetic storage and optical storage such as hard disks magnetic tape disk cartridges universal serial bus USB flash memory compact disk read only memory CD ROM digital video disk read only memory DVD ROM CD recordable memory CD rewritable memory photoCD and web based storage. Storage can include storage pools that are hosted by third parties such as an operator of a data center. The electronic devices and or servers can use the storage to store files software applications data objects etc. Storage can be accessed through a web service application programming interface a web based user interface or other mechanisms.

The P2P groups storage systems and or networks and include a plurality of peers or nodes that communicate with each other. For example the P2P group storage system and or network includes a plurality of peers or nodes and the P2P group storage system and or network includes a plurality of peers or nodes . Electronic devices A to N in P2P group storage system and or network show examples of peers or nodes. In the P2P group storage system and or network peers communicate directly with each other whereas in the P2P group storage system and or network peers communicate indirectly with each other such as through a network and or network . Further P2P group storage system and or network shows a node connected to and or in communication with a peripheral or storage device .

In a P2P group storage system and or network a link exists between two nodes that know each other e.g. node knows the location of node and can communicate directly or indirectly with node . The P2P group storage system and or network can be a structured P2P network such as a network with a specific overlay that organizes peers according to criteria and algorithms using distributed hash table based indexing or an unstructured P2P network such as a network that does not impose a structure on the overlay networks in which peers connect in an ad hoc fashion . By way of example the P2P group storage system and or network can include P2P systems with a single routing layer with equal peers centralized P2P systems with a central server that executes functions and hybrid P2P systems that allow infrastructure nodes to exist. In the P2P groups storage systems and or networks members or peers can provide resources such as bandwidth storage space and or computing power. Administrative duties can be designated to one or more peers distributed across the peers or designated to a P2P manager or system administrator such as a manager or administrator in a server .

The computer system and or P2P groups storage systems and or networks maintain a file redundancy scheme in order to ensure that files are sufficiently available and not be lost destroyed or damaged. By way of example erasure coding is used to reduce replication requirements in the systems groups networks. In erasure coding messages of k symbols are transformed into longer messages or code words with n symbols such that the original message is recoverable from a subset of the n symbols.

Furthermore the systems groups and or networks can backup files using a compression and encryption scheme. For example files are compressed and then encrypted with a private key that is provided to accessed by or known by the file owner. After the file is compressed and encrypted it is erasure coded and then distributed in fragments or sections to other members or peers in the network.

According to block a determination is made to participate in a P2P storage network. Participation in the P2P storage network includes allocating storage to a P2P network and or consuming storage in the P2P network. The determination to participate in P2P storage can be made by a user of an electronic device such as the owner or user of the electronic device that will consume and or provide storage to the P2P network a user agent of the user a manufacturer of an electronic device such as the electronic device that will consume and or provide storage to the P2P network a software application such as the software application that executes on the electronic devices of users to enable electronic devices to consume and or provide storage to the P2P network an electronic device a computer such as a server and or an occurrence of another act.

Consider an example in which a user desires to backup data stored on a hard disk drive. Instead of purchasing a backup hard drive or storing the data on a cloud storage server the user decides to join a P2P storage network and backup the data on this network.

Consider another example in which a user agent of a user monitors storage space of the user s electronic device and determines that this storage space is becoming full. The user agent decides to enroll the user in a P2P storage group in order to increase the amount of storage available to the electronic device. After the user agent joins the P2P storage group on behalf of the user the user agent uploads a portion of the data stored on the storage space of the electronic device to peer devices in the P2P storage group. This process of moving data from the storage space of the electronic device to storage space in the P2P storage group frees up or makes available more local memory for use on the user s electronic device.

Consider an example in which a user purchases a new handheld portable electronic device HPED such as a new smartphone or a tablet computer. The HPED includes P2P storage software that automatically backs up data on the HPED to a P2P storage network. Storage of the data on the P2P storage network is set as a default position on the HPED. This default can be set for example by the manufacturer of the HPED or by the inclusion of the P2P storage software on the HPED.

Consider an example in which occurrence of another act determines participation in P2P storage. A user joins a social network and the social network includes a default rule stating that users joining the social network also join a P2P storage group or network. Thus members in the social network also become members of a P2P storage group in which users of the social network are peers that store data for each other.

According to block a determination is made of an amount of P2P storage to allocate to the P2P storage network.

A variety of factors can be used to determine the amount of P2P storage to allocate to the P2P storage network. These factors include but are not limited to one or more of the following an upper limit amount input from a user or determined by an electronic device and or software program an amount equal to or approximately equal to an amount of P2P storage already being consumed or intended to be consumed by an electronic device a random amount a predetermined amount a mandatory minimum amount a mandatory token amount which causes the device to register its space and therefore itself to the network registration would provide a third party such as the hardware manufacturer or the network provider a measure of the number of activated potential units and how much each unit could potentially supply an amount of available or free storage on one or more electronic devices a ratio or percentage of available storage versus occupied storage a type or model of electronic device an amount of payment and or compensation being received for the allocation and an analysis of previous and or historic data usage upload bandwidth download bandwidth and or historic network online time.

Consider an example in which a user has an HPED that communicates with a hard disk drive that is remotely located from the HPED. These two devices have a total storage capacity of one terabyte with five hundred gigabytes available. The HPED decides to allocate 100 gigabytes of this available storage to a P2P storage network. After this allocation the HPED and hard disk drive have a total storage capacity of one terabyte with four hundred gigabytes available and one hundred gigabytes used and or reserved for the P2P storage network.

Consider another example in which a user agent of a user monitors and tracks storage space on a tablet computer of a user. The user agent analyzes the storage history of this tablet computer over a time period such as during and throughout the life of the tablet computer. This storage history includes but is not limited to one or more of total storage capacity occupied storage capacity available storage capacity changes in occupied versus available storage capacity including rate of changes and time of changes upload bandwidth download bandwidth processing speed and time online and or time connected to a network such as the internet. Based on the analysis of this storage history the user agent determines that the tablet computer can allocate thirty percent of its current available storage capacity to a P2P storage network.

Consider an example in which a user purchases a notebook computer that has a total storage capacity of one terabyte. The notebook computer has a predetermined amount of this storage capacity allocated for P2P storage such as allocating 5 10 15 20 etc. of the storage capacity to P2P storage. This allocation can be set by the manufacturer of the notebook computer and can be a default position that can be changed by the user a software application and or the user agent. Alternatively the allocation amount can be hardcoded and not changeable.

Consider an example in which the occurrence of another act determines an amount of storage to allocate to P2P storage. A user joins a P2P storage group and this group includes a default rule that states users joining the group contribute a minimum amount of storage to the P2P storage group. This minimum amount of storage could be a percentage of an HPED s available physical and network storage such as a percentage of the user s current available storage capacity or a fixed amount of storage such as a preset amount of 10 gigabytes 20 gigabytes . . . 100 gigabytes 110 gigabytes 120 gigabytes . . . 500 gigabytes 600 gigabytes 700 gigabytes 800 gigabytes 900 gigabytes 1 terabyte 2 terabytes etc. . Thus the occurrence or act of joining the group triggers a default rule that determines the amount of storage.

Consider another example in which users who join the P2P storage group early get better or different storage terms. For example users joining sooner get a larger ratio storage consumption to allocation than users joining later. For instance the first one thousand users to join the P2P storage network receive a five to one ratio 5 1 of consumption to allocation. So if a user joins first and allocates one terabyte to peer storage then the user gets five terabytes of peer storage to consume. The second one thousand users to join the P2P storage network receive a four to one ratio 4 1 of consumption to allocation. The third one thousand users to join the P2P storage network receive a three to one ratio 3 1 . The fourth one thousand users to join the P2P storage network receive a two to one ratio 2 1 . Users joining thereafter receive a one to one ratio 1 1 of consumption to allocation.

Example embodiments include methods in which the decision to join a P2P storage network the determination as to how much memory to consume and or allocate in the P2P storage network and the determination as to how much bandwidth to allocate to the P2P storage network are performed without knowledge of and or instruction from a user. For example a user agent for a user enrolls a user in a P2P storage group and allocates a portion of available memory for storage to peers in the P2P storage group. Furthermore the user agent determines what percentages of the user s bandwidth are available to receive files from peers and upload files to P2P storage.

Furthermore example embodiments include P2P storage networks in which users or peers in the network allocate and consume different amounts of data. Some users or peers allocate and or consume more data than other users and peers in a same P2P storage network while some users or peers allocate and or consume less data than other users and peers.

Further yet example embodiments include P2P storage networks in which users or peers in the network allocate and consume different amounts of bandwidth. Some users or peers allocate and or consume more bandwidth to the P2P storage network than other users and peers whiles some users or peers allocate and or consume less bandwidth than other users and peers.

According to block a notice is provided of the determination to participate in the P2P storage network. This notification can include the amount of P2P storage determined to be allocated to the P2P storage network. This notification can be transmitted and or provided to a special always on P2P node a server a P2P manager that manages the P2P storage network a software application associated with the P2P storage network a user and or the peers in the P2P storage network. By way of further example the notification is displayed to a person on a display of an electronic device stored in memory and or transmitted over a network to a person and or an electronic device.

According to block an electronic device receives and or transmits data as a peer in the P2P storage network. The electronic device receives and or stores data per rules governing the participation of the electronic device in the P2P storage network. The electronic device stores for the peers an amount of data equivalent to the amount of storage allocated to the P2P storage network.

According to block a discovery is made in which files and or information are stored on electronic devices of a user. The memories of the electronic devices of the user are searched to determine a location a size a type and or an identity of files and or information being stored.

Files and or information can be stored across different types of memory and or storage including but not limited to primary storage such as memory that includes Random Access Memory RAM and Read Only Memory ROM secondary storage such as hard disks magnetic tapes solid state drives Blu ray disks BDs Digital Versatile Discs DVDs flash memory and other storage devices external to the processor and tertiary storage such as Universal Serial Bus Flash Drives and other types of removable mass storage devices . These types of memory and or storage are searched to discover files and or information. Furthermore the storage can be remote from the node e.g. not physically fastened to the node . For example the storage can be LAN storage WLAN storage and or cloud storage. The node can dedicate which storage is allocated to the P2P network storage including P2P storage dedicated to an electronic device from another P2P storage cluster or group.

A file can be identified using different types of methods depending for example on the type of file a type of device storing the file and or the operating system. For instance a file can be identified using a filename a link that points to the file an extension a directory with a list of files and or a list of links to files a name and a path etc.

A determination and or identification of the types of files being stored can also be made. The types of files vary depending on the type of electronic device the operating system hardware installed and the software installed on the electronic device. By way of example the types of files include but are not limited to system files program files document files multimedia files regular and or ordinary files text files binary files executable files directory files and special files. Different types of files can have different extensions such as ADM ART BAT DAT DOC GIF MID MME PDF PPT PNG PXT RTF SCR TIF TXT VSD WAV and XLS to name a few examples.

Files and or information can be prioritized based on one or more factors that include but are not limited to a type of file a file extension a location where the file and or information are stored a type of memory that stores the file and or information an electronic device that includes the file and or information a size of the file and or information a number of times the user accessed and or viewed the file and or information an amount of time the user spent accessing and or viewing the file and or information whether the file and or information was transmitted such as being transmitted in an email what keywords or user comments are associated with the file and or information what content is included in the file and or information how many users viewed and or accessed the file and or information a name of the file and or information a date and or age of the file and or information a date the file and or information was last revised or visited or accessed a name of a folder or directory in which the file and or information is stored whether the file and or information was downloaded the source of origination of the file whether the file and or information was purchased the purchase price of the file and or information from where and or whom the file and or information was obtained whether the file and or information is located in primary storage or secondary storage or tertiary storage whether the file and or information is located in an archival system or already backed up whether a copy of the file and or information exists whether the file and or information are encrypted and or compressed a type of encryption algorithm and or method of encryption including operating system based file system based or file based and or a type of compression and or method of compression including operating system based file system based or file based .

According to block the discovered files and or information are sent to P2P storage based on the prioritization. Files and or information with a higher priority are transmitted to the P2P storage before files and or information with a lower priority. Alternatively files and or information with a lower priority are transmitted to the P2P storage before files and or information with a higher priority.

Consider an example in which a user purchases a P2P software application with a tablet computer and joins a P2P storage network. The P2P software application automatically executes and discovers that the user owns the tablet computer a smartphone and a notebook computer. The software application then scans each of these electronic devices and generates an inventory of which files are stored on each of these devices. The software application further determines that the user spends about fifty percent of his computer time listening to music twenty percent of his time downloading files from the internet fifteen percent of his time editing photographs and the remaining fifteen percent of his time devoted to a variety of different computer tasks. Based on this determination the software application establishes a first priority for music files a second priority for files downloaded from the internet a third priority for photographs and a fourth priority to other files. Based on this prioritization the software application begins to transmit the files to the P2P storage network for backup.

Consider another example in which download files are provided a higher priority. An HPED runs a background application that backs up data to the P2P storage group at a relatively slower rate. The user begins to download a music file from the Internet. This download takes priority as active storage and receives a higher bandwidth for immediate backup to the P2P storage group.

Consider an example in which a user navigates to a website with an HPED joins a P2P storage group and receives fifty gigabytes of P2P storage for joining the network. Since memory in the HPED already stores ninety gigabytes of files the HPED prioritizes these files to determine which files will be backed up to the P2P storage group and which files will not be backed up to the P2P storage group. The HPED assigns priorities as follows a first highest priority to the files that have been accessed viewed edited and or moved within the last month and a second highest priority to files that have been downloaded from the internet and or purchased. Additionally the HPED performs a keyword search and locates important and or priority documents. By way of example these documents includes files in a folder entitled Important files designated as do not delete documents that were mentioned and or transmitted in an email and documents that have been viewed more than two times over the last year. These documents are designated as third highest priority. The first second and third highest priority documents account for forty five gigabytes of storage which means the user still has five gigabytes of unused P2P storage. The HPED provides the user with a list and or identification of which files were transmitted to P2P storage.

Consider an example in which a user has a limited amount of P2P storage and this amount is not sufficient to store all of the users file and or information. A machine learning user agent executes on a cloud server that is in communication with an HPED of the user and this user agent determines which files are stored on the P2P storage which files are removed or deleted from the P2P storage and which files are denied from being stored on the P2P storage. The user agent continually or continuously monitors user interface UI actions with the HPED to learn and to decide how to manage the P2P storage. For instance the user mentions in an email to his mother that he will soon resume his work on an article about the environment. Based on keywords extracted and or analyzed from this email the user agent locates a document that the user accessed and worked on several months ago about the environment and then transmits a copy of this document to P2P storage.

An amount of P2P storage that a user consumes can be based on various factors. For example a P2P storage group can have rules that govern the amount of storage that each user consumes. For instance users are allowed to consume an amount of P2P storage equivalent to an amount of P2P storage that the users allocate to the group. If a peer user desires to consume fifty gigabytes of P2P storage then this peer user contributes fifty gigabytes of storage for use by the peers. As another example the P2P storage group can allow users to purchase P2P storage. For instance users of P2P storage are allowed to purchase P2P storage from the group for payment of a fee even if the users do not contribute storage to the group. As another example the P2P storage group can allow users to contribute storage without also consuming P2P storage. For instance users join the P2P storage group and then sell storage to the group. These users are members of the P2P storage group but are contributors of storage and not also consumers of storage. As another example the P2P storage group can allow users to contribute and consume different amounts of storage. For instance a first user in the P2P storage group contributes one hundred gigabytes of storage and consumes one terabyte of storage and a second user in the P2P storage group contributes two terabytes of storage and consumes no storage. As another example a user can decide to prioritize quick accessibility to files or to prioritize a larger volume of storage accessible at a slower rate. The former prioritization is suitable for real time applications and the latter prioritization is suitable for backing up data. Furthermore a slider switch can be provided to adjust what the user prefers. For instance if the slider switch were in a left most position then access speed would be greatest but the amount of storage less e.g. ten gigabytes . On the other hand if the slider switch were in a right most position then the access speed would be at a much slower data rate but the amount of storage amount more great e.g. one hundred gigabytes .

Furthermore users can adjust or chose one or more aspects or dimensions of the storage. These aspects or dimensions include but are not limited to volume of storage allocated to the network versus the amount of consumed by the user speed the time to write versus the time to read cost e.g. is the user paying for extra storage or receiving payment for supplying storage and reliability e.g. a statistical likelihood of the file being available at a certain time such as a promised or guaranteed time . Each of these dimensions can be realized in a slider or other element that enables users to select a quantity of the dimension. For example a user can choose a lower price but have a larger volume to consume with a slower rate of data retrieval. For example a user can pay money to have a high rate of data retrieval and a high rate of read and write times.

According to block a determination is made of an amount of P2P storage being consumed by a peer and an amount of P2P storage being allocated by the peer to a P2P storage network.

The amount of P2P storage being consumed by the peer and the amount of P2P storage being allocated by the peer to the P2P storage network can be actual amounts e.g. amounts already or currently being consumed and allocated by the peer or future amounts e.g. amounts the peer is requesting to consume and allocate . For example a peer of a P2P storage group can request an amount of P2P storage to consume such as a peer requesting one hundred gigabytes of P2P storage. This peer already uses twenty gigabytes of P2P storage and is requesting an additional eighty gigabytes of P2P storage. As another example the amount of P2P storage can be based on need such as a user agent determining that the electronic devices of a user need one terabyte of P2P storage in order to backup data of the user. The user agent notifies the P2P storage network in order to secure this storage for the user. As another example the amount of storage can be determined by calculating the total available capacity and then rationing to each user according to usage patterns requests payments longevity of being a member of the group etc.

As another example an electronic device of a user joins the P2P storage network and proceeds to consume and allocate various different amounts of P2P storage. These amounts continually change over time as storage needs of the user change. An electronic P2P storage manager monitors and tracks the amounts of P2P storage being consumed and allocated by the user.

According to block a comparison is made between the determined amount of P2P storage for consumption and the determined amount of P2P storage for allocation.

By way of example the amounts are compared to determine whether the amount of P2P storage for consumption equals is greater than or is less than the amount of P2P storage for allocation. The amounts can also be compared to determine a percentage or ratio such as dividing the amount P2P storage for consumption by the amount of P2P storage for allocation dividing the amount of P2P storage for allocation by the amount of P2P storage for consumption dividing the amount P2P storage for consumption by the amount of P2P storage for allocation plus the amount of P2P storage for consumption and dividing the amount P2P storage for allocation by the amount of P2P storage for allocation plus the amount of P2P storage for consumption.

The amount of P2P storage for consumption and the amount of P2P storage for allocation can be compared against other amounts and or criteria as well. For example the amount of P2P storage consumption and the amount of P2P storage allocation are compared against a predetermined amount or an agreed amount. For instance a user agent of a user joins the P2P storage network and agrees to ten terabytes of P2P storage consumption and zero P2P storage allocation. After a period of time the P2P storage consumption of the user exceeds ten terabytes by one terabyte. A comparison of the agreed P2P storage consumption i.e. ten terabytes is made against the actual P2P storage being consumed i.e. eleven terabytes and this comparison reveals a surplus of one terabyte of P2P storage being consumed.

According to block the amount of P2P storage for consumption and the amount of P2P storage for allocation are classified based on the comparison. This classification depends on to what numbers or amounts the amounts of P2P storage consumption and allocation are being compared. Some examples are provided below.

Consider an example in which a user joins a P2P storage network and agrees to consume and allocate equivalent amounts of P2P storage. During the course of storage usage a comparison is made between the amount of P2P storage that the user consumes and the amount of P2P storage that the user allocates. This comparison reveals one of the following 

Consider an example in which a software program joins a P2P storage network on behalf of its user and agrees to pay fees and or receive payments based on P2P storage consumption and allocation. During the course of storage usage a comparison is made between the amount of P2P storage that the user consumes and the amount of P2P storage that the user allocates. This comparison reveals one of the following 

According to block an action is taken based on the classification. The action taken depends on one or more of the comparison the classification and rules governing the P2P storage network.

Examples of these actions include but are not limited to charging the user a fee paying the user a fee reducing or increasing an amount of P2P storage consumption reducing or increasing an amount of P2P storage allocation taking no action notifying the user and or a user agent of the user terminating an agreement with the user executing a clause and or condition in an agreement with the user redistributing data into or out of the P2P storage network deleting data from the P2P storage network adding data to the P2P storage network re prioritizing data stored or not stored in the P2P storage network adjusting or altering a dimension of storage such as increasing or decrease one of speed volume payments or reliability .

Consider an example in which a user agrees to use one petabyte of P2P storage in which the user s data is distributed across various peers in the P2P storage network. The user is a paying customer that does not contribute or allocate any storage capacity to the P2P storage network. During the course of the agreement between the user and the P2P storage network the user begins to consume more than one petabyte of P2P storage. This overconsumption causes an electronic P2P storage manager to shift data from the P2P storage network to another storage location such as sending the surplus data to a data center a server or another P2P storage network. The P2P storage manager can also re prioritize data in order to determine which data to move from the P2P storage network and which new data to accept into the P2P storage network.

According to block a determination is made of an amount of P2P storage for consumption and an amount of P2P storage for allocation to a P2P storage network. These amounts include future and actual or current amounts of P2P storage being consumed and or allocated in the P2P storage network.

According to block factors are monitored that affect the amount of P2P storage for consumption and or the amount of P2P storage for allocation to the P2P storage network. The factors can increase decrease or not affect the amount of P2P storage for consumption and or the amount of P2P storage for allocation.

Example factors include but are not limited to a time of day an amount of available or free memory on an electronic device an amount of used memory on an electronic device a percentage of available memory versus used memory on an electronic device terms in a contract an amount of P2P storage already being consumed by a user an amount of P2P storage already being allocated by a user a number of peers in a P2P storage network bandwidth to upload and or download data to and or from a P2P storage network and instructions from a user and or user agent.

According to block a determination is made whether to adjust the amount of P2P storage for consumption and or the amount of P2P storage for allocation. When the answer to this determination is no flow proceeds to block . When the answer to this determination is yes flow proceeds to block .

According to block an adjustment is made to the amount of P2P storage for consumption and or the amount of P2P storage for allocation to the P2P storage network. The adjustments include but are not limited to increasing an amount of P2P storage for consumption increasing an amount of P2P storage for allocation decreasing an amount of P2P storage for consumption decreasing an amount of P2P storage for allocation increasing a bandwidth to upload and or download P2P storage for consumption increasing a bandwidth to upload and or download P2P storage for allocation decreasing a bandwidth to upload and or download P2P storage for consumption decreasing a bandwidth to upload and or download P2P storage for consumption increasing or decreasing storage reliability increasing or decreasing payments made to or received from the user.

According to block a notice is provided of the adjustment to the amount of P2P storage for consumption and or the amount of P2P storage for allocation. This notification can be transmitted and or provided to a node or a peer a server a computer a P2P manager that manages the P2P storage network a software application associated with the P2P storage network a user and or the peers in the P2P storage network. By way of further example the notification is displayed to a person on a display of an electronic device stored in memory and or transmitted over a network to a person and or an electronic device.

The amounts of P2P storage for consumption and allocation can be static i.e. showing little or no change and or dynamic i.e. able to change in motion and or not steady . The amounts of bandwidth allocated to the P2P storage network such as bandwidth allocated to receive data from peers and bandwidth allocated to transmit data to peers can be static and or dynamic. For example the amounts of P2P storage for consumption and or allocation and bandwidth can change continually continuously or periodically depending on one or more of the factors. Further changes to the amounts can occur in real time.

Consider an example in which an electronic device joins a P2P storage network and agrees to allocate twenty percent of its available solid state drive SSD storage to peers on the P2P storage network. An electronic manager on the P2P storage network periodically monitors the available SSD storage on the electronic device and adjusts the amount of allocated memory based on the monitoring. For instance at one point in time the manager determines that twenty percent of the SSD storage is twenty seven terabytes so this amount of memory is allocated to peers in the P2P storage network. Later in time the manager determines that twenty percent of the SSD storage is thirty one terabytes so the manager adds four terabytes of memory to the P2P storage network the total now being thirty one terabytes of memory allocated to the P2P storage network .

Consider an example in which an HPED of a user allocates and contributes 30 gigabytes of storage to a P2P storage network. A user agent of the user determines that the HPED has a surplus of available storage each night while the user is sleeping. During nighttime hours the HPED remains on and connected to the Internet. The user agent instructs the P2P storage network that the HPED has an additional fifty gigabytes of storage that are available each night from 11 00 p.m. until 7 00 a.m. Subsequently the HPED provides thirty gigabytes of storage to the P2P storage network during daytime hours and eighty gigabytes of storage during the night from 11 00 p.m. until 7 00 a.m. Thus the amount of P2P storage that a peer allocates to the peers as peer storage is dynamic such that the amount increases during nighttime hours and decreases during daytime hours.

Consider an example in which thousands or hundreds of thousands of users increase their P2P storage allocation during nighttime hours. This surplus of temporary storage can be large such as exceeding 1 petabyte 5 petabytes 10 petabytes etc. This storage is allocated to the P2P storage network and is used as short term cache for processing large amounts of data temporary backup emergency backup overflow backup etc. If these users were distributed throughout different continents and hemispheres of the world then the P2P storage network would have a continuous surplus of temporary P2P storage that is available to users in the P2P storage network.

According to block a determination is made that an electronic device stores a surplus of P2P storage in a P2P network.

For example an electronic device has a surplus of P2P storage when the electronic device stores more peer storage than it previously allocated to store. For instance an electronic device has a surplus of P2P storage when the electronic device agrees to store ten gigabytes of P2P storage but actually stores twelve gigabytes of P2P storage.

As another example a peer in the P2P storage network agrees to store one terabyte of data for peers in the network. After several months of storing this amount of data the peer instructs a P2P manager for the network that the peer wants to reduce the storage to five hundred gigabytes. The peer thus has a surplus of five hundred gigabytes to distribute back to the network.

According to block the electronic device transmits the surplus of P2P storage to one or more peers in the P2P storage network.

Once a determination is made that an electronic device stores a surplus of peer storage then this surplus is transmitted to one or more other peers that have not reached their allocated peer storage limits. For example if an electronic device has a surplus of two gigabytes of P2P storage then this electronic device transmits two gigabytes of data to one or more other peer electronic devices that have not reached their limit of P2P storage.

In an example embodiment entire or complete files are stored to one or more peers. In another example embodiment files are split or divided into segments or chunks that are stored across multiple different peers.

According to block a determination is made that an electronic device stores a deficiency of P2P storage.

For example an electronic device stores a deficiency of P2P storage when the electronic device stores less peer storage or data than it desires to store. For instance an electronic device stores a deficiency of P2P storage when the electronic device agrees to store ten gigabytes of P2P storage but actually stores eight gigabytes of P2P storage. As another example the electronic device wants to increase its storage of peer data.

According to block the electronic device receives the deficiency of P2P storage from one or more peers in the P2P storage network.

Once a determination is made that an electronic device stores a deficiency of peer storage then the electronic device transmits a notice of this deficiency to a central server a designated peer one or more peers and or all of the peers. Alternatively the electronic device sends a request for additional storage to peers in the P2P storage network that have a surplus of peer storage. For example if an electronic device has a deficiency of two gigabytes of P2P storage then this electronic device requests two gigabytes of additional data from one or more other electronic devices in the P2P storage network e.g. transmit the request to peers that surpassed their limit of P2P storage . is a method to redistribute P2P storage among peers in a P2P storage network.

According to block requests to increase P2P storage are matched with requests to decrease P2P storage and requests to decrease P2P storage are matched with requests to increase P2P storage.

According to block P2P storage is redistributed within the P2P storage network to match the requests. P2P storage is transferred form one or more peers to one or more other peers to redistribute this storage among the peers.

Consider an example in which a peer in a P2P storage network stores fifty gigabytes of P2P storage. This peer desires to reduce this amount by ten gigabytes. Five other peers in the P2P storage network can each receive an additional two gigabytes of peer storage and still be within or under their peer storage limits. The peer having the ten gigabytes surplus transmits the extra ten gigabytes of storage to the five other peers such that each of these other peers receives two gigabytes of peer data from the peer.

Data in the P2P storage network can be redistributed exchanged and or swapped among peers in the P2P storage network in order to more evenly distribute peer data among the peers. For example each peer maintains an equivalent or approximately equivalent ratio of actual stored peer data to allocated or requested peer data. As another example each peer maintains a desired or requested amount of stored peer data. As another example each peer stores an amount of peer data that is not beyond a desired amount of peer data.

Consider an example in which a first peer allocates ten gigabytes of its storage to store data for the P2P storage network. The first peer actually stores six gigabytes which represents a ratio of six gigabytes over ten gigabytes i.e. six tenths or sixty percent . A second peer allocates ten gigabytes of its storage to store data for the P2P storage network. The second peer actually stores eight gigabytes which represents a ratio of eight gigabytes over ten gigabytes i.e. eight tenths or eighty percent . The second peer proportionally stores more data than the first peer. The first and second peers are matched together such that he second peer transfers one gigabyte of peer storage to the first peer so both the first and second peers each store seven gigabytes i.e. seven tenths or seventy percent . After the transfer both the first and second peers store an equivalent ratio of peer data.

Consider another example in which a peer has one gigabyte too much of peer storage. The peer asks neighboring nodes whether they can accept a gigabyte of storage. The peer determines closest nodes and asks them first e.g. the peer pings for neighboring nodes or reviews a list of available peers that can accept more storage . The discovery of other peers can be performed without a storage manager.

In an example embodiment one or more P2P storage managers manage the P2P storage network. By way of example responsibilities of the manager include but are not limited to one or more of monitoring P2P storage transactions between peers receiving requests to join the P2P storage network adding new peer members to the P2P storage network removing existing peer members from the P2P storage network tracking where data is stored among the peers responding to requests from a peer to increase or decrease P2P storage for consumption and or P2P storage for allocation matching requests to increase amounts of stored peer data with requests to decrease amounts of stored peer data determining how and where to redistribute peer storage among the peers and executing and or assisting in executing blocks discussed herein.

The P2P storage manager and or the responsibilities of the manager can be designated as one or more of the peers located in a central server or shared or distributed across many or all of the peers.

The determination includes determining which users and or members are in the social network which users and or members have a common interest with other users and or members in the social network which groups exist within the social network which users and or members belong to which groups within the social network and which users and or members are friends with which users and or members. The determination can also include other information such as how frequently users and or members log into and or use the social network what activities users and or members perform within the social network activities such as posting texting emailing uploading downloading viewing talking chatting transmitting storing etc. and what user profile information users and or members have.

Consider an example in which a social network includes one hundred thousand total members. These members are formed into hundreds or thousands of smaller groups. Members in the groups can have a common interest such as being friends being in a common professional organization being relatives of each other etc.

According to block a determination is made as to whether members in a group will form and or join a P2P storage network.

If the answer to this determination is no then flow proceeds to block . Per block members in the group are not added to a P2P storage network and or members in the group do not form a P2P storage network.

If the answer to this determination is yes then flow proceeds to block . Per block members in the group are added to a P2P storage network and or members in the group form a P2P storage network.

The determination to join or form a P2P storage network can be provided to and or answered by a user a member one or more members in the group a user agent an electronic device such as an HPED of the user a software program an owner and or operator of a social network website.

In an example embodiment the P2P storage network and the social network are two different networks. The social network is based on and or uses a client server architecture and the P2P storage network is based on and or uses a P2P architecture. Furthermore the two networks can be distinct from each other separate from each other and independent from each other. Further yet these networks can be owned and operated by two different companies or owned and operated by a same company.

Consider an example in which company A owns and operates a social network based on a client server architecture. This social network is web based and enables members to build social relations with other member over the Internet e.g. members can share one or more of ideas activities photos emails texts links news and interests etc. with other members . Company B owns and operates a P2P storage network based on a P2P architecture. This P2P network enables member computers or peers to act as a client and a server for other member computers or peers. The peers in this P2P network allocate storage to the P2P network and this storage is shared and or used among the peers. Company A and company B enter into an agreement wherein groups of members in the social network of company A can form groups in the P2P network of company B. This agreement facilitates the formation of groups in the P2P network since the group of members is already formed. Furthermore groups in the social network already have a commonality such as being friends relatives business associates etc. This commonality encourages the formation of groups in the P2P network since members in groups already know each other or already share a common interest i.e. the common interest that bonded the members together to form a group in the social network . This commonality or common interest can also alleviate trusts issues if certain members in the social network are hesitant to join a P2P network in which users store data for each other and or share computing resources with each other. Some users are more apt to join a P2P network with people that they already know such as people already in their group in the social network as opposed to people who are strangers and or people with whom the users do not have a common interest.

Consider an example in which a user joins a social network that is based on a client server architecture. After the user joins this social network the user becomes a member. The member and or the member s user agent are asked whether the member desires to join a P2P storage network as a peer. The member or user agent makes a decision as to whether to join the P2P storage network and responds to the request. Alternatively the member automatically becomes a member of the P2P storage network e.g. the act of joining the social network also causes the member to join the P2P storage network .

Consider an example in which a user is a member of the social network TWITTER. The user has a group of five hundreds friends. A request is sent to the user and each of the five hundred friends. This requests asks whether the user and the friends desire to form a P2P storage network that would include the five hundred friends. Other members of the social network could not join this group. Four hundred of the friends elect to form and join the P2P storage network. This P2P storage network includes the four hundred friends as peers. These peers then allocate bandwidth and memory to the P2P storage network and use the P2P storage network for consumption such as temporary storage permanent storage backup storage emergency storage etc. This newly formed P2P storage network functions as a P2P storage network with members or peers that are also friends in a group on TWITTER.

Consider an example in which a first member of the social network FACEBOOK sends a friend request to second member of the social network. The first member belongs to a P2P storage network named AlphaWon that includes friends of the first member on the social network. When the second member accepts the friend request of the first member the second member is asked whether the second member desires to join AlphaWon. If the second member agrees to join AlpahWon and accepts the friend request then the second member simultaneously becomes a friend of the first member and becomes a member of AlphaWon.

Consider another example in which a user is a member of a social network and belongs to a group within the social network. Members in the group form a group in a P2P storage network so the members can share and store data with each other as peers in the P2P storage network.

Example embodiments include P2P storage networks in which members or peers are strangers i.e. members or peers are unknown or unacquainted with each other .

Consider an example in which a social network has more than one hundred thousand members. The social network reviews the user profiles of the members and classifies the members that have a common interest. Based on this classification the social network forms groups of members that are compatible to be members together as peers in a P2P storage network. The social network can automatically form P2P groups with the members. Alternatively the social network can provide recommendations to the members for which P2P group the social network determined the member should belong. For instance based on a review of a first user profile a first member is provided with a recommendation to join P2P social network named AlphaOne based on a review of a second user profile a second member is provided with a recommendation to join P2P social network named BetaOne.

Example embodiments also include P2P storage networks in which members or peers know each other and or are acquainted with each other. For example such members or peers are friends on a social network belong to a common group on a social network are friends and or relatives of each other are business associates and or acquaintances belong to a common club or organization or association attended a common school such as graduated from a same university or attend class together in a school etc.

Example embodiments also include P2P storage networks in which members or peers share a common interest. These members or peers may or may know each other. Some examples of common interest include but are not limited to users that have commonality with regard to a school attended living in a city or state or country owning a make or model of an electronic device belonging to an organization or club or association working at a particular location and or for a particular employer demographic information such as age gender race ethnicity mobility home ownership marital status employment status disabilities income level etc. an affiliation such as religious political social etc. of the user and or other individual a membership and an occupation or hobby.

The selection of an individual to join the P2P storage group can be random. For example individuals are randomly selected to join a particular P2P storage group. Alternatively the selection of an individual to join the P2P storage group can be based on one or more factors or criteria. For example individuals are selected to join a particular P2P storage group if the individuals have a common interest with one or more members in the P2P storage group. Additionally one or more users in the P2P storage group selects an individual that is known such as selecting a friend a relative a business associate a co worker a person that is a member or friend in a social network etc. .

According to block credentials of the individual are evaluated for inclusion into the P2P storage group.

According to block a determination is made as to whether the selected individual can join the P2P storage group. If the answer to this determination is no then flow proceeds to block and the selected individual is denied entry into the P2P storage group. If the answer to this determination is yes then flow proceeds to block and the selected individual is allowed entry into the P2P storage group.

When the credentials satisfy one or more criteria and or requirements then the selected individual is extended an offer to join the P2P storage group and or is allowed to join the P2P storage group. The criteria can vary widely depending on what rules are provided to govern inclusion of the P2P storage group.

Consider an example in which the criteria for entry into the P2P storage group are as follows allow an individual to join the P2P storage group if the individual is related to a member or peer already in the group. For instance John is a member of the P2P storage group and John has a brother Paul. Paul s credential of being John s brother would satisfy the criteria of being related to an existing member of the P2P storage group. Thus Paul would be allowed to join the P2P storage group.

Consider an example in which the criteria for entry into the P2P storage group includes belonging to FACEBOOK and being a friend of a particular member named John. Other members of FACEBOOK that are also friends with John can join the P2P storage group to which John is a member. The friends of John form the P2P storage group and function as peers in the P2P storage network. Thus John shares P2P storage with friends on his FACEBOOK. Members of the social network not friends with John are denied entry into the P2P storage group.

Consider an example in which the criteria for entry into the P2P storage group include having a common interest with one or more existing members of the P2P storage group. For example a group of employees of Company A form a P2P storage group. Anyone that is an employee of Company A is eligible to join this P2P storage group.

The credentials of an individual for inclusion into a particular P2P storage group can be evaluated using other methods as well. Consider an example in which users or peers maintain a P2P storage resume. The storage resume of a user is evaluated in order to determine whether the user is an acceptable member for the P2P storage group. By way of example such resumes includes historic information regarding previous P2P transactions that the user or peer made. For instance storage resumes include one or more of information about previous P2P storage groups that the user belonged to and or participated in an amount of P2P storage the user consumed an amount of P2P storage the user allocated to peers a bandwidth the user provided to receive peer data and transmit data to peers an amount of time the user was online e.g. in communication with a network so as to transmit and or receive peer data a frequency or occurrence of P2P storage transactions a length of time as a member or peer of another P2P storage group a name of previous P2P storage group to which the user was a member whether the user violated contractual and or agreed terms and conditions in a previous P2P storage group whether the user previously consumed more peer memory than the user allocated to other peers how long the user stored data for the peers and whether the user paid any fees.

Consider an example in which a user belongs to a P2P storage group that desires to add more peers in order to increase storage capacity across the group. The group desires to add users that have a history of providing reliable P2P storage with an allocation of at least one terabyte. An HPED of a user of the P2P storage group contacts other electronic devices and or user agents and attempts to recruit new members to the P2P storage group. The HPED requests these other electronic devices and or user agents to provide the HPED with their P2P storage resume. The HPED reviews the resumes to determine whether the candidates satisfy the criteria of providing reliable P2P storage with an allocation of at least one terabyte. When the HPED discovers a candidate that satisfies these criteria the HPED provides the candidate with an offer to join the P2P storage group.

Consider an example in which a P2P storage group desires to add more reliable peers to the group. The P2P storage group evaluates P2P storage resumes of individuals that are candidates to be included in the group. Based on the evaluation of the storage resumes the individuals are recruited to join the P2P storage group. For instance individuals with a high ranking or with a good P2P storage history are extended an offer to join the P2P storage group.

Example embodiments include methods in which one or more users control which other individuals become members of the P2P storage groups. Such users can select the other individuals to become members and deny other individuals an opportunity to become members. Alternatively this control and or selection can be performed by an electronic device a user agent or a software program.

In order to evaluate a candidate for a P2P storage group the storage resume and or credentials of the candidate can be evaluated and ranked. A ranking system can be used to provide a score with regard to different categories and or with regard to other candidates. By way of example categories can include the historic information regarding previous P2P transactions discussed herein e.g. one category is an amount of P2P storage the user will consume one category is an amount of P2P storage the user will allocate one category is bandwidth the user will utilize to receive and transmit data one category is an amount of time the user will be online etc. . Each category can include a range of numbers that rank the user or give a score for the category such as 1 to 5 1 to 10 or 1 to 100 and candidates are scored in each category. The sums of the scores in each category are added together to determine a total score. The total scores for different candidates can be compared to evaluate and or compare candidates with respect to each other. A total score can also be compared to a scale to classify a candidate such as candidates with a total score of 90 100 are deemed excellent P2P storage peers candidates with a total score of 80 89 are deemed good P2P storage peers candidates with a total score of 70 79 are deemed average P2P storage peers candidates with a total score of 60 69 are deemed below average P2P storage peers candidates with a total score of 59 or less are deemed unacceptable P2P storage peers. .

A ranking of a candidate and or peer can also change over time. Consider an example in which a peer joins a P2P storage group and has a score of 82. While acting as a peer in this P2P storage group the user is an excellent member of the group e.g. the user continually remains online stores a large amount of peer data has a quick response time to storage requests reliably stores peer data etc. . After a period of time the user s score is re computed to a score of 93. The user s P2P storage resume is also updated to reflect the user s interactions with the P2P storage network. Additionally the user s score can be included in the resume.

A ranking system a scoring system a classification system resumes and or historic P2P storage interaction enable users to be evaluated for inclusion in P2P storage groups. P2P storage groups can have different criteria for membership. Some groups for example may desire users with a specific score ranking or a specific storage history. Another group for example may desire users with a specific attribute such as including users if they live in a certain geographical area own a particular make or model electronic device belong to a specific religious organization etc.

A ranking system a scoring system a classification system resumes and or historic P2P storage interaction can also be used to determine how peer storage is distributed within a P2P storage group.

According to block peers within a P2P storage group are ranked. This rank can be based on a ranking system a scoring system a classification system resumes and or historic P2P storage interaction. For example peers in the P2P storage network are ranked with respect to the how long a user remains online how much peer data the user consumes and stores how much bandwidth the user provides how reliably the user stores peer data how quickly the user s storage device responds to peer requests whether the user pays a storage fee etc.

According to block P2P storage within the P2P storage group is distributed to peers based on the ranking of the peers. The ranking of a peer for example can determine whose data is sent to the peer how much data the peer is allowed to store for the group how much data the group is allowed to store for the peer how long a peer maintains or stores data how much money the peer pays to be a member of the group how much money the peer receives to store other peer data what membership benefits the peer gets from the group etc.

The rankings can also be used to form groups within the P2P storage group. is a storage group in which peers distribute data among themselves based on their ranking within the group.

The storage group is a hierarchy that limits or restricts which groups share peer data with each other. For example peers or members in a group share and or store data with each other and not with peers or members in another group. For instance peers in the first group share data with each other peers in the second group share data with each other peers in the third group share data with each other. Alternatively the group rankings are used to prioritize how data is distributed. For example peers in the first group receive a higher priority for data requests than peers in the second group .

The storage group can include a single group that is divided into the plural subgroups. For example the storage group is formed of members that also form a group in a social network.

The rankings and data distribution restrictions in the storage group provide an incentive for members to be reliable storage hosts for other members. As a member continues to perform reliable storage the ranking of the member increases and the member moves up the hierarchy. For example if a member in the third group exhibits reliable peer storage over time then this member moves into the second group . This move is beneficial to the member since the second group is ranked higher than the third group and thus has better peers with whom to share data.

The subgroups are placed and ranked in the hierarchy based on an ability of peers within the subgroup to reliably conduct P2P storage transactions. A higher ranks signifies a subgroup with peers that exhibit more reliable storage transactions such as longer online times higher bandwidth allocations to storage requests shorter replies times to storage requests etc. Peers are placed in the subgroups based on analysis of their current and or previous P2P storage transactions.

In an example embodiment users can prohibit or blacklist peers from being able to store data on the user s electronic device. Consider an example in which users in a peer group believe that a member in the group stores malicious or inappropriate data. These users can blacklist this member from conducting storage or resource transactions with the users e.g. the member is blacklisted on the user s electronic devices such that these electronic devices do not accept any personal data that belongs to the member .

According to block a file and or information are designated for storage on a P2P storage network. For example a user selects a file on an HPED and designates this file to be stored on the P2P storage network. As another example as a file is downloaded from the internet the file is automatically designated for storage on the P2P storage network. As another example all files with a specified extension are automatically backed up on the P2P storage network.

According to block the file and or information are stored on the P2P storage network. The file and or information designated for peer storage is transferred or copied from the current storage device such as an HPED or an electronic device of a peer to one or more storage devices of other peers.

According to block the file and or information is identified as being stored on the P2P storage network.

Once a file and or information is stored on the P2P storage network this file and or information is identified so it can be recognized as a file stored on the P2P storage network. For example files stored on the P2P storage network can be visually identified and or distinguished from other files not stored on the P2P storage network. For instance files stored on the P2P storage network appear blue or green or another color that signifies them as being stored on the P2P storage network. As another example files stored on the P2P storage network are provided in a list stored in a specific folder given a certain name etc. As another example files stored on the P2P storage network are provided with an insignia or indicia to identify them as being stored on the P2P storage network such as placing a small check mark or other symbol next to or on the file.

Consider an example in which some pictures in a picture folder are backed up on a P2P storage network. Once a picture is copied to the P2P storage network the original picture in the picture folder is highlighted or marked to visually identify this picture as being one that is backed up on the P2P storage network. When a user opens the folder and sees the names of the pictures or the thumbnails of the pictures the user can readily see which pictures are backed up to the P2P storage network and which pictures are not backed up to the P2P storage network.

Different border colors can identify different networks. Consider an example in which a user belongs to three different P2P networks. Files stored to P2P network AlphaWon are colored with a blue border files stored to P2P network BetaWon are colored with a green border and files stored to P2P network GammaWon are colored with a yellow border. Thus the color identifies the file as being stored on a P2P network and identifies on which particular P2P network the file is stored.

Example embodiments include designating files stored on a P2P storage network as being public private or semi private. A file stored on the P2P storage network with a designation as being public is accessible to other members or peers of the P2P storage network. As such these members or peers can perform actions on the file such as viewing the file and copying the file. A file stored on the P2P storage network with a designation as being private is not accessible to other members or peers of the P2P storage network. Other members or peers would not be able to take action on the file such as view copy edit move etc. A file stored on the P2P storage network with a designation as being semi private is accessible to other members or peers but has restrictions. For example a semi private file can be viewed by some members and not other members can be viewed but not copied can be viewed but not downloaded etc.

Consider an example in which a user takes a picture with his HPED and the picture is automatically backed up from the HPED to a P2P storage network. The picture is designated as being semi private. This designate means that the picture can be viewed and copied by other users who are both peers in the P2P storage network and friends of the user in the user s social network FACEBOOK. When another user meets the requirements associated with the picture then the other user has access rights or privileges to the picture on the P2P storage network.

As noted management operations of the P2P storage network or group can be central such as from a server or provided with one or more peers. Consider an example in which a P2P storage group includes a storage map that identifies data stored in the P2P storage group such as identifying a name of each file a size a location a type and other metadata. Each member or peer in the P2P storage network includes a copy of the storage map. Alternatively one or more members or peers in the P2P storage group maintain a copy of the storage map such as a peer designated as a P2P manager . When a member or peer desires information from the storage map the member or peer sends a query request to the member maintaining the storage map.

The processor unit includes a processor such as a central processing unit CPU microprocessor application specific integrated circuit ASIC etc. for controlling the overall operation of memory such as random access memory RAM for temporary data storage read only memory ROM for permanent data storage and firmware . The processing unit communicates with memory and performs operations and tasks that implement one or more blocks of the flow diagrams discussed herein. The memory for example stores applications data programs algorithms including software to implement or assist in implementing example embodiments and other data.

The network interface provides a mechanism for the electrical device to communicate with other electrical devices computers or systems. For example the network interface enables the electrical device to transmit data through a wired or wireless connection to a network such as the Internet and or a cellular network.

Blocks and or methods discussed herein can be executed and or made by a user a user agent of a user a software application an electronic device a computer a computer system a P2P network or system and or an electronic manager. Furthermore blocks and or methods discussed herein can be performed without knowledge of the user and or without instruction from the user. Consider an example in which a user is without knowledge of when an action occurs but has provided instruction for the action. Consider an example in which the user has knowledge of an action but did not instruct the action. Consider an example in which a user agent of a user performs an action without the user having knowledge of the action and without the user providing the user agent with specific instruction to perform the action.

Determinations by a software application an electronic device and or the user agent can be modeled as a prediction that the user with take an action. For example an analysis of historic events personal information geographic location and or the user profile provides a probability and or likelihood that the user will take an action such as determining whether to enroll a user in P2P storage determining an amount of P2P storage for consumption and allocation determining which files to copy to P2P storage and determining how to execute blocks in methods discussed herein . By way of example one or more predictive models are used to predict the probability that a user would take determine or desire the action. The predictive models can use one or more classifiers to determine this probability. Example models and or classifiers include but are not limited to a Naive Bayes classifier including classifiers that apply Bayes theorem k nearest neighbor algorithm k NN including classifying objects based on a closeness to training examples in feature space statistics including the collection organization and analysis of data support vector machine SVM including supervised learning models that analyze data and recognize patterns in data data mining including discovery of patterns in datasets artificial intelligence including systems that use intelligent agents to perceive environments and take action based on the perceptions machine learning including systems that learn from data pattern recognition including classification regression sequence labeling speech tagging and parsing knowledge discovery including the creation and analysis of data from databases and unstructured data sources logistic regression including generation of predictions using continuous and or discrete variables group method of data handling GMDH including inductive algorithms that model multi parameter data and uplift modeling including analyzing and modeling changes in probability due to an action .

As used herein a client server is an architecture model in which a client computer and or program initiates requests over a network to a server computer and or program that responds to the requests. The client contacts the server to use a service and or resource that the server provides.

As used herein a common interest is an interest feature activity and or attribute that is shared by and or belongs to two or more people or entities.

As used herein the term information includes communication and or reception of knowledge and or intelligence and knowledge obtained from investigation study and or instruction. Information also includes data such as information in numerical form that can be digitally transmitted and or processed. Thus information includes raw data and unorganized facts that can be processed and also includes processed organized and structured such as data being processed and presented in a useful context.

As used herein peer to peer or P2P is a distributed computer architecture that partitions tasks among peers. Each electronic device or computer in the P2P network is a node in which a portion of its resources such as one or more of processing power storage and bandwidth are available to other peers or nodes in the network without a need for central coordination by servers or hosts. Peers or nodes in the network can be suppliers of resources consumers of resources and or suppliers and consumers of resources with the other peers.

As used herein a peer to peer network or P2P network is a computer network in which one or more computers in the network can act as a client and a server for other computers in the network. The network allows shared access to various resources such as files and peripherals without a need for a central server. By way of example computers in the network use a similar same or compatible software program to communicate with each other and to access files and resources stored on computers or peripherals of each other. P2P networks include embodiments in which the network does not include servers such as in a client server architecture but includes peers that function both or simultaneously as clients and servers to other peers in the network. P2P networks also include embodiments in which the network does include servers and clients such as in a client server architecture .

As used herein P2P storage is storage that is implemented over a P2P network or with a P2P architecture.

As used herein a social network is a social structure in which users communicate with each other over a network with electronic devices. The social network facilitates the building of social relations among users who share backgrounds familial relations business relations interests and or connections. The social network includes one or more of representations and or information about the users such as user profiles photos videos etc. and a platform such as a web based platform that allows the users to communicate with each other over one or more networks such as using email and or instant messages over the Internet and or share information with other users in the social network. The social network can be based on a client server architectures a P2P architecture or a combination of client server and P2P architectures.

As used herein a user agent is software that acts on behalf of a user. User agents include but are not limited to one or more of intelligent agents agents that use learning reasoning and or artificial intelligence multi agent systems plural agents that communicate with each other mobile agents agents that move execution to different processors autonomous agents agents that modify processes to achieve an objective and distributed agents agents that execute on physically distinct electronic devices .

As used herein a user profile is personal data that represents an identity of a specific person or organization. The user profile includes information pertaining to the characteristics and or preferences of the user. Examples of this information for a person include but are not limited to one or more of personal data of the user such as age gender race ethnicity religion hobbies interests income employment education etc. photographs such as photos of the user family friends and or colleagues videos such as videos of the user family friends and or colleagues and user specific data that defines the user s interaction with and or content on an electronic device such as display settings application settings network settings stored files downloads uploads browser activity software applications user interface or GUI activities and or privileges .

In some example embodiments the methods illustrated herein and data and instructions associated therewith are stored in respective storage devices which are implemented as computer readable and or machine readable storage media physical or tangible media and or non transitory storage media. These storage media include different forms of memory including semiconductor memory devices such as DRAM or SRAM Erasable and Programmable Read Only Memories EPROMs Electrically Erasable and Programmable Read Only Memories EEPROMs and flash memories magnetic disks such as fixed floppy and removable disks other magnetic media including tape optical media such as Compact Disks CDs or Digital Versatile Disks DVDs . Note that the instructions of the software discussed above can be provided on computer readable or machine readable storage medium or alternatively can be provided on multiple computer readable or machine readable storage media distributed in a large system having possibly plural nodes. Such computer readable or machine readable medium or media is are considered to be part of an article or article of manufacture . An article or article of manufacture can refer to any manufactured single component or multiple components.

Method blocks discussed herein can be automated and executed by a computer computer system user agent and or electronic device. The term automated means controlled operation of an apparatus system and or process using computers and or mechanical electrical devices without the necessity of human intervention observation effort and or decision.

The methods in accordance with example embodiments are provided as examples and examples from one method should not be construed to limit examples from another method. Further methods discussed within different figures can be added to or exchanged with methods in other figures. Further yet specific numerical data values such as specific quantities numbers categories etc. or other specific information should be interpreted as illustrative for discussing example embodiments. Such specific information is not provided to limit example embodiments.

