---

title: Negative allosteric modulators of metabotropic glutamate receptor 2
abstract: Described are negative allosteric modulators of metabotropic glutamate receptor 2 (mGlu), pharmaceutical compositions including the compounds, and methods of using the compounds and compositions for treating depression, anxiety, obsessive-compulsive disorder, cognitive disorders, Alzheimer's disease, or autism spectrum disorders in a subject.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09382208&OS=09382208&RS=09382208
owner: Vanderbilt University
number: 09382208
owner_city: Nashville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160126
---
This application is a non provisional of and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 107 821 filed Jan. 26 2015 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Grant number 5 U54 MH84659 06 awarded by the National Institute of Mental Health NIMH . The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present disclosure relates to compounds compositions and methods for treating metabotropic glutamate receptor 2 related diseases and or disorders such as depression anxiety obsessive compulsive disorder cognitive disorders Alzheimer s disease and autism spectrum disorders.

Metabotropic glutamate mGlu receptors a class of G protein coupled receptor GPCR family C have recently emerged as targets of potential therapeutic value. They bind glutamate an amino acid that is the most prominent excitatory neurotransmitter in the human central nervous system CNS . mGlus are known to activate biochemical cascades leading to the modification of other proteins. For example this can lead to changes in a synapse s excitability by presynaptic inhibition of neurotransmission or modulation and even induction of postsynaptic responses.

Metabotropic glutamate receptor 2 mGlu is one of eight mGlus that have been identified and along with mGlu is classified as a group II mGlu. Group II mGlus play an important role is synaptic plasticity which directly effects cognitive function including learning and memory among other things. The effects of group II mGlus occur primarily presynaptically via their inhibition of glutamate release. These effects can also be due to the inhibition of non vesicular glutamate release from glia. However group II receptors are known to also reduce the activity of postsynaptic potentials both excitatory and inhibitory in the cortex.

Dysfunction of mGluhas been implicated in many diseases and or disorders. Hence targeting mGluactivity has been the subject of much investigation. Several reports have highlighted its link to a variety of diseases such as depression anxiety obsessive compulsive disorder cognitive disorders Alzheimer s disease and autism spectrum disorders. Accordingly there exists a need for selective modulators of mGlu.

R R and Rare each independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy 

X Y and Z are each independently selected from a bond CRR O S NR C O O C O C O O O C O NR C O NR NR C O NR C O O NR C O NR NR SO and SO 

Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl C Chaloalkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle 

R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy 

wherein said aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl and heterocycle at each occurrence are independently substituted or unsubstituted.

Also disclosed are pharmaceutical compositions comprising the compounds methods of making the compounds and methods of using the compounds for treatment of metabotropic glutamate receptor 2 related diseases and or disorders.

Disclosed herein are negative allosteric modulators NAMs of mGlu. The modulators can have formula I . Compounds of formula I may exhibit selectivity for mGluover other mGlu receptors. Compounds of formula I can be used to treat or prevent diseases and disorders associated with mGluby modulating mGluactivity. mGluhas been implicated in a number of different diseases and disorders including but not limited to depression anxiety obsessive compulsive disorder cognitive disorders Alzheimer s disease and autism spectrum disorders.

Since the orthosteric binding sites of the mGlu isoforms are highly conserved very few selective modulators of the mGlus that bind at the orthosteric site have been identified. One strategy to selectively bind and modulate the mGlus includes identifying allosteric sites which may be amenable to modulation by a small molecule. In particular negative allosteric modulation of mGlucan result in inhibition of processes governed by mGluand provide therapeutic benefits for disorders caused by mGludysfunction.

Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. In case of conflict the present document including definitions will control. Preferred methods and materials are described below although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in practice or testing of the present invention. All publications patent applications patents and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The materials methods and examples disclosed herein are illustrative only and not intended to be limiting.

The terms comprise s include s having has can contain s and variants thereof as used herein are intended to be open ended transitional phrases terms or words that do not preclude the possibility of additional acts or structures. The singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The present disclosure also contemplates other embodiments comprising consisting of and consisting essentially of the embodiments or elements presented herein whether explicitly set forth or not.

The modifier about used in connection with a quantity is inclusive of the stated value and has the meaning dictated by the context for example it includes at least the degree of error associated with the measurement of the particular quantity . The modifier about should also be considered as disclosing the range defined by the absolute values of the two endpoints. For example the expression from about 2 to about 4 also discloses the range from 2 to 4. The term about may refer to plus or minus 10 of the indicated number. For example about 10 may indicate a range of 9 to 11 and about 1 may mean from 0.9 1.1. Other meanings of about may be apparent from the context such as rounding off so for example about 1 may also mean from 0.5 to 1.4.

Definitions of specific functional groups and chemical terms are described in more detail below. For purposes of this disclosure the chemical elements are identified in accordance with the Periodic Table of the Elements CAS version Handbook of Chemistry and Physics 75Ed. inside cover and specific functional groups are generally defined as described therein. Additionally general principles of organic chemistry as well as specific functional moieties and reactivity are described in Thomas Sorrell University Science Books Sausalito 1999 Smith and March 5Edition John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 2001 Larock VCH Publishers Inc. New York 1989 Carruthers 3Edition Cambridge University Press Cambridge 1987 the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference. The term alkoxy as used herein refers to an alkyl group as defined herein appended to the parent molecular moiety through an oxygen atom. Representative examples of alkoxy include but are not limited to methoxy ethoxy propoxy 2 propoxy butoxy and tert butoxy.

The term alkyl as used herein means a straight or branched saturated hydrocarbon chain containing from 1 to 10 carbon atoms. The term lower alkyl or C C alkyl means a straight or branched chain hydrocarbon containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms. The term C C alkyl means a straight or branched chain hydrocarbon containing from 1 to 3 carbon atoms. Representative examples of alkyl include but are not limited to methyl ethyl n propyl iso propyl n butyl sec butyl iso butyl tert butyl n pentyl isopentyl neopentyl n hexyl 3 methylhexyl 2 2 dimethylpentyl 2 3 dimethylpentyl n heptyl n octyl n nonyl and n decyl.

The term alkoxyalkyl as used herein refers to an alkoxy group as defined herein appended to the parent molecular moiety through an alkyl group as defined herein.

The term alkylene as used herein refers to a divalent group derived from a straight or branched chain hydrocarbon of 1 to 10 carbon atoms for example of 2 to 5 carbon atoms. Representative examples of alkylene include but are not limited to CHCH CHCHCH CHCHCHCH and CHCHCHCHCH .

The term aryl as used herein refers to a phenyl group or a bicyclic fused ring system. Bicyclic fused ring systems are exemplified by a phenyl group appended to the parent molecular moiety and fused to a cycloalkyl group as defined herein a phenyl group a heteroaryl group as defined herein or a heterocycle as defined herein. Representative examples of aryl include but are not limited to indolyl naphthyl phenyl quinolinyl and tetrahydroquinolinyl.

The term cycloalkyl as used herein refers to a carbocyclic ring system containing three to ten carbon atoms zero heteroatoms and zero double bonds. Representative examples of cycloalkyl include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl cyclononyl and cyclodecyl.

The term cycloalkenyl as used herein means a non aromatic monocyclic or multicyclic ring system containing at least one carbon carbon double bond and preferably having from 5 10 carbon atoms per ring. Exemplary monocyclic cycloalkenyl rings include cyclopentenyl cyclohexenyl or cycloheptenyl.

The term fluoroalkyl as used herein means an alkyl group as defined herein in which one two three four five six seven or eight hydrogen atoms are replaced by fluorine. Representative examples of fluoroalkyl include but are not limited to 2 fluoroethyl 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl trifluoromethyl difluoromethyl pentafluoroethyl and trifluoropropyl such as 3 3 3 trifluoropropyl.

The term alkoxyfluoroalkyl as used herein refers to an alkoxy group as defined herein appended to the parent molecular moiety through a fluoroalkyl group as defined herein.

The term fluoroalkoxy as used herein means at least one fluoroalkyl group as defined herein is appended to the parent molecular moiety through an oxygen atom. Representative examples of fluoroalkyloxy include but are not limited to difluoromethoxy trifluoromethoxy and 2 2 2 trifluoroethoxy.

The term haloalkyl as used herein means an alkyl group as defined herein in which one two three four five six seven or eight hydrogen atoms are replaced by a halogen.

The term haloalkoxy as used herein means at least one haloalkyl group as defined herein is appended to the parent molecular moiety through an oxygen atom.

The term heteroalkyl as used herein means an alkyl group as defined herein in which one or more of the carbon atoms has been replaced by a heteroatom selected from S O P and N. Representative examples of heteroalkyls include but are not limited to alkyl ethers secondary and tertiary alkyl amines amides and alkyl sulfides.

The term heteroaryl as used herein refers to an aromatic monocyclic ring or an aromatic bicyclic ring system. The aromatic monocyclic rings are five or six membered rings containing at least one heteroatom independently selected from the group consisting of N O and S e.g. 1 2 3 or 4 heteroatoms independently selected from O S and N . The five membered aromatic monocyclic rings have two double bonds and the six membered six membered aromatic monocyclic rings have three double bonds. The bicyclic heteroaryl groups are exemplified by a monocyclic heteroaryl ring appended to the parent molecular moiety and fused to a monocyclic cycloalkyl group as defined herein a monocyclic aryl group as defined herein a monocyclic heteroaryl group as defined herein or a monocyclic heterocycle as defined herein. Representative examples of heteroaryl include but are not limited to indolyl pyridinyl including pyridin 2 yl pyridin 3 yl pyridin 4 yl pyrimidinyl thiazolyl and quinolinyl.

The term heterocycle or heterocyclic as used herein means a monocyclic heterocycle a bicyclic heterocycle or a tricyclic heterocycle. The monocyclic heterocycle is a three four five six seven or eight membered ring containing at least one heteroatom independently selected from the group consisting of O N and S. The three or four membered ring contains zero or one double bond and one heteroatom selected from the group consisting of O N and S. The five membered ring contains zero or one double bond and one two or three heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of O N and S. The six membered ring contains zero one or two double bonds and one two or three heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of O N and S. The seven and eight membered rings contains zero one two or three double bonds and one two or three heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of O N and S. Representative examples of monocyclic heterocycles include but are not limited to azetidinyl azepanyl aziridinyl diazepanyl 1 3 dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl 1 3 dithiolanyl 1 3 dithianyl imidazolinyl imidazolidinyl isothiazolinyl isothiazolidinyl isoxazolinyl isoxazolidinyl morpholinyl oxadiazolinyl oxadiazolidinyl oxazolinyl oxazolidinyl oxetanyl piperazinyl piperidinyl pyranyl pyrazolinyl pyrazolidinyl pyrrolinyl pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydropyridinyl tetrahydrothienyl thiadiazolinyl thiadiazolidinyl 1 2 thiazinanyl 1 3 thiazinanyl thiazolinyl thiazolidinyl thiomorpholinyl 1 1 dioxidothiomorpholinyl thiomorpholine sulfone thiopyranyl and trithianyl. The bicyclic heterocycle is a monocyclic heterocycle fused to a phenyl group or a monocyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic cycloalkyl or a monocyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic cycloalkenyl or a monocyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic heterocycle or a spiro heterocycle group or a bridged monocyclic heterocycle ring system in which two non adjacent atoms of the ring are linked by an alkylene bridge of 1 2 3 or 4 carbon atoms or an alkenylene bridge of two three or four carbon atoms. Representative examples of bicyclic heterocycles include but are not limited to benzopyranyl benzothiopyranyl chromanyl 2 3 dihydrobenzofuranyl 2 3 dihydrobenzothienyl 2 3 dihydroisoquinoline 2 azaspiro 3.3 heptan 2 yl azabicyclo 2.2.1 heptyl including 2 azabicyclo 2.2.1 hept 2 yl 2 3 dihydro 1H indolyl isoindolinyl octahydrocyclopenta c pyrrolyl octahydropyrrolopyridinyl and tetrahydroisoquinolinyl. Tricyclic heterocycles are exemplified by a bicyclic heterocycle fused to a phenyl group or a bicyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic cycloalkyl or a bicyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic cycloalkenyl or a bicyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic heterocycle or a bicyclic heterocycle in which two non adjacent atoms of the bicyclic ring are linked by an alkylene bridge of 1 2 3 or 4 carbon atoms or an alkenylene bridge of two three or four carbon atoms. Examples of tricyclic heterocycles include but are not limited to octahydro 2 5 epoxypentalene hexahydro 2H 2 5 methanocyclopenta b furan hexahydro 1H 1 4 methanocyclopenta c furan aza adamantane 1 azatricyclo 3.3.1.1 decane and oxa adamantane 2 oxatricyclo 3.3.1.1 decane . The monocyclic bicyclic and tricyclic heterocycles are connected to the parent molecular moiety through any carbon atom or any nitrogen atom contained within the rings and can be unsubstituted or substituted.

In some instances the number of carbon atoms in a hydrocarbyl substituent e.g. alkyl or cycloalkyl is indicated by the prefix C C wherein x is the minimum and y is the maximum number of carbon atoms in the substituent. Thus for example C C alkyl refers to an alkyl substituent containing from 1 to 3 carbon atoms.

The term substituents refers to a group substituted on an aryl heteroaryl phenyl or pyridinyl group at any atom of that group. Any atom can be substituted.

The term substituted refers to a group that may be further substituted with one or more non hydrogen substituent groups. Substituent groups include but are not limited to halogen O S cyano nitro fluoroalkyl alkoxyfluoroalkyl fluoroalkoxy alkyl alkenyl alkynyl haloalkyl haloalkoxy heteroalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl aryl heteroaryl heterocycle cycloalkylalkyl heteroarylalkyl arylalkyl hydroxy hydroxyalkyl alkoxy alkoxyalkyl alkylene aryloxy phenoxy benzyloxy amino alkylamino acylamino aminoalkyl arylamino sulfonylamino sulfinylamino sulfonyl alkylsulfonyl arylsulfonyl aminosulfonyl sulfinyl COOH ketone amide carbamate and acyl.

For compounds described herein groups and substituents thereof may be selected in accordance with permitted valence of the atoms and the substituents such that the selections and substitutions result in a stable compound e.g. which does not spontaneously undergo transformation such as by rearrangement cyclization elimination etc.

For the recitation of numeric ranges herein each intervening number there between with the same degree of precision is explicitly contemplated. For example for the range of 6 9 the numbers 7 and 8 are contemplated in addition to 6 and 9 and for the range 6.0 7.0 the number 6.0 6.1 6.2 6.3 6.4 6.5 6.6 6.7 6.8 6.9 and 7.0 are explicitly contemplated.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl heteroaryl heterocycle or cycloalkyl R R and Rare each independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A q is 0 2 X Y and Z are each independently selected from a bond CRR O S NR C O O C O C O O O C O NR C O NR NR C O NR C O O NR C O NR NR SO and SO Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl C Chaloalkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONHor cyano wherein said aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl and heterocycle at each occurrence are each independently unsubstituted or substituted with 1 2 3 4 5 6 or 7 functional groups independently selected from the group consisting of halogen O S cyano nitro fluoroalkyl alkoxyfluoroalkyl fluoroalkoxy alkyl alkenyl alkynyl haloalkyl haloalkoxy heteroalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl aryl heteroaryl heterocycle cycloalkylalkyl heteroarylalkyl arylalkyl hydroxy hydroxyalkyl alkoxy alkoxyalkyl alkylene aryloxy phenoxy benzyloxy amino alkylamino acylamino aminoalkyl arylamino sulfonylamino sulfinylamino sulfonyl alkylsulfonyl arylsulfonyl aminosulfonyl sulfinyl COOH ketone amide carbamate and acyl.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl or heteroaryl substituted with 0 3 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro cyano C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl C Calkoxyalkyl cyclopropyl fluorocyclopropyl OR and NRR wherein Ris hydrogen C Calkyl or C Cfluoroalkyl and Rand Rare each independently hydrogen C Calkyl cyclopropyl cyclobutyl or C Cheteroalkyl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they are attach form a heterocycle wherein each Rand Rare substituted with 0 3 fluorine atoms.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl substituted with 0 2 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl C Calkoxyalkyl and OR wherein Ris hydrogen C Calkyl or C Cfluoroalkyl.

In certain embodiments Ris heteroaryl substituted with 0 2 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl and C Calkoxyalkyl. In certain embodiments Ris heteroaryl substituted with 0 1 substituents selected from C Calkyl. In certain embodiments Ris isothiazolyl substituted with 0 1 substituents selected from C Calkyl.

In certain embodiments Ris phenyl substituted with 0 2 substituents independently selected from fluoro and methoxy.

In certain embodiments Ris phenyl. In certain embodiments Ris pyridyl. In certain embodiments Ris isothiazolyl. In certain embodiments Ris thiazolyl. In certain embodiments Ris pyrazolyl. In certain embodiments Ris imidazolyl. In certain embodiments Ris pyrrolyl. In certain embodiments Ris thienyl. In certain embodiments Ris furanyl. In certain embodiments Ris benzofuranyl. In certain embodiments Ris benzothienyl. In certain embodiments Ris indolyl. In certain embodiments Ris naphthyl. In certain embodiments Ris quinolinyl. In certain embodiments Ris tetrahydroquinolinyl. In certain embodiments Ris pyrimidinyl. In certain embodiments Ris pyridazinyl. In certain embodiments Ris pyrazinyl. In certain embodiments Ris oxazolyl. In certain embodiments Ris isoxazolyl.

In certain embodiments R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro. In certain embodiments R R and Rare each hydrogen. In certain embodiments Rand Rare hydrogen and Ris fluoro. In certain embodiments Ris hydrogen and Rand Rare each independently hydrogen or fluoro.

In certain embodiments Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A wherein p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X is a bond CRR O or NR Y is a bond CRR O or NR Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle and A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle.

In certain embodiments Ris X CRR CRR N R R or X CRR CRR Y A wherein p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X is a bond CRR O or NR Y is a bond CRR O or NR Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl and A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle.

In certain embodiments Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R provided that when q 0 Z is not O S NR C O O O C O NR C O NR NR C O O or NR C O NR .

In certain embodiments Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R provided that when p 0 then Z and X do not form an O O N N O N or N O bond.

In certain embodiments Ris X CRR Z CRR Y A provided that when q 0 Z and Y do not form an O O N N O N or N O bond.

In certain embodiments Ris X CRR Z CRR Y A provided that when p 0 Z and X do not form an O O N N O N or N O bond.

In certain embodiments Ris A X CRR N R R provided that when p 0 X is not O S NR C O O O C O NR C O NR NR C O O or NR C O NR .

In certain embodiments Ris A X CRR Y A provided that when p 0 X and Y do not form an O O N N O N or N O bond.

In certain embodiments A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle. In certain embodiments A is cycloalkyl or heterocycle.

In certain embodiments A is a monocyclic heteroaryl. In certain embodiments A is a monocyclic heterocycle. In certain embodiments A is bicyclic heterocycle. In certain embodiments A is a monocyclic heterocycle fused to a phenyl group. In certain embodiments A is a monocyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic cycloalkenyl. In certain embodiments A is a monocyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic heterocycle. In certain embodiments A is a spiro heterocycle. In certain embodiments A is a bridged monocyclic heterocycle ring system. In certain embodiments A is a tricyclic heterocycle. In certain embodiments A is a bicyclic heterocycle fused to a phenyl group. In certain embodiments A is a bicyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic cycloalkyl. In certain embodiments A is a bicyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic cycloalkenyl. In certain embodiments A is a bicyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic heterocycle. In certain embodiments A is a bicyclic heterocycle in which two non adjacent atoms of the bicyclic ring are linked by an alkylene bridge. In certain embodiments A is an aromatic monocyclic ring. In certain embodiments A is an aromatic bicyclic ring system. In certain embodiments A is a cycloalkyl. In certain embodiments A is unsubstituted. In certain embodiments A is substituted with 1 2 3 4 5 6 or 7 functional groups independently selected from the group consisting of halogen O S cyano nitro fluoroalkyl alkoxyfluoroalkyl fluoroalkoxy alkyl alkenyl alkynyl haloalkyl haloalkoxy heteroalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl aryl heteroaryl heterocycle cycloalkylalkyl heteroarylalkyl arylalkyl hydroxy hydroxyalkyl alkoxy alkoxyalkyl alkylene aryloxy phenoxy benzyloxy amino alkylamino acylamino aminoalkyl arylamino sulfonylamino sulfinylamino sulfonyl alkylsulfonyl arylsulfonyl aminosulfonyl sulfinyl COOH ketone amide carbamate and acyl.

In certain embodiments A is a monocyclic heteroaryl. In certain embodiments A is a monocyclic heterocycle. In certain embodiments A is bicyclic heterocycle. In certain embodiments A is a monocyclic heterocycle fused to a phenyl group. In certain embodiments A is a monocyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic cycloalkenyl. In certain embodiments A is a monocyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic heterocycle. In certain embodiments A is a spiro heterocycle. In certain embodiments A is a bridged monocyclic heterocycle ring system. In certain embodiments A is a tricyclic heterocycle. In certain embodiments A is a bicyclic heterocycle fused to a phenyl group. In certain embodiments A is a bicyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic cycloalkyl. In certain embodiments A is a bicyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic cycloalkenyl. In certain embodiments A is a bicyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic heterocycle. In certain embodiments A is a bicyclic heterocycle in which two non adjacent atoms of the bicyclic ring are linked by an alkylene bridge. In certain embodiments A is an aromatic monocyclic ring. In certain embodiments A is an aromatic bicyclic ring system. In certain embodiments A is a cycloalkyl. In certain embodiments A is unsubstituted. In certain embodiments A is substituted with 1 2 3 4 5 6 or 7 functional groups independently selected from the group consisting of halogen O S cyano nitro fluoroalkyl alkoxyfluoroalkyl fluoroalkoxy alkyl alkenyl alkynyl haloalkyl haloalkoxy heteroalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl aryl heteroaryl heterocycle cycloalkylalkyl heteroarylalkyl arylalkyl hydroxy hydroxyalkyl alkoxy alkoxyalkyl alkylene aryloxy phenoxy benzyloxy amino alkylamino acylamino aminoalkyl arylamino sulfonylamino sulfinylamino sulfonyl alkylsulfonyl arylsulfonyl aminosulfonyl sulfinyl COOH ketone amide carbamate and acyl.

In certain embodiments Ris a monocyclic heteroaryl. In certain embodiments Ris a monocyclic heterocycle. In certain embodiments Ris bicyclic heterocycle. In certain embodiments Ris a monocyclic heterocycle fused to a phenyl group. In certain embodiments Ris a monocyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic cycloalkenyl. In certain embodiments Ris a monocyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic heterocycle. In certain embodiments Ris a spiro heterocycle. In certain embodiments Ris a bridged monocyclic heterocycle ring system. In certain embodiments Ris a tricyclic heterocycle. In certain embodiments Ris a bicyclic heterocycle fused to a phenyl group. In certain embodiments Ris a bicyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic cycloalkyl. In certain embodiments Ris a bicyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic cycloalkenyl. In certain embodiments Ris a bicyclic heterocycle fused to a monocyclic heterocycle. In certain embodiments Ris a bicyclic heterocycle in which two non adjacent atoms of the bicyclic ring are linked by an alkylene bridge. In certain embodiments Ris an aromatic monocyclic ring. In certain embodiments Ris an aromatic bicyclic ring system. In certain embodiments Ris unsubstituted. In certain embodiments Ris substituted with 1 7 functional groups independently selected from the group consisting of halogen O S cyano nitro fluoroalkyl alkoxyfluoroalkyl fluoroalkoxy alkyl alkenyl alkynyl haloalkyl haloalkoxy heteroalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl aryl heteroaryl heterocycle cycloalkylalkyl heteroarylalkyl arylalkyl hydroxy hydroxyalkyl alkoxy alkoxyalkyl alkylene aryloxy phenoxy benzyloxy amino alkylamino acylamino aminoalkyl arylamino sulfonylamino sulfinyl amino sulfonyl alkylsulfonyl arylsulfonyl aminosulfonyl sulfinyl COOH ketone amide carbamate and acyl.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl heteroaryl heterocycle or cycloalkyl R R and Rare each independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X Y and Z are each independently selected from a bond CRR O S NR C O O C O C O O O C O NR C O NR NR C O NR C O O NR C O NR NR SO and SO Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl C Chaloalkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl or heteroaryl R R and Rare each independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X Y and Z are each independently selected from a bond CRR O S NR C O O C O C O O O C O NR C O NR NR C O NR C O O NR C O NR NR SO and SO Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl C Chaloalkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl or heteroaryl substituted with 0 3 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro cyano C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl C Calkoxyalkyl cyclopropyl fluorocyclopropyl OR and NRR wherein Ris hydrogen C Calkyl or C Cfluoroalkyl and Rand Rare each independently hydrogen C Calkyl cyclopropyl cyclobutyl or C Cheteroalkyl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they are attach form a heterocycle wherein each Rand Rare substituted with 0 3 fluorine atoms R R and Rare each independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X Y and Z are each independently selected from a bond CRR O S NR C O O C O C O O O C O NR C O NR NR C O NR C O O NR C O NR NR SO and SO Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl C Chaloalkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl substituted with 0 2 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl C Calkoxyalkyl and OR wherein Ris hydrogen C Calkyl or C Cfluoroalkyl R R and Rare each independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X Y and Z are each independently selected from a bond CRR O S NR C O O C O C O O O C O NR C O NR NR C O NR C O O NR C O NR NR SO and SO Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl C Chaloalkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris heteroaryl substituted with 0 2 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl and C Calkoxyalkyl R R and Rare each independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X Y and Z are each independently selected from a bond CRR O S NR C O O C O C O O O C O NR C O NR NR C O NR C O O NR C O NR NR SO and SO Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl C Chaloalkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl heteroaryl heterocycle or cycloalkyl R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro Ris X CRR Z CRR N CRR X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X Y and Z are each independently selected from a bond CRR O S NR C O O C O C O O O C O NR C O NR NR C O NR C O O NR C O NR NR SO and SO Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl C Chaloalkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl or heteroaryl R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X Y and Z are each independently selected from a bond CRR O S NR C O O C O C O O O C O NR C O NR NR C O NR C O O NR C O NR NR SO and SO Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl C Chaloalkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl or heteroaryl substituted with 0 3 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro cyano C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl C Calkoxyalkyl cyclopropyl fluorocyclopropyl OR and NRR wherein Ris hydrogen C Calkyl or C Cfluoroalkyl and Rand Rare each independently hydrogen C Calkyl cyclopropyl cyclobutyl or C Cheteroalkyl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they are attach form a heterocycle wherein each Rand Rare substituted with 0 3 fluorine atoms R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X Y and Z are each independently selected from a bond CRR O S NR C O O C O C O O O C O NR C O NR NR C O NR C O O NR C O NR NR SO and SO Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl C Chaloalkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl substituted with 0 2 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl C Calkoxyalkyl and OR wherein Ris hydrogen C Calkyl or C Cfluoroalkyl R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X Y and Z are each independently selected from a bond CRR O S NR C O O C O C O O O C O NR C O NR NR C O NR C O O NR C O NR NR SO and SO Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl C Chaloalkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris heteroaryl substituted with 0 2 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl and C Calkoxyalkyl R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X Y and Z are each independently selected from a bond CRR O S NR C O O C O C O O O C O NR C O NR NR C O NR C O O NR C O NR NR SO and SO Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl C Chaloalkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONHor cyano.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl heteroaryl heterocycle or cycloalkyl R R and Rare each hydrogen Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X Y and Z are each independently selected from a bond CRR O S NR C O O C O C O O O C O NR C O NR NR C O NR C O O NR C O NR NR SO and SO Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl C Chaloalkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl or heteroaryl R R and Rare each hydrogen Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X Y and Z are each independently selected from a bond CRR O S NR C O O C O C O O O C O NR C O NR NR C O NR C O O NR C O NR NR SO and SO Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl C Chaloalkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl or heteroaryl substituted with 0 3 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro cyano C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl C Calkoxyalkyl cyclopropyl fluorocyclopropyl OR and NRR wherein Ris hydrogen C Calkyl or C Cfluoroalkyl and Rand Rare each independently hydrogen C Calkyl cyclopropyl cyclobutyl or C Cheteroalkyl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they are attach form a heterocycle wherein each Rand Rare substituted with 0 3 fluorine atoms R R and Rare each hydrogen Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X Y and Z are each independently selected from a bond CRR O S NR C O O C O C O O O C O NR C O NR NR C O NR C O O NR C O NR NR SO and SO Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl C Chaloalkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl substituted with 0 2 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl C Calkoxyalkyl and OR wherein Ris hydrogen C Calkyl or C Cfluoroalkyl R R and Rare each hydrogen Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X Y and Z are each independently selected from a bond CRR O S NR C O O C O C O O O C O NR C O NR NR C O NR C O O NR C O NR NR SO and SO Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl C Chaloalkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris heteroaryl substituted with 0 2 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl and C Calkoxyalkyl R R and Rare each hydrogen Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X Y and Z are each independently selected from a bond CRR O S NR C O O C O C O O O C O NR C O NR NR C O NR C O O NR C O NR NR SO and SO Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl C Chaloalkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl heteroaryl heterocycle or cycloalkyl R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A wherein p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X is a bond CRR O or NR Y is a bond CRR O or NR Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl or heteroaryl R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A wherein p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X is a bond CRR O or NR Y is a bond CRR O or NR Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl or heteroaryl substituted with 0 3 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro cyano C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl C Calkoxyalkyl cyclopropyl fluorocyclopropyl OR and NRR wherein Ris hydrogen C Calkyl or C Cfluoroalkyl and Rand Rare each independently hydrogen C Calkyl cyclopropyl cyclobutyl or C Cheteroalkyl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they are attach form a heterocycle wherein each Rand Rare substituted with 0 3 fluorine atoms R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A wherein p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X is a bond CRR O or NR Y is a bond CRR O or NR Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl substituted with 0 2 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl C Calkoxyalkyl and OR wherein Ris hydrogen C Calkyl or C Cfluoroalkyl R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A wherein p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X is a bond CRR O or NR Y is a bond CRR or NR Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris heteroaryl substituted with 0 2 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl and C Calkoxyalkyl R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A wherein p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X is a bond CRR O or NR Y is a bond CRR0 or NR Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl heteroaryl heterocycle or cycloalkyl R R and Rare each hydrogen Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A wherein p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X is a bond CRR O or NR Y is a bond CRR O or NR Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl or heteroaryl R R and Rare each hydrogen Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A wherein p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X is a bond CRR O or NR Y is a bond CRR O or NR Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl or heteroaryl substituted with 0 3 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro cyano C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl C Calkoxyalkyl cyclopropyl fluorocyclopropyl OR and NRR wherein Ris hydrogen C Calkyl or C Cfluoroalkyl and Rand Rare each independently hydrogen C Calkyl cyclopropyl cyclobutyl or C Cheteroalkyl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they are attach form a heterocycle wherein each Rand Rare substituted with 0 3 fluorine atoms R R and Rare each hydrogen Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A wherein p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X is a bond CRR O or NR Y is a bond CRR O or NR Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl substituted with 0 2 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl C Calkoxyalkyl and OR wherein Ris hydrogen C Calkyl or C Cfluoroalkyl R R and Rare each hydrogen Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A wherein p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X is a bond CRR O or NR Y is a bond CRR O or NR Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris heteroaryl substituted with 0 2 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl and C Calkoxyalkyl R R and Rare each hydrogen Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A wherein p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X is a bond CRR O or NR Y is a bond CRR O or NR Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl heteroaryl heterocycle or cycloalkyl R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A wherein p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X is a bond CRR O or NR Y is a bond CRR O or NR Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl or heteroaryl R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A wherein p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X is a bond CRR O or NR Y is a bond CRR O or NR Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl or heteroaryl substituted with 0 3 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro cyano C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl C Calkoxyalkyl cyclopropyl fluorocyclopropyl OR and NRR wherein Ris hydrogen C Calkyl or C Cfluoroalkyl and Rand Rare each independently hydrogen C Calkyl cyclopropyl cyclobutyl or C Cheteroalkyl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they are attach form a heterocycle wherein each Rand Rare substituted with 0 3 fluorine atoms R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A wherein p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X is a bond CRR O or NR Y is a bond CRR0 or NR Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl substituted with 0 2 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl C Calkoxyalkyl and OR wherein Ris hydrogen C Calkyl or C Cfluoroalkyl R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A wherein p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X is a bond CRR O or NR Y is a bond CRR or NR Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris heteroaryl substituted with 0 2 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl and C Calkoxyalkyl R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A wherein p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X is a bond CRR O or NR Y is a bond CRR0 or NR Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl heteroaryl heterocycle or cycloalkyl R R and Rare each hydrogen Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A wherein p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X is a bond CRR O or NR Y is a bond CRR O or NR Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl or heteroaryl R R and Rare each hydrogen Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A wherein p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X is a bond CRR O or NR Y is a bond CRR O or NR Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl or heteroaryl substituted with 0 3 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro cyano C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl C Calkoxyalkyl cyclopropyl fluorocyclopropyl OR and NRR wherein Ris hydrogen C Calkyl or C Cfluoroalkyl and Rand Rare each independently hydrogen C Calkyl cyclopropyl cyclobutyl or C Cheteroalkyl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they are attach form a heterocycle wherein each Rand Rare substituted with 0 3 fluorine atoms R R and Rare each hydrogen Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A wherein p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X is a bond CRR O or NR Y is a bond CRR O or NR Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl substituted with 0 2 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl C Calkoxyalkyl and OR wherein Ris hydrogen C Calkyl or C Cfluoroalkyl R R and Rare each hydrogen Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A wherein p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X is a bond CRR O or NR Y is a bond CRR O or NR Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris heteroaryl substituted with 0 2 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl and C Calkoxyalkyl R R and Rare each hydrogen Ris X CRR Z CRR N R R X CRR Z CRR Y A A X CRR N R R or A X CRR Y A wherein p is 0 2 q is 0 2 X is a bond CRR O or NR Y is a bond CRR O or NR Rand Rare each independently selected from C Calkyl cycloalkyl C Cheteroalkyl and heterocycle or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they attach form a heterocycle R R R R Rand R at each occurrence are independently selected from hydrogen halogen C Calkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkyl and C Chaloalkoxy Rat each occurrence is independently selected from hydrogen C Calkyl and C Chaloalkyl A is aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycle A is cycloalkyl or heterocycle and Ris CONH.

In certain embodiments Ris aryl heteroaryl heterocycle or cycloalkyl R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro Ris

In certain embodiments Ris aryl or heteroaryl R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro Ris

In certain embodiments Ris aryl or heteroaryl substituted with 0 3 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro cyano C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl C Calkoxyalkyl cyclopropyl fluorocyclopropyl OR and NRR wherein Ris hydrogen C Calkyl or C Cfluoroalkyl and Rand Rare each independently hydrogen C Calkyl cyclopropyl cyclobutyl or C Cheteroalkyl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they are attach form a heterocycle wherein each Rand Rare substituted with 0 3 fluorine atoms R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro Ris

In certain embodiments Ris aryl substituted with 0 2 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl C Calkoxyalkyl and OR wherein Ris hydrogen C Calkyl or C Cfluoroalkyl R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro Ris

In certain embodiments Ris heteroaryl substituted with 0 2 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl and C Calkoxyalkyl R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro Ris

In certain embodiments Ris aryl or heteroaryl substituted with 0 3 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro cyano C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl C Calkoxyalkyl cyclopropyl fluorocyclopropyl OR and NRR wherein Ris hydrogen C Calkyl or C Cfluoroalkyl and Rand Rare each independently hydrogen C Calkyl cyclopropyl cyclobutyl or C Cheteroalkyl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they are attach form a heterocycle wherein each Rand Rare substituted with 0 3 fluorine atoms R R and Rare each hydrogen Ris

In certain embodiments Ris aryl substituted with 0 2 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl C Calkoxyalkyl and OR wherein Ris hydrogen C Calkyl or C Cfluoroalkyl R R and Rare each hydrogen Ris

In certain embodiments Ris heteroaryl substituted with 0 2 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl and C Calkoxyalkyl R R and Rare each hydrogen Ris

In certain embodiments Ris aryl heteroaryl heterocycle or cycloalkyl R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro Ris

In certain embodiments Ris aryl or heteroaryl R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro Ris

In certain embodiments Ris aryl or heteroaryl substituted with 0 3 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro cyano C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl C Calkoxyalkyl cyclopropyl fluorocyclopropyl OR and NRR wherein Ris hydrogen C Calkyl or C Cfluoroalkyl and Rand Rare each independently hydrogen C Calkyl cyclopropyl cyclobutyl or C Cheteroalkyl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they are attach form a heterocycle wherein each Rand Rare substituted with 0 3 fluorine atoms R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro Ris

In certain embodiments Ris aryl substituted with 0 2 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl C Calkoxyalkyl and OR wherein Ris hydrogen C Calkyl or C Cfluoroalkyl R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro Ris

In certain embodiments Ris heteroaryl substituted with 0 2 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl and C Calkoxyalkyl R R and Rare each independently hydrogen fluoro or chloro Ris

In certain embodiments Ris aryl or heteroaryl substituted with 0 3 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro cyano C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl C Calkoxyalkyl cyclopropyl fluorocyclopropyl OR and NRR wherein Ris hydrogen C Calkyl or C Cfluoroalkyl and Rand Rare each independently hydrogen C Calkyl cyclopropyl cyclobutyl or C Cheteroalkyl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen atom to which they are attach form a heterocycle wherein each Rand Rare substituted with 0 3 fluorine atoms R R and Rare each hydrogen Ris

In certain embodiments Ris aryl substituted with 0 2 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl C Calkoxyalkyl and OR wherein Ris hydrogen C Calkyl or C Cfluoroalkyl R R and Rare each hydrogen R3 is

In certain embodiments Ris heteroaryl substituted with 0 2 substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl and C Calkoxyalkyl R R and Rare each hydrogen Ris

In certain embodiments Ris phenyl substituted with 0 2 substituents independently selected from fluoro and methoxy Ris hydrogen Rand Rare each independently hydrogen or fluoro Ris

In certain embodiments Ris heteroaryl substituted with 0 1 substituents independently selected from C Calkyl Ris hydrogen Rand Rare each independently hydrogen or fluoro Ris

The compound may exist as a stereoisomer wherein asymmetric or chiral centers are present. The stereoisomer is R or S depending on the configuration of substituents around the chiral carbon atom. The terms R and S used herein are configurations as defined in IUPAC 1974 Recommendations for Section E Fundamental Stereochemistry in Pure Appl. Chem. 1976 45 13 30. The disclosure contemplates various stereoisomers and mixtures thereof and these are specifically included within the scope of this invention. Stereoisomers include enantiomers and diastereomers and mixtures of enantiomers or diastereomers. Individual stereoisomers of the compounds may be prepared synthetically from commercially available starting materials which contain asymmetric or chiral centers or by preparation of racemic mixtures followed by methods of resolution well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. These methods of resolution are exemplified by 1 attachment of a mixture of enantiomers to a chiral auxiliary separation of the resulting mixture of diastereomers by recrystallization or chromatography and optional liberation of the optically pure product from the auxiliary as described in Furniss Hannaford Smith and Tatchell Vogel s Textbook of Practical Organic Chemistry 5th edition 1989 Longman Scientific Technical Essex CM20 2JE England or 2 direct separation of the mixture of optical enantiomers on chiral chromatographic columns or 3 fractional recrystallization methods.

It should be understood that the compound may possess tautomeric forms as well as geometric isomers and that these also constitute an aspect of the invention.

The present disclosure also includes an isotopically labeled compound which is identical to those recited in formula I but for the fact that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number usually found in nature. Examples of isotopes suitable for inclusion in the compounds of the invention are hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorus sulfur fluorine and chlorine such as but not limited to H H C C N O O P P S F and Cl respectively. Substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium i.e. H can afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability for example increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements and hence may be preferred in some circumstances. The compound may incorporate positron emitting isotopes for medical imaging and positron emitting tomography PET studies for determining the distribution of receptors. Suitable positron emitting isotopes that can be incorporated in compounds of formula I are C N O and F. Isotopically labeled compounds of formula I can generally be prepared by conventional techniques known to those skilled in the art or by processes analogous to those described in the accompanying Examples using appropriate isotopically labeled reagent in place of non isotopically labeled reagent.

The disclosed compounds may act or function as non competitive antagonists allosteric inhibitors allosteric antagonists or negative allosteric modulators NAM of mGlu. The compounds may be procognitive and neuroprotective even in the presence of mGludysfunction.

Compounds of formula I can inhibit mGluwith an ICranging from about 1 nM to about 30 M. The compounds may have an ICof about 30 M about 29 M about 28 M about 27 M about 26 M about 25 M about 24 M about 23 M about 22 M about 21 M about 20 M about 19 M about 18 M about 17 M about 16 M about 15 M about 14 M about 13 M about 12 M about 11 M about 10 M about 9 M about 8 M about 7 M about 6 M about 5 M about 4 M about 3 M about 2 M about 1 M about 950 nM about 900 nM about 850 nM about 800 nM about 850 nM about 800 nM about 750 nM about 700 nM about 650 nM about 600 nM about 550 nM about 500 nM about 450 nM about 400 nM about 350 nM about 300 nM about 250 nM about 200 nM about 150 nM about 100 nM about 50 nM about 10 nM about 5 nM or about 1 nM. Compounds of formula I can inhibit mGluwith an IC50 of less than 30 M less than 29 M less than 28 M less than 27 M less than 26 M less than 25 M less than 24 M less than 23 M less than 22 M less than 21 M less than 20 M less than 19 M less than 18 M less than 17 M less than 16 M less than 15 M less than 14 M less than 13 M less than 12 M less than 11 M less than 10 M less than 9 M less than 8 M less than 7 M less than 6 M less than 5 M less than 4 M less than 3 M less than 2 M less than 1 M less than 950 nM less than 900 nM less than 850 nM less than 800 nM less than 850 nM less than 800 nM less than 750 nM less than 700 nM less than 650 nM less than 600 nM less than 550 nM less than 500 nM less than 450 nM less than 400 nM less than 350 nM less than 300 nM less than 250 nM less than 200 nM less than 150 nM less than 100 nM less than 50 nM less than 10 nM less than 5 nM or less than 1 nM.

Compounds of formula I may be selective modulators of mGluover mGlu. The compounds may have a ratio of mGluICto mGluECof at least 100 at least 95 at least 90 at least 85 at least 80 at least 75 at least 70 at least 64 at least 60 at least 55 at least 50 at least 45 at least 40 at least 35 at least 33 at least 31 at least 30 at least 29 at least 28 at least 27 at least 26 at least 25 at least 24 at least 23 at least 22 at least 21 at least 20 at least 19 at least 18 at least 17 at least 16 at least 15 at least 14 at least 13 at least 12 at least 11 at least 10 at least 9 at least 8 at least 7 at least 6 at least 5 at least 4 at least 3 or at least 2. Compounds of formula I may have a ratio of mGluICto mGluECof about 100 about 95 about 90 about 85 about 80 about 75 about 70 about 64 about 60 about 55 about 50 about 45 about 40 about 35 about 33 about 31 about 30 about 29 about 28 about 27 about 26 about 25 about 24 about 23 about 22 about 21 about 20 about 19 about 18 about 17 about 16 about 15 about 14 about 13 about 12 about 11 about 10 about 9 about 8 about 7 about 6 about 5 about 4 about 3 or about 2.

Compounds of formula I may be selective modulators of mGluover mGlu. The compounds may have a ratio of mGluICto mGluECof at least 100 at least 95 at least 90 at least 85 at least 80 at least 75 at least 70 at least 64 at least 60 at least 55 at least 50 at least 45 at least 40 at least 35 at least 33 at least 31 at least 30 at least 29 at least 28 at least 27 at least 26 at least 25 at least 24 at least 23 at least 22 at least 21 at least 20 at least 19 at least 18 at least 17 at least 16 at least 15 at least 14 at least 13 at least 12 at least 11 at least 10 at least 9 at least 8 at least 7 at least 6 at least 5 at least 4 at least 3 or at least 2. Compounds of formula I may have a ratio of mGluICto mGluECof about 100 about 95 about 90 about 85 about 80 about 75 about 70 about 64 about 60 about 55 about 50 about 45 about 40 about 35 about 33 about 31 about 30 about 29 about 28 about 27 about 26 about 25 about 24 about 23 about 22 about 21 about 20 about 19 about 18 about 17 about 16 about 15 about 14 about 13 about 12 about 11 about 10 about 9 about 8 about 7 about 6 about 5 about 4 about 3 or about 2.

The disclosed compounds may exist as pharmaceutically acceptable salts. The term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to salts or zwitterions of the compounds which are water or oil soluble or dispersible suitable for treatment of disorders without undue toxicity irritation and allergic response commensurate with a reasonable benefit risk ratio and effective for their intended use. The salts may be prepared during the final isolation and purification of the compounds or separately by reacting an amino group of the compounds with a suitable acid. For example a compound may be dissolved in a suitable solvent such as but not limited to methanol and water and treated with at least one equivalent of an acid like hydrochloric acid. The resulting salt may precipitate out and be isolated by filtration and dried under reduced pressure. Alternatively the solvent and excess acid may be removed under reduced pressure to provide a salt. Representative salts include acetate adipate alginate citrate aspartate benzoate benzenesulfonate bisulfate butyrate camphorate camphorsulfonate digluconate glycerophosphate hemisulfate heptanoate hexanoate formate isethionate fumarate lactate maleate methanesulfonate naphthylenesulfonate nicotinate oxalate pamoate pectinate persulfate 3 phenylpropionate picrate oxalate maleate pivalate propionate succinate tartrate thrichloroacetate trifluoroacetate glutamate para toluenesulfonate undecanoate hydrochloric hydrobromic sulfuric phosphoric and the like. The amino groups of the compounds may also be quaternized with alkyl chlorides bromides and iodides such as methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl lauryl myristyl stearyl and the like.

Basic addition salts may be prepared during the final isolation and purification of the disclosed compounds by reaction of a carboxyl group with a suitable base such as the hydroxide carbonate or bicarbonate of a metal cation such as lithium sodium potassium calcium magnesium or aluminum or an organic primary secondary or tertiary amine. Quaternary amine salts can be prepared such as those derived from methylamine dimethylamine trimethylamine triethylamine diethylamine ethylamine tributylamine pyridine N N dimethylaniline N methylpiperidine N methylmorpholine dicyclohexylamine procaine dibenzylamine N N dibenzylphenethylamine 1 ephenamine and N N dibenzylethylenediamine ethylenediamine ethanolamine diethanolamine piperidine piperazine and the like.

Compounds of formula I may be prepared by synthetic processes or by metabolic processes. Preparation of the compounds by metabolic processes includes those occurring in the human or animal body in vivo or processes occurring in vitro.

Compounds of formula I wherein the groups R R R R R and Rhave the meanings as set forth in the Summary of the Invention section unless otherwise noted can be synthesized as shown in Schemes 1 18.

Abbreviations which have been used in the descriptions of the Schemes that follow are DBAD for di tert butylazodicarboxylate BuLi for butyllithium dba for dibenzylideneacetone DIEA for diisopropylethylamine DME for dimethoxyethane DMF for dimethylformamide dppf for 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene EDC for N 3 dimethylaminopropyl N ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride HATU for N dimethylamino 1H 1 2 3 triazolo 4 5 b pyridin 1 ylmethylene N methylmethanaminium hexafluorophosphate N oxide HOBt for 1 hydroxybenzotriazole MeCO for acetone MeOH for methanol NEtfor triethylamine n PrOH for n propanol PhMe for toluene tBuXPhos for 2 di tert butylphosphino 2 4 6 triisopropylbiphenyl THF for tetrahydrofuran XantPhos for 4 5 bis diphenylphosphino 9 9 dimethylxanthene.

As shown in Scheme 1 intermediate v wherein each Ris as defined in the Summary of the Invention can be prepared from substituted benzoyl chloride i. Treatment of 3 ethoxy 3 oxopropanoic acid ii with butyllithium followed by addition of i can result in formation of ketoester iii. ketoester iii can be treated with DMF DMA iv followed by addition of RNH wherein Ris as defined in the Summary of the Invention to provide intermediate v.

Scheme 2 illustrates the conversion of intermediate v to intermediate vi. Intermediate v can be treated with a solution of ammonia in methanol with heating to give intermediate vi.

Scheme 3 illustrates the preparation of intermediate x from intermediate v and the preparation of intermediate xi from intermediate vi. Bromides v and vi may be converted to alkenes viii and ix respectively via a palladium catalyzed coupling reaction with potassium vinyltrifluoroborate vii wherein Ris as defined in the Summary of the Invention. Treatment of intermediates viii and ix with osmium tetroxide and 4 methylmorpholine N oxide NMO can form the corresponding diols which can be reacted in situ with sodium meta periodate to afford intermediates x and xi respectively.

Scheme 4 illustrates the conversion of intermediate x to intermediate xiv. Intermediate x can be treated with an amine xii wherein Rand Rare as defined in the Summary of the Invention and a reagent xiii wherein M is a group that renders Rnucleophilic wherein Ris as defined in the Summary of the Invention to provide intermediate xiv.

Scheme 5 illustrates the conversion of intermediate x to intermediate xv. Intermediate x can be treated with a reagent xiii wherein M is a group that renders Rnucleophilic wherein Ris as defined in the Summary of the Invention to provide intermediate xv.

Scheme 6 illustrates the conversion of intermediate v to intermediate xvii. Intermediate v can be converted to intermediate xvi via a palladium catalyzed hydroxylation. Intermediate xvi can be treated with acid in methanol with heating to afford intermediate xvii.

Scheme 7 illustrates the preparation of intermediate xx from intermediate xvii and the preparation of intermediate xxi from intermediate xvii. Intermediate xvii can be reacted in a Mitsunobu reaction with alcohols xviii and xix wherein R R R R R R Z p q Y and A are as defined in the Summary of the Invention to produce intermediates xx and xxi respectively.

Scheme 8 illustrates the synthesis of intermediate xxiii from intermediate xv. Intermediate xv can be reacted in a Mitsunobu reaction with alcohol xxii wherein A is as defined in the Summary of the Invention to produce intermediate xxiii respectively.

Scheme 9 illustrates the preparation of intermediate xxviii from intermediate v the preparation of intermediate xxix from intermediate v the preparation of intermediate xxx from intermediate v and the preparation of intermediate xxxi from intermediate v. Intermediate v may be reacted with amines xxiv xxv xxvi and xxvii wherein R R R R R R Z p q Y and A are as defined in the Summary of the Invention in a Buchwald Hartwig palladium catalyzed coupling to produce intermediates xxviii xxix xxx and xxxi respectively.

Scheme 10 illustrates the synthesis of intermediate xxxiv from intermediate v and the preparation of intermediate xxxv from intermediate v. Intermediate v can be reacted with alkynes xxxii and xxxiii wherein R R R R R R Z q Y and A are as defined in the Summary of the Invention and wherein p is 0 or 1 in a Sonogashira coupling to provide intermediates xxxiv and xxxv respectively.

Scheme 11 illustrates the conversion of intermediate v to intermediate xxxviii. Reaction of intermediate v with ethynyltrimethylsilane in a Sonogashira coupling can provide intermediate xxxvi. Treatment of intermediate xxxvi with tetrabutylammonium fluoride can yield intermediate xxxvii. Coupling of intermediate xxxvii with A X wherein A is as defined in the Summary of the Invention and wherein X is chloride bromide iodide or trifluoromethanesulfonate under Sonogashira conditions can afford intermediate xxxviii.

Scheme 12 illustrates the synthesis of intermediate xxxix from intermediate xxxiv the preparation of intermediate xl from intermediate xxxv and the preparation of intermediate xli from intermediate xxxviii. Intermediates xxxiv xxxv and xxxviii can be reduced via a palladium catalyzed hydrogenation to afford intermediates xxxix xl and xli respectively.

As illustrated in Scheme 13 the compound of formula I can be prepared from intermediate xlii. Treatment of intermediate xlii wherein Ris as defined in the Summary of the invention with ammonia in methanol with heating can provide the compound of formula I .

Alternatively the compound of formula I can be prepared from intermediate xlii as illustrated in Scheme 14 by a two step process. Hydrolysis of intermediate xlii wherein Ris as defined in the Summary of the invention with aqueous hydroxide can provide intermediate acid xliii. Intermediate xliii can be converted to the compound of formula I using ammonium chloride and a suitable coupling reagent.

As illustrated in Scheme 15 the compound of formula I can also be prepared from intermediate vi. Reaction of intermediate vi with alcohols such as xviii and xix wherein R R R R R R Z q Y and A are as defined in the Summary of the Invention in an Ullmann coupling can afford the compound of formula I .

Alternatively as illustrated in Scheme 16 the compound of formula I can be prepared from intermediate vi. Intermediate vi can be reacted in a palladium catalyzed Suzuki coupling reaction with reagents such as xliv or xlv wherein Ris as defined in the Summary of the invention to yield the compound of formula I .

As illustrated in Scheme 17 the compound of formula I can also be prepared from intermediate ix. Intermediate ix can be treated with an amine xii wherein Rand Rare as defined in the Summary of the Invention and a reagent xiii wherein M is a group that renders Rnucleophilic wherein Ris as defined in the Summary of the Invention to provide the compound of formula I .

As illustrated in Scheme 18 the compound of formula I wherein Ris cyano can be prepared from intermediate vi. The primary amide of vi can be dehydrated through treatment with an appropriate reagent such as cyanuric chloride to afford intermediate xlvi. Conversion of intermediate xlvi into the compound of formula I can be accomplished using methods analogous to those described in Schemes 3 12 and Schemes 15 17.

The compounds and intermediates may be isolated and purified by methods well known to those skilled in the art of organic synthesis. Examples of conventional methods for isolating and purifying compounds can include but are not limited to chromatography on solid supports such as silica gel alumina or silica derivatized with alkylsilane groups by recrystallization at high or low temperature with an optional pretreatment with activated carbon thin layer chromatography distillation at various pressures sublimation under vacuum and trituration as described for instance in Vogel s Textbook of Practical Organic Chemistry 5th edition 1989 by Furniss Hannaford Smith and Tatchell pub. Longman Scientific Technical Essex CM20 2JE England.

A disclosed compound may have at least one basic nitrogen whereby the compound can be treated with an acid to form a desired salt. For example a compound may be reacted with an acid at or above room temperature to provide the desired salt which is deposited and collected by filtration after cooling. Examples of acids suitable for the reaction include but are not limited to tartaric acid lactic acid succinic acid as well as mandelic atrolactic methanesulfonic ethanesulfonic toluenesulfonic naphthalenesulfonic benzenesulfonic carbonic fumaric maleic gluconic acetic propionic salicylic hydrochloric hydrobromic phosphoric sulfuric citric hydroxybutyric camphorsulfonic malic phenylacetic aspartic or glutamic acid and the like.

Optimum reaction conditions and reaction times for each individual step can vary depending on the particular reactants employed and substituents present in the reactants used. Specific procedures are provided in the Examples section. Reactions can be worked up in the conventional manner e.g. by eliminating the solvent from the residue and further purified according to methodologies generally known in the art such as but not limited to crystallization distillation extraction trituration and chromatography. Unless otherwise described the starting materials and reagents are either commercially available or can be prepared by one skilled in the art from commercially available materials using methods described in the chemical literature.

Starting materials if not commercially available can be prepared by procedures selected from standard organic chemical techniques techniques that are analogous to the synthesis of known structurally similar compounds or techniques that are analogous to the above described schemes or the procedures described in the synthetic examples section.

Routine experimentations including appropriate manipulation of the reaction conditions reagents and sequence of the synthetic route protection of any chemical functionality that cannot be compatible with the reaction conditions and deprotection at a suitable point in the reaction sequence of the method are included in the scope of the invention. Suitable protecting groups and the methods for protecting and deprotecting different substituents using such suitable protecting groups are well known to those skilled in the art examples of which can be found in PGM Wuts and TW Greene in Greene s book titled Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis 4ed. John Wiley Sons NY 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Synthesis of the compounds of the invention can be accomplished by methods analogous to those described in the synthetic schemes described hereinabove and in specific examples.

When an optically active form of a disclosed compound is required it can be obtained by carrying out one of the procedures described herein using an optically active starting material prepared for example by asymmetric induction of a suitable reaction step or by resolution of a mixture of the stereoisomers of the compound or intermediates using a standard procedure such as chromatographic separation recrystallization or enzymatic resolution .

Similarly when a pure geometric isomer of a compound is required it can be obtained by carrying out one of the above procedures using a pure geometric isomer as a starting material or by resolution of a mixture of the geometric isomers of the compound or intermediates using a standard procedure such as chromatographic separation.

It can be appreciated that the synthetic schemes and specific examples as described are illustrative and are not to be read as limiting the scope of the invention as it is defined in the appended claims. All alternatives modifications and equivalents of the synthetic methods and specific examples are included within the scope of the claims.

The disclosed compounds may be incorporated into pharmaceutical compositions suitable for administration to a subject such as a patient which may be a human or non human .

The pharmaceutical compositions may include a therapeutically effective amount or a prophylactically effective amount of the agent. A therapeutically effective amount refers to an amount effective at dosages and for periods of time necessary to achieve the desired therapeutic result. A therapeutically effective amount of the composition may be determined by a person skilled in the art and may vary according to factors such as the disease state age sex and weight of the individual and the ability of the composition to elicit a desired response in the individual. A therapeutically effective amount is also one in which any toxic or detrimental effects of a compound of the invention e.g. a compound of formula I are outweighed by the therapeutically beneficial effects. A prophylactically effective amount refers to an amount effective at dosages and for periods of time necessary to achieve the desired prophylactic result. Typically since a prophylactic dose is used in subjects prior to or at an earlier stage of disease the prophylactically effective amount will be less than the therapeutically effective amount.

For example a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I may be about 1 mg kg to about 1000 mg kg about 5 mg kg to about 950 mg kg about 10 mg kg to about 900 mg kg about 15 mg kg to about 850 mg kg about 20 mg kg to about 800 mg kg about 25 mg kg to about 750 mg kg about 30 mg kg to about 700 mg kg about 35 mg kg to about 650 mg kg about 40 mg kg to about 600 mg kg about 45 mg kg to about 550 mg kg about 50 mg kg to about 500 mg kg about 55 mg kg to about 450 mg kg about 60 mg kg to about 400 mg kg about 65 mg kg to about 350 mg kg about 70 mg kg to about 300 mg kg about 75 mg kg to about 250 mg kg about 80 mg kg to about 200 mg kg about 85 mg kg to about 150 mg kg and about 90 mg kg to about 100 mg kg.

The pharmaceutical compositions may include pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. The term pharmaceutically acceptable carrier as used herein means a non toxic inert solid semi solid or liquid filler diluent encapsulating material or formulation auxiliary of any type. Some examples of materials which can serve as pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are sugars such as but not limited to lactose glucose and sucrose starches such as but not limited to corn starch and potato starch cellulose and its derivatives such as but not limited to sodium carboxymethyl cellulose ethyl cellulose and cellulose acetate powdered tragacanth malt gelatin talc excipients such as but not limited to cocoa butter and suppository waxes oils such as but not limited to peanut oil cottonseed oil safflower oil sesame oil olive oil corn oil and soybean oil glycols such as propylene glycol esters such as but not limited to ethyl oleate and ethyl laurate agar buffering agents such as but not limited to magnesium hydroxide and aluminum hydroxide alginic acid pyrogen free water isotonic saline Ringer s solution ethyl alcohol and phosphate buffer solutions as well as other non toxic compatible lubricants such as but not limited to sodium lauryl sulfate and magnesium stearate as well as coloring agents releasing agents coating agents sweetening flavoring and perfuming agents preservatives and antioxidants can also be present in the composition according to the judgment of the formulator.

Thus the compounds and their physiologically acceptable salts and solvates may be formulated for administration by for example solid dosing eyedrop in a topical oil based formulation injection inhalation either through the mouth or the nose implants or oral buccal parenteral or rectal administration. Techniques and formulations may generally be found in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Meade Publishing Co. Easton Pa. . Therapeutic compositions must typically be sterile and stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage.

The route by which the disclosed compounds are administered and the form of the composition will dictate the type of carrier to be used. The composition may be in a variety of forms suitable for example for systemic administration e.g. oral rectal nasal sublingual buccal implants or parenteral or topical administration e.g. dermal pulmonary nasal aural ocular liposome delivery systems or iontophoresis .

Carriers for systemic administration typically include at least one of diluents lubricants binders disintegrants colorants flavors sweeteners antioxidants preservatives glidants solvents suspending agents wetting agents surfactants combinations thereof and others. All carriers are optional in the compositions.

Suitable diluents include sugars such as glucose lactose dextrose and sucrose diols such as propylene glycol calcium carbonate sodium carbonate sugar alcohols such as glycerin mannitol and sorbitol. The amount of diluent s in a systemic or topical composition is typically about 50 to about 90 .

Suitable lubricants include silica talc stearic acid and its magnesium salts and calcium salts calcium sulfate and liquid lubricants such as polyethylene glycol and vegetable oils such as peanut oil cottonseed oil sesame oil olive oil corn oil and oil of . The amount of lubricant s in a systemic or topical composition is typically about 5 to about 10 .

Suitable binders include polyvinyl pyrrolidone magnesium aluminum silicate starches such as corn starch and potato starch gelatin tragacanth and cellulose and its derivatives such as sodium carboxymethylcellulose ethyl cellulose methylcellulose microcrystalline cellulose and sodium carboxymethylcellulose. The amount of binder s in a systemic composition is typically about 5 to about 50 .

Suitable disintegrants include agar alginic acid and the sodium salt thereof effervescent mixtures croscarmelose crospovidone sodium carboxymethyl starch sodium starch glycolate clays and ion exchange resins. The amount of disintegrant s in a systemic or topical composition is typically about 0.1 to about 10 .

Suitable colorants include a colorant such as an FD C dye. When used the amount of colorant in a systemic or topical composition is typically about 0.005 to about 0.1 .

Suitable flavors include menthol peppermint and fruit flavors. The amount of flavor s when used in a systemic or topical composition is typically about 0.1 to about 1.0 .

Suitable sweeteners include aspartame and saccharin. The amount of sweetener s in a systemic or topical composition is typically about 0.001 to about 1 .

Suitable antioxidants include butylated hydroxyanisole BHA butylated hydroxytoluene BHT and vitamin E. The amount of antioxidant s in a systemic or topical composition is typically about 0.1 to about 5 .

Suitable preservatives include benzalkonium chloride methyl paraben and sodium benzoate. The amount of preservative s in a systemic or topical composition is typically about 0.01 to about 5 .

Suitable glidants include silicon dioxide. The amount of glidant s in a systemic or topical composition is typically about 1 to about 5 .

Suitable solvents include water isotonic saline ethyl oleate glycerine hydroxylated castor oils alcohols such as ethanol and phosphate buffer solutions. The amount of solvent s in a systemic or topical composition is typically from about 0 to about 100 .

Suitable suspending agents include AVICEL RC 591 from FMC Corporation of Philadelphia Pa. and sodium alginate. The amount of suspending agent s in a systemic or topical composition is typically about 1 to about 8 .

Suitable surfactants include lecithin Polysorbate 80 and sodium lauryl sulfate and the TWEENS from Atlas Powder Company of Wilmington Del. Suitable surfactants include those disclosed in the C.T.F.A. Cosmetic Ingredient Handbook 1992 pp. 587 592 Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 15th Ed. 1975 pp. 335 337 and McCutcheon s Volume 1 Emulsifiers Detergents 1994 North American Edition pp. 236 239. The amount of surfactant s in the systemic or topical composition is typically about 0.1 to about 5 .

Although the amounts of components in the systemic compositions may vary depending on the type of systemic composition prepared in general systemic compositions include 0.01 to 50 of active e.g. compound of formula I and 50 to 99.99 of one or more carriers. Compositions for parenteral administration typically include 0.1 to 10 of actives and 90 to 99.9 of a carrier including a diluent and a solvent.

Compositions for oral administration can have various dosage forms. For example solid forms include tablets capsules granules and bulk powders. These oral dosage forms include a safe and effective amount usually at least about 5 and more particularly from about 25 to about 50 of actives. The oral dosage compositions include about 50 to about 95 of carriers and more particularly from about 50 to about 75 .

Tablets can be compressed tablet triturates enteric coated sugar coated film coated or multiple compressed. Tablets typically include an active component and a carrier comprising ingredients selected from diluents lubricants binders disintegrants colorants flavors sweeteners glidants and combinations thereof. Specific diluents include calcium carbonate sodium carbonate mannitol lactose and cellulose. Specific binders include starch gelatin and sucrose. Specific disintegrants include alginic acid and croscarmelose. Specific lubricants include magnesium stearate stearic acid and talc. Specific colorants are the FD C dyes which can be added for appearance. Chewable tablets preferably contain sweeteners such as aspartame and saccharin or flavors such as menthol peppermint fruit flavors or a combination thereof.

Capsules including implants time release and sustained release formulations typically include an active compound e.g. a compound of formula I and a carrier including one or more diluents disclosed above in a capsule comprising gelatin. Granules typically comprise a disclosed compound and preferably glidants such as silicon dioxide to improve flow characteristics. Implants can be of the biodegradable or the non biodegradable type.

The selection of ingredients in the carrier for oral compositions depends on secondary considerations like taste cost and shelf stability which are not critical for the purposes of this invention.

Solid compositions may be coated by conventional methods typically with pH or time dependent coatings such that a disclosed compound is released in the gastrointestinal tract in the vicinity of the desired application or at various points and times to extend the desired action. The coatings typically include one or more components selected from the group consisting of cellulose acetate phthalate polyvinyl acetate phthalate hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose phthalate ethyl cellulose EUDRAGIT coatings available from Rohm Haas G.M.B.H. of Darmstadt Germany waxes and shellac.

Compositions for oral administration can have liquid forms. For example suitable liquid forms include aqueous solutions emulsions suspensions solutions reconstituted from non effervescent granules suspensions reconstituted from non effervescent granules effervescent preparations reconstituted from effervescent granules elixirs tinctures syrups and the like. Liquid orally administered compositions typically include a disclosed compound and a carrier namely a carrier selected from diluents colorants flavors sweeteners preservatives solvents suspending agents and surfactants. Peroral liquid compositions preferably include one or more ingredients selected from colorants flavors and sweeteners.

Other compositions useful for attaining systemic delivery of the subject compounds include sublingual buccal and nasal dosage forms. Such compositions typically include one or more of soluble filler substances such as diluents including sucrose sorbitol and mannitol and binders such as acacia microcrystalline cellulose carboxymethyl cellulose and hydroxypropyl methylcellulose. Such compositions may further include lubricants colorants flavors sweeteners antioxidants and glidants.

The disclosed compounds can be topically administered. Topical compositions that can be applied locally to the skin may be in any form including solids solutions oils creams ointments gels lotions shampoos leave on and rinse out hair conditioners milks cleansers moisturizers sprays skin patches and the like. Topical compositions include a disclosed compound e.g. a compound of formula I and a carrier. The carrier of the topical composition preferably aids penetration of the compounds into the skin. The carrier may further include one or more optional components.

The amount of the carrier employed in conjunction with a disclosed compound is sufficient to provide a practical quantity of composition for administration per unit dose of the medicament. Techniques and compositions for making dosage forms useful in the methods of this invention are described in the following references Modern Pharmaceutics Chapters 9 and 10 Banker Rhodes eds. 1979 Lieberman et al. Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms Tablets 1981 and Ansel Introduction to Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms 2nd Ed. 1976 .

A carrier may include a single ingredient or a combination of two or more ingredients. In the topical compositions the carrier includes a topical carrier. Suitable topical carriers include one or more ingredients selected from phosphate buffered saline isotonic water deionized water monofunctional alcohols symmetrical alcohols aloe vera gel allantoin glycerin vitamin A and E oils mineral oil propylene glycol PPG 2 myristyl propionate dimethyl isosorbide castor oil combinations thereof and the like. More particularly carriers for skin applications include propylene glycol dimethyl isosorbide and water and even more particularly phosphate buffered saline isotonic water deionized water monofunctional alcohols and symmetrical alcohols.

The carrier of a topical composition may further include one or more ingredients selected from emollients propellants solvents humectants thickeners powders fragrances pigments and preservatives all of which are optional.

Suitable emollients include stearyl alcohol glyceryl monoricinoleate glyceryl monostearate propane 1 2 diol butane 1 3 diol mink oil cetyl alcohol isopropyl isostearate stearic acid isobutyl palmitate isocetyl stearate oleyl alcohol isopropyl laurate hexyl laurate decyl oleate octadecan 2 ol isocetyl alcohol cetyl palmitate di n butyl sebacate isopropyl myristate isopropyl palmitate isopropyl stearate butyl stearate polyethylene glycol triethylene glycol lanolin sesame oil coconut oil arachis oil castor oil acetylated lanolin alcohols petroleum mineral oil butyl myristate isostearic acid palmitic acid isopropyl linoleate lauryl lactate myristyl lactate decyl oleate myristyl myristate and combinations thereof. Specific emollients for skin include stearyl alcohol and polydimethylsiloxane. The amount of emollient s in a skin based topical composition is typically about 5 to about 95 .

Suitable propellants include propane butane isobutane dimethyl ether carbon dioxide nitrous oxide and combinations thereof. The amount of propellant s in a topical composition is typically about 0 to about 95 .

Suitable solvents include water ethyl alcohol methylene chloride isopropanol castor oil ethylene glycol monoethyl ether diethylene glycol monobutyl ether diethylene glycol monoethyl ether dimethylsulfoxide dimethyl formamide tetrahydrofuran and combinations thereof. Specific solvents include ethyl alcohol and homotopic alcohols. The amount of solvent s in a topical composition is typically about 0 to about 95 .

Suitable humectants include glycerin sorbitol sodium 2 pyrrolidone 5 carboxylate soluble collagen dibutyl phthalate gelatin and combinations thereof. Specific humectants include glycerin. The amount of humectant s in a topical composition is typically 0 to 95 .

Suitable powders include beta cyclodextrins hydroxypropyl cyclodextrins chalk talc fullers earth kaolin starch gums colloidal silicon dioxide sodium polyacrylate tetra alkyl ammonium smectites trialkyl aryl ammonium smectites chemically modified magnesium aluminum silicate organically modified Montmorillonite clay hydrated aluminum silicate fumed silica carboxyvinyl polymer sodium carboxymethyl cellulose ethylene glycol monostearate and combinations thereof. The amount of powder s in a topical composition is typically 0 to 95 .

The amount of fragrance in a topical composition is typically about 0 to about 0.5 particularly about 0.001 to about 0.1 .

Suitable pH adjusting additives include HCl or NaOH in amounts sufficient to adjust the pH of a topical pharmaceutical composition.

The disclosed compounds and compositions may be used in methods for treatment of mGlurelated medical disorders and or diseases. The methods of treatment may comprise administering to a subject in need of such treatment a composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of the compound of formula I .

The compositions can be administered to a subject in need thereof to modulate mGlu for a variety of diverse biological processes. The present disclosure is directed to methods for administering the composition to inhibit mGlu a GPCR that plays a role in synaptic plasticity which directly effects cognitive function and memory for example.

The compositions may be useful for treating and preventing certain diseases and disorders in humans and animals related to mGludysfunction. Treatment or prevention of such diseases and disorders can be effected by modulating mGluin a subject by administering a compound or composition of the invention either alone or in combination with another active agent as part of a therapeutic regimen to a subject in need thereof.

Antidepressant like effects of the mGlureceptor antagonists MGS0039 and LY341495 were first demonstrated in the rat forced swim test FST and mouse tail suspension test TST using normal animals Chaki et al. 2004 46 457 467 . More recently studies have attempted to evaluate the effects of these drugs in paradigms implicated in the etiology of human depression. MGS0039 exhibited antidepressant effects in the learned helplessness test where treatment with MGS0039 for 7 days significantly reduced the number of escape failures Yoshimizu et al. 2006 186 587 593 . Palucha Poniewiera et al. 2010 212 523 535 evaluated a potential antidepressant like effect of MGS0039 in the olfactory bulbectomy OB model of depression in rats. A surgical lesion of the olfactory bulbs in animals is known to induce significant behavioral physiological endocrine and immune changes many of which are qualitatively similar to those observed in depressive patients. Repeated administration of MGS0039 for 14 days attenuated the hyperactivity of olfactory bulbectomized rats in the open field test and attenuated the learning deficit in the passive avoidance test.

Kawasaki et al. 2011 60 397 404 also examined the effect of MGS0039 on behaviors of social isolation reared mice in the FST. Rearing rodents in isolation after weaning is known to lead to changes in brain neurochemistry that produce perturbations in behavior. Post weaning chronic social isolation for more than 6 weeks increased immobility in the FST suggesting that isolation rearing caused depression like behavior. MGS0039 reversed the increased immobility of social isolation reared mice in the test.

Campo B. et al. 2011 25 152 166 demonstrated a selective group II mGluand mGlu negative allosteric modulator RO4491533 to be effective in several in vitro biochemical assays and in vivo models of depression. RO4491533 was shown to engage the central mGluand mGlureceptors as the compound reversed the hypolocomotor effect of an mGluagonist LY379268 in a target specific manner. The known group II mGluantagonist LY341495 achieved the same result. RO4491533 and LY341495 dose dependently reduced immobility time of C57B16 J mice in the FST. RO4491533 and LY341495 were also active in the tail suspension test in a line of Helpless H mice a putative genetic model of depression.

Blockade of mGlureceptors and ketamine may converge to the same neuronal circuits which include activation of AMPA receptor and mTOR signaling. Because both AMPA receptor stimulation and subsequent mTOR signaling activation are presumed to be involved in rapid action of ketamine for patients with treatment resistant depression TRD mGlureceptor antagonists could exert the same effects in humans. This assumption is underpinned by several animal studies. First the mGlureceptor antagonist MGS0039 exhibited antidepressant effects in an animal model the learned helplessness paradigm which is refractory to currently prescribed antidepressants Yoshimizu et al. 2006 186 587 593 . Second although evidence of rapid onset of action with mGlureceptor antagonists are absent an AMPA receptor potentiator AMPA receptor potentiation mediates antidepressant effects of mGlureceptor antagonists showed faster effects during the first week of treatment compared to fluoxetine after two weeks in a dominant submissive test Knapp et al. 2002 440 121 125 . Moreover LY341495 exhibited a potent antidepressant effect in helpless mice following acute administration while fluoxetine exerted a full antidepressant effect following chronic 21 days treatment Campo B. et al. 2011 25 152 166 El Yacoubi et al. 2003 100 6227 6232 . Therefore blockade of mGlureceptors may show rapid and potent antidepressant effects in humans.

Woltering et al. 2010 20 6969 74 demonstrated that a negative allosteric modulator of mGlureversed mGluagonist or scopolamine induced working memory deficits in the delayed match to position DMTP task in rodents a measure of working memory. Additionally Woltering demonstrated a synergistic reversal of scopolamine induced deficits in DMTP when low doses of a negative allosteric modulator of mGluwere combined with a threshold dose of the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor donezepil. Given the efficacy of donepezil and other acetylcholinesterase inhibitors in the treatment of the cognitive impairments in Alzheimer s disease negative allosteric modulators of mGlumay have efficacy as cognitive enhancers.

Shimazaki T. et al. 2004 501 121 125 demonstrated that MGS0039 induced glutamatergic change in mice resulting in anti obsessive compulsive disorder activity. In these studies a marble burying behavioral test was utilized as a model for obsessive compulsive disorder. The marble burying behavior test is recognized as a useful model for evaluating the clinical potential of anti obsessive compulsive disorder drugs. Specifically MGS0039 treated mice exhibited reduced marble burying behavior in a significant and dose dependent manner while no significant change was observed in spontaneous locomotor activity. In addition LY341495 another potent antagonist of group II mGlu receptors was also shown to significantly reduce marble burying behavior in treated mice.

Kim S. H. et al. 2014 1 8 have assessed the therapeutic potential of chronic pharmacological inhibition of group II mGlu receptors mGluand mGlu with a group II mGlu receptor antagonist in an APP transgenic mouse model that develops impaired learning behavior in relation to accumulation of mutant A oligomers that never form amyloid plaques. Once daily dosing of the orally bioavailable prodrug BCI 838 delivered a sufficient brain concentration of its active metabolite BCI 632 to inhibit group II mGlu receptors for 22 hours. Three months of treatment with BCI 838 provided anxiolytic effects reversed Dutch APP transgene associated learning and memory impairment and decreased the levels of monomeric and oA peptides in the hippocampus and cortex of the two different AD mouse models. Notably BCI 838 administration stimulated hippocampal progenitor cell proliferation in both wild type and Alzheimer s diseased mice for 3 months which resulted in significantly increased numbers of newborn neurons in the hippocampi of Dutch APP transgenic mice. In addition to treatment the proneurogenic properties make the compound attractive for potential use in reversing some of the early symptoms of Alzheimer s disease AD possibly through reparative effects of the newborn neurons. These findings suggest that chronic pharmacological inhibition of group II mGlu receptors has the potential to be a disease modifying treatment for AD that targets cognitive emotional defects and modulates neurogenesis.

Additional studies by Caraci F. et al 2011 79 618 626 showed that a positive allosteric modulator of mGlu LY566332 amplified A induced neurodegeneration but this effect was prevented by the mGlureceptor antagonist LY341495.

Yoshimizu et al. 2006 186 587 593 also demonstrated the anxiolytic effects of MGS0039 a potent antagonist of group II mGlu receptors mGluand mGlu by use of a conditioned fear stress CFS model which represents emotional abnormality including anxiety. The CFS model reflects psychological stress without physical stimuli and is useful in predicting the clinical efficacy of anxiolytic drugs. In these studies MGS0039 significantly decreased freezing behavior as did diazepam and fluvoxamine indicating the anxiolytic like potential of MGS0039. The mGlureceptors inhibit neurotransmitter release as autoreceptors located on glutamatergic terminals and treatment with mGluantagonists such as MGS0039 in vivo led to an increase in extracellular glutamate. Therefore the moderate elevation of glutamate levels in specific areas of the brain by MGS0039 may cause the anxiolytic like effects seen in the CFS model. These results suggest that the blockade of mGluwith MGS0039 may be effective in the treatment of anxiety disorders.

Methods of treatment may include any number of modes of administering a disclosed composition. Modes of administration may include tablets pills dragees hard and soft gel capsules granules pellets aqueous lipid oily or other solutions emulsions such as oil in water emulsions liposomes aqueous or oily suspensions syrups elixirs solid emulsions solid dispersions or dispersible powders. For the preparation of pharmaceutical compositions for oral administration the agent may be admixed with commonly known and used adjuvants and excipients such as for example gum arabic talcum starch sugars such as e.g. mannitose methyl cellulose lactose gelatin surface active agents magnesium stearate aqueous or non aqueous solvents paraffin derivatives cross linking agents dispersants emulsifiers lubricants conserving agents flavoring agents e.g. ethereal oils solubility enhancers e.g. benzyl benzoate or benzyl alcohol or bioavailability enhancers e.g. Gelucire . In the pharmaceutical composition the agent may also be dispersed in a microparticle e.g. a nanoparticulate composition.

For parenteral administration the agent can be dissolved or suspended in a physiologically acceptable diluent such as e.g. water buffer oils with or without solubilizers surface active agents dispersants or emulsifiers. As oils for example and without limitation olive oil peanut oil cottonseed oil soybean oil castor oil and sesame oil may be used. More generally spoken for parenteral administration the agent can be in the form of an aqueous lipid oily or other kind of solution or suspension or even administered in the form of liposomes or nano suspensions.

The term parenterally as used herein refers to modes of administration which include intravenous intramuscular intraperitoneal intrasternal subcutaneous and intraarticular injection and infusion.

Additional therapeutic agent s may be administered simultaneously or sequentially with the disclosed compounds and compositions. Sequential administration includes administration before or after the disclosed compounds and compositions. In some embodiments the additional therapeutic agent or agents may be administered in the same composition as the disclosed compounds. In other embodiments there may be an interval of time between administration of the additional therapeutic agent and the disclosed compounds. In some embodiments administration of an additional therapeutic agent with a disclosed compound may allow lower doses of the other therapeutic agents and or administration at less frequent intervals. When used in combination with one or more other active ingredients the compounds of the present invention and the other active ingredients may be used in lower doses than when each is used singly. Accordingly the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention include those that contain one or more other active ingredients in addition to a compound of Formula I . The above combinations include combinations of a compound of the present invention not only with one other active compound but also with two or more other active compounds. For example the compound of Formula I can be combined with a variety of antidepressants Alzheimer s disease medications and anxiolytics.

The compound of Formula I can be combined with the following antidepressants but not limited to Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors SSRIs such as citalopram dapoxetine escitalopram fluoxetine fluvoxamine indalpine paroxetine sertraline and zimelidine Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors SNRIs such as venlafaxine desvenlafaxine duloxetine milnacipran levomilnacipran and sibutramine Noradrenergic and specific serotonergic antidepressants NaSSAs or tetracyclic antidepressants TeCAs such as aptazapine esmirtazapine mianserin mirtazapine and setiptiline Serotonin antagonist and reuptake inhibitors SARIs such as etoperidone lorpiprazole mepiprazole nefazodone trazodone vilazodone and niaprazine Norepinephrine dopamine reuptake inhibitors NDRIs such as armodafinil bupropion desoxypipradrol dexmethylphenidate methylphenidate modafinil prolintane and tametraline Serotonin norepinephrine dopamine reuptake inhibitors SNDRIs such as nefopam amitifadine tesofensine and tedatioxetine Tricyclic antidepressants TCAs such as clomipramine desipramine imipramine dibenzepin lofepramine nortriptyline protriptyline amitriptyline amitriptylinoxide amoxapine butriptyline demexiptiline dimetacrine dosulepin doxepin imipraminoxide melitracen metapramine nitroxazepine noxiptiline pipofezine propizepine quinupramine amineptine iprindole opipramol tianeptine and trimipramine and Negative allosteric modulators of metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 mGlus such as mavoglurant basimglurant dipraglurant STX107 and N 5 fluoropyridin 2 yl 6 methyl 4 pyrimidin 5 yloxy picolinamide.

The compound of Formula I can be combined with the following Alzheimer s disease medications but not limited to Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors such as tacrine rivastigmine galantamine donepezil edrophonium physostigmine pyridostigmine ambenonium rivastigmine ladostigil and ungeremine and NMDA receptor antagonists such as memantine amantadine delucemine and ketamine.

The compound of Formula I can be combined with the following anxiolytics but not limited to buspirone tandosprione gepirone adaptol afobazole hyroxyzine validol melatonin and benzodiazepines such as alprazolam chlordiazepoxide clonazepam diazepam etizolam lorazepam oxazepam and tofisopam.

The disclosed compounds may be included in kits comprising the compound e.g. one or more compounds of formula I a systemic or topical composition described above or both and information instructions or both that use of the kit will provide treatment for medical conditions in mammals particularly humans . The information and instructions may be in the form of words pictures or both and the like. In addition or in the alternative the kit may include the medicament a composition or both and information instructions or both regarding methods of application of medicament or of composition preferably with the benefit of treating or preventing medical conditions in mammals e.g. humans .

The compounds and processes of the invention will be better understood by reference to the following examples which are intended as an illustration of and not a limitation upon the scope of the invention.

Examples 1 12 below give representative experimental procedures for the syntheses of intermediates useful for the synthesis of compounds of formula I . Examples 13 18 give representative experimental procedures for completion of the syntheses of compounds of formula I . Example 19 reports the biological activity of compounds of formula I .

All NMR spectra were recorded on a 400 MHz AMX Bruker NMR spectrometer. H chemical shifts are reported in 6 values in ppm downfield with the deuterated solvent as the internal standard. Data are reported as follows chemical shift multiplicity s singlet bs broad singlet d doublet t triplet q quartet dd doublet of doublets m multiplet ABq AB quartet coupling constant integration. Reversed phase LCMS analysis was performed using an Agilent 1200 system comprised of a binary pump with degasser high performance autosampler thermostatted column compartment C18 column diode array detector DAD and an Agilent 6150 MSD with the following parameters. The gradient conditions were 5 to 95 acetonitrile with the aqueous phase 0.1 TFA in water over 1.4 minutes. Samples were separated on a Waters Acquity UPLC BEH C18 column 1.7 m 1.0 50 mm at 0.5 mL min with column and solvent temperatures maintained at 55 C. The DAD was set to scan from 190 to 300 nm and the signals used were 220 nm and 254 nm both with a band width of 4 nm . The MS detector was configured with an electrospray ionization source and the low resolution mass spectra were acquired by scanning from 140 to 700 AMU with a step size of 0.2 AMU at 0.13 cycles second and peak width of 0.008 minutes. The drying gas flow was set to 13 liters per minute at 300 C. and the nebulizer pressure was set to 30 psi. The capillary needle voltage was set at 3000 V and the fragmentor voltage was set at 100V. Data acquisition was performed with Agilent Chemstation and Analytical Studio Reviewer software.

3 Ethoxy 3 oxopropanoic acid B 2.16 mL 18.3 mmol 2.00 eq was dissolved in THF 91 mL in an oven dried round bottom flask and 2 2 bipyridyl 8.00 mg 0.0512 mmol 0.0056 eq was added as an indicator. The reaction was cooled to 30 C. and n butyllithium 1.6 M in hexanes 29.0 mL 45.6 mmol 4.00 eq was added dropwise over 20 minutes. Upon final addition the reaction turned red at which point it was allowed to warm to 5 C. The reaction was allowed to stir at 5 C. for 15 minutes during which time the red color began to dissipate. Enough n butyllithium was added to cause the red color to persist. The reaction was then cooled to 78 C. and 5 bromo 2 fluoro benzoyl chloride A 2.17 g 9.14 mmol 1.00 eq was added dropwise as a solution in THF 6.9 mL . The reaction was allowed to stir at 78 C. for 30 minutes and then allowed to warm to 30 C. and stirred for an additional 30 minutes. The reaction was poured onto ice cold 1N HCl 92 mL and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate lx and DCM 2 . The combined organics were dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification by flash chromatography on silica gel using 0 10 hexanes ethyl acetate afforded 1.78 g 67 of the title compound as an off white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.97 dd J 6.5 2.6 Hz 1H 7.91 7.86 m 1H 7.40 7.34 m 1H 4.13 4.07 m 4H 1.15 t J 7.1 Hz 3H ES MS M 1 289.0.

Compound C 2.87 g 9.93 mmol 1.00 eq and N N dimethylformamide dimethyl acetal 1.87 mL 14.9 mmol 1.50 eq were dissolved in DMF 33 mL in a microwave vial and heated in a microwave reactor at 120 C. for 15 minutes. To this mixture was then added 4 fluoroaniline 1.41 mL 14.9 mmol 1.50 eq and the reaction was heated in a microwave reactor at 150 C. for 20 minutes. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with water 2 . The aqueous layers were back extracted with ethyl acetate and the combined organics were dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification by flash chromatography on silica gel using 0 45 hexanes ethyl acetate afforded 3.79 g 98 of the title compound as yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.47 s 1H 8.31 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 7.81 dd J 9.1 2.4 Hz 1H 7.77 7.73 m 2H 7.54 7.50 m 2H 6.92 d J 9.0 Hz 1H 4.20 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 1.25 t J 7.1 Hz 3H ES MS M 1 390.2.

Compound D 1.00 g 2.56 mmol 1.00 eq was suspended in 7N ammonia in methanol 30 mL in a microwave vial and the reaction was heated in a microwave reactor at 150 C. for 60 minutes. The reaction was concentrated to afford 881 mg 95 of the title compound as a brown solid that was used without further purification. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.08 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 8.57 s 1H 8.43 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 7.85 dd J 9.1 2.4 Hz 1H 7.77 7.73 m 2H 7.66 d J 4.1 Hz 1H 7.56 7.50 m 2H 7.02 d J 9.1 Hz 1H ES MS M 1 361.2.

To a solution of compound E 450 mg 1.25 mmol triethylamine 174 L 1.25 mmol and Pd dppf ClCHCl 18.2 mg 0.025 mmol in 1 propanol 8.3 mL was added potassium vinyltrifluoroborate 200 mg 1.50 mmol . The reaction was purged with argon and stirred at 100 C. for 16 hours. The reaction was filtered over Celite and washed very well with a 5 MeOH in DCM solution and concentrated in vacuo to give 385 mg 100 of the title compound that was used without further purification. ES MS M 1 309.2.

To a solution of compound F 385 mg 1.25 mmol in 3 1 acetone water 8 mL was added N oxide 4 methylmorpholine 220 mg 1.87 mmol and osmium tetroxide 254 L 0.025 mmol . After the reaction stirred for one hour sodium periodate 294 mg 1.37 mmol was added. After another two hours the reaction was diluted with EtOAc and washed well with a 10 NaSOsolution. The organic layer was dried MgSO4 filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give 365 mg 94 of the title compound that was used without further purification. ES MS M 1 311.2.

Ethyl 1 4 fluorophenyl 6 formyl 4 oxo 1 4 dihydroquinoline 3 carboxylate H was prepared from compound D via a method analogous to that described in Example 3. After stirring for two hours a solution of compound H 10 mg 0.030 mmol morpholine 3.1 L 0.035 mmol and acetic acid 4.2 L 0.074 mmol in dichloromethane 1 mL was treated with sodium triacetoxyborohydride 9.4 mg 0.044 mmol . After stirring 16 hours the reaction was concentrated to dryness to give 12 mg 99 of the title compound that was used without further purification. ES MS M 1 411.3.

To compound H 335 mg 0.99 mmol in ethanol 5 mL cooled to 0 C. was added sodium borohydride 18.7 mg 0.49 mmol . After ten minutes the reaction was diluted with EtOAc and washed well with water. The organic layer was dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification by flash chromatography on silica gel afforded 192 mg 57 of the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.44 s 1H 8.25 s 1H 7.76 7.72 m 2H 7.61 d J 6 Hz 1H 7.54 t J 8.64 8.68 Hz 2H 6.94 d J 8.68 1H 5.42 t J 5.68 5.64 Hz 1H 4.62 d J 5.48 Hz 2H 4.23 q J 7.08 Hz 2H 1.27 t J 7.12 7.04 Hz 3H ES MS M 1 342.3.

Compound D 500 mg 1.28 mmol 1.00 eq potassium hydroxide 216 mg 3.84 mmol 3.00 eq tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 70.4 mg 0.0769 mmol 0.0600 eq and 2 di tert butylphosphino 2 4 6 triisopropylbiphenyl 65.3 mg 0.154 mmol 0.120 eq were suspended in a mixture of 1 4 dioxane 3.2 mL and water 3.2 mL in a microwave vial and heated in a microwave reactor at 150 C. for 15 minutes. The reaction was neutralized with 2N HCl and the mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with water. The organic phase was dried MgSO4 filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford 383 mg 99 of the title compound as a brown solid that was used without further purification. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d6 8.56 s 1H 7.75 7.72 m 2H 7.67 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 7.51 t J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.26 d J 9.1 Hz 1H 6.99 d J 9.2 Hz 1H ES MS M 1 300.2.

Compound K 383 mg 1.28 mmol 1.00 eq was dissolved in methanol 6.4 mL and concentrated sulfuric acid 0.64 mL was added dropwise. The reaction was heated to reflux for 3 hours at which point it was cooled and neutralized with a saturated solution of sodium bicarbonate. The mixture was extracted with a solution of 3 1 CHCl IPA 2 and the combined organics were dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification by flash chromatography on silica gel using 0 20 89 10 1 DCM methanol NHH afforded 296 mg 74 of the title compound as yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 10.03 s 1H 8.36 s 1H 7.72 7.68 m 2H 7.61 d J 2.8 Hz 1H 7.49 t J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.11 dd J 9.0 2.8 Hz 1H 6.84 d J 9.1 Hz 1H 3.71 s 3H ES MS M 1 314.2.

Compound L 15 mg 0.048 mmol 1.0 eq and 3 pyridinemethanol 10 mg 0.096 mmol 2.0 eq were dissolved in THF 0.5 mL and cooled to 0 C. Triphenylphosphine 28 mg 0.11 mmol 2.2 eq and di tert butylazodicarboxylate 18 mg 0.077 mmol 1.6 eq were added and the reaction was stirred at room temperature until complete by LCMS. The reaction was concentrated and purified using reverse phase chromatography to afford 15 mg 77 of the title compound as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.69 d J 1.7 Hz 1H 8.54 dd J 4.7 1.3 Hz 1H 8.41 s 1H 7.90 7.88 m 1H 7.79 d J 3.0 Hz 1H 7.73 7.70 m 2H 7.50 t J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.43 dd J 7.8 4.8 Hz 1H 7.37 dd J 9.3 3.0 Hz 1H 6.94 d J 9.2 Hz 1H 5.28 s 2H 3.72 s 3H ES MS M 1 405.2.

To a solution of compound J 16 mg 0.047 mmol and 5 hydroxy 2 methylpyrimidine 6.2 mg 0.056 mmol in THF 1 mL cooled to 0 C. was added triphenylphosphine 27.1 mg 0.10 mmol and di tert butylazodicarboxylate 17.3 mg 0.075 mmol . The reaction was concentrated to dryness after 16 hours of stirring. Purification by reverse phase HPLC afforded 20 mg 98 of the title compound. ES MS M 1 434.3.

Compound D 75 mg 0.19 mmol 1.0 eq N methyl N 3 pyridylmethyl amine 47 mg 0.38 mmol 2.0 eq cesium carbonate 88 mg 0.27 mmol 1.4 eq tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 14 mg 0.015 mmol 0.080 eq and 4 5 bis diphenylphosphino 9 9 dimethylxanthene 13 mg 0.023 mmol 0.12 eq were dissolved in toluene 1.9 mL in a sealed vial and heated at 110 C. overnight. The reaction was cooled filtered over Celite and washed with 5 methanol in DCM. The organics were concentrated and purified using reverse phase chromatography to afford 27 mg 33 of the title compound as a yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.44 s 2H 8.28 s 1H 7.68 dd J 6.9 4.9 Hz 2H 7.58 d J 7.8 Hz 1H 7.47 t J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.40 d J 3.0 Hz 1H 7.34 7.30 m 1H 7.21 dd J 9.3 3.0 Hz 1H 6.80 d J 9.3 Hz 1H 4.70 s 2H 4.17 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 3.12 s 3H 1.23 t J 7.1 Hz 3H ES MS M 1 432.3.

Compound D 50 mg 0.13 mmol 1.0 eq 5 ethynyl 2 methyl pyrimidine 30 mg 0.26 mmol 2.0 eq copper I iodide 2.5 mg 0.013 mmol 0.010 eq bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride 4.5 mg 0.0064 mmol 0.050 eq and triethylamine 53.6 L 0.38 mmol 3.0 eq were dissolved in DMF 1.3 mL in a microwave vial and heated in a microwave reactor at 150 C. for 15 minutes. The reaction was purified directly using reverse phase chromatography to afford 30 mg 55 of the title compound as white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.93 s 2H 8.47 s 1H 8.40 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.81 7.76 m 3H 7.53 t J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.02 d J 8.80 Hz 1H 4.21 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 2.66 s 3H 1.25 t J 7.1 Hz 3H ES MS M 1 428.2.

Compound D 450 mg 1.15 mmol trimethylsilylacetylene 179 L 1.27 mmol PdCl PPh 40.5 mg 0.058 mmol CuI 22 mg 0.12 mmol triethylamine 321 L 2.31 mmol and DMF 5.8 mL were added to a microwave vial. The vial was capped and place in a microwave reactor at 150 C. for one hour. The reaction was washed with water and brine and extracted with EtOAc 2 . The organics were combined dried MgSO and concentrated to dryness. Purification by flash chromatography on silica gel afforded 205 mg 44 of the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.45 s 1H 8.24 d J 1.84 Hz 1H 7.76 7.73 m 2H 7.68 dd J 8.8 Hz 1H 7.52 t J 8.64 8.72 Hz 2H 6.93 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 4.22 q J 7.08 Hz 2H 1.25 t J 7.12 7.04 Hz 3H 0.24 s 9H ES MS M 1 408.2.

To a solution of Compound Q 205 mg 0.5 mmol in THF 2.5 mL was added a 1M solution of TBAF in THF 554 L 0.55 mmol . After thirty minutes the reaction was concentrated in vacuo. Purification by flash chromatography on silica gel afforded 110 mg 65 of the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.47 s 1H 8.28 d J 1.84 Hz 1H 7.77 7.69 m 3H 7.54 7.5 m 2H 6.67 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 4.22 4.19 m 3H 1.28 1.23 m 3H ES MS M 1 336.3.

Compound R 20 mg 0.06 mmol 4 bromo 2 trifluoromethyl pyridine 16.2 mg 0.07 mmol CuI 1.1 mg 0.006 mmol triethylamine 25 L 0.18 mmol PdCl PPh 2.7 mg 0.003 mmol and DMF 600 L were added to a small microwave vial. The vial was capped and placed in microwave reactor at 150 C. for fifteen minutes. The reaction was filtered over Celite washed very well with a 5 MeOH in DCM solution and concentrated to dryness. Purification by reverse phase HPLC afforded 13 mg 45 of the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.84 d J 4.96 Hz 1H 8.52 8.5 m 2H 8.17 s 1H 7.93 d J 5.04 Hz 1H 7.87 dd J 8.8 Hz 1H 7.81 7.77 m 2H 7.55 t J 8.64 8.68 Hz 2H 7.07 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 4.24 q J 7.04 7.08 Hz 2H 1.28 t J 7.12 7.08 Hz 3H ES MS M 1 481.2.

Compound P 25 mg 0.059 mmol 1.0 eq was dissolved in methanol 2 mL and palladium on carbon 1 mg was added. The reaction was pumped and purged with hydrogen and allowed to stir overnight. The reaction was filtered over Celite and washed with 5 methanol in DCM. The organics were concentrated and purified using reverse phase chromatography to afford 16 mg 63 of title compound as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.54 s 2H 8.41 s 1H 8.09 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.74 7.71 m 2H 7.55 dd J 8.7 2.1 Hz 1H 7.50 t J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.89 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 4.20 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 3.04 t J 8.3 Hz 2H 2.89 t J 8.3 Hz 2H 2.53 s 3H 1.24 t J 7.1 Hz 3H ES MS M 1 432.3.

Compound T 11 mg 0.026 mmol 1.0 eq was dissolved in 7N ammonia in methanol 1 mL in a microwave vial and heated in a microwave reactor at 150 C. for 60 minutes. The reaction was concentrated and purified by reverse phase chromatography to afford 6.7 mg 65 of the title compound as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.24 d J 4.4 Hz 1H 8.55 s 2H 8.53 s 1H 8.20 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.76 7.71 m 2H 7.62 7.58 m 2H 7.51 t J 8.7 Hz 2H 6.99 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 3.06 t J 8.3 Hz 2H 2.90 t J 8.3 Hz 2H 2.53 s 3H ES MS M 1 403.2.

The following compounds were prepared in an analogous manner by first preparing the appropriate synthetic intermediate by use of the synthetic procedures indicated next to each compound 

Ethyl 7 fluoro 1 4 fluorophenyl 6 methyl pyridin 3 ylmethyl amino 4 oxo 1 4 dihydroquinoline 3 carboxylate U was prepared from 5 bromo 2 4 difluorobenzoyl chloride via a method analogous to that described in Examples 1 and 9. Compound U 27 mg 0.060 mmol 1.0 eq was dissolved in 1 4 dioxane 0.5 mL and 1N sodium hydroxide 0.12 mL 0.12 mmol 2.0 eq was added. The reaction was stirred until complete by LCMS at which time it was neutralized to pH 4 5 with 1N HCl and concentrated to dryness. The residue was suspended in 10 methanol in DCM and filtered. The organics were concentrated to afford 25 mg 99 of the title compound as an off white solid that was used without further purification. ES MS M 1 422.2.

Compound U 26 mg 0.062 mmol 1.0 eq ammonium chloride 6.6 mg 0.12 mmol 2.0 eq 1 bis dimethylamino methylene 1H 1 2 3 triazolo 4 5 b pyridinium 3 oxid hexafluorophosphate 28 mg 0.074 mmol 1.2 eq and N N diisopropylethylamine 43 L 0.25 mmol 4.0 eq were dissolved in DMF 0.5 mL and stirred overnight. The reaction was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with water 2 . The aqueous phase was back extracted with ethyl acetate and the combined organics were dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification by reverse phase chromatography afforded 7.0 mg 27 of the title compound as white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.21 d J 4.4 Hz 1H 8.48 8.45 m 3H 7.76 7.72 m 3H 7.67 dt J 7.8 1.7 Hz 1H 7.58 d J 4.4 Hz 1H 7.51 t J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.35 dd J 7.7 4.9 Hz 1H 6.81 d J 14.0 Hz 1H 4.41 s 2H 2.83 s 3H ES MS M 1 421.2.

The following compounds were prepared in an analogous manner by first preparing the appropriate synthetic intermediate by use of the synthetic procedures indicated next to each compound 

Compound E 15 mg 0.042 mmol 1.0 eq 5 hydroxy 2 methylpyridine 9.1 mg 0.083 mmol 2.0 eq cesium carbonate 27 mg 0.083 mmol 2.0 eq copper I iodide 0.79 mg 0.0042 mmol 0.10 eq and N N dimethylglycine 1.3 mg 0.013 mmol 0.30 eq were dissolved in DMF in a microwave vial and heated in a microwave reactor at 150 C. for 15 minutes. The reaction was filtered over Celite and washed with 5 methanol in DCM. The organics were concentrated and purified using reverse phase chromatography to afford 9.1 mg 56 of title compound as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.12 d J 4.3 Hz 1H 8.54 s 1H 8.33 d J 2.8 Hz 1H 7.77 7.73 m 2H 7.68 d J 3.0 Hz 1H 7.59 d J 4.3 Hz 1H 7.56 7.47 m 4H 7.34 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 7.12 d J 9.2 Hz 1H 2.49 s 3H ES MS M 1 390.4.

The following compounds were prepared in an analogous manner by first preparing the appropriate synthetic intermediate by use of the synthetic procedures indicated next to each compound 

Compound E 15 mg 0.042 mmol 1.0 eq 3 pyridinylboronic acid 11 mg 0.087 mmol 2.1 eq 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 3.0 mg 0.0042 mmol 0.10 eq and 1N sodium carbonate 0.21 mL 0.21 mmol 5.0 eq were dissolved in dimethoxyethane 0.6 mL in a microwave vial and heated at 150 C. for 20 minutes in a microwave reactor. The reaction was portioned between ethyl acetate and water and the layers separated. The aqueous phase was extracted with an additional portion of ethyl acetate and the combined organics were dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification by reverse phase chromatography afforded 10.1 mg 68 of the title compound as white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.21 d J 4.3 Hz 1H 8.96 d J 1.9 Hz 1H 8.62 m 2H 8.60 s 1H 8.17 dt J 8.0 1.7 Hz 1H 8.09 dd J 8.8 2.3 Hz 1H 7.81 7.78 m 2H 7.66 d J 4.3 Hz 1H 7.57 7.52 m 3H 7.16 d J 8.8 Hz 1H ES MS M 1 360.2.

The following compounds were prepared in an analogous manner by first preparing the appropriate synthetic intermediate by use of the synthetic procedures indicated next to each compound 

A solution of compound G 10 mg 0.032 mmol cis 2 6 dimethylmorpholine 5 L 0.039 mmol and acetic acid 4.6 L 0.081 mmol in dichloromethane 1 mL were stirred for one hour. To this mixture was added sodium triacetoxyborohydride 10.2 mg 0.048 mmol . After 16 hours the reaction was concentrated to dryness. Purification by reverse phase HPLC afforded 5 mg 38 of the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.23 d J 4.4 Hz 1H 8.55 s 1H 8.26 d J 1.8 Hz 1H 7.77 7.73 m 2H 7.65 dd J 8.7 2 Hz 1H 7.59 d J 4.4 Hz 1H 7.52 t J 8.68 8.76 2H 7.03 d J 8.68 1H 3.57 3.52 m 4H 2.65 d J 10.2 Hz 2H 1.01 d J 6.3 Hz 6H ES MS M 1 410.3.

The following compounds were prepared in an analogous manner by first preparing the appropriate synthetic intermediate by use of the synthetic procedures indicated next to each compound 

Compound E 30 mg 0.083 mmol 1.0 eq and cyanuric chloride 15 mg 0.083 mmol 1.0 eq were dissolved in DMF 0.5 mL and the reaction was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. The reaction was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate. The organic phase was dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification by reverse phase chromatography afforded 10.1 mg 68 of the title compound as white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.94 s 1H 8.30 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 7.86 dd J 9.0 2.4 Hz 1H 7.75 7.72 m 2H 7.53 t J 8.7 Hz 2H 6.96 d J 9.1 Hz 1H ES MS M 1 343.2.

Compound W 25 mg 0.073 mmol 1.0 eq N methyl N 3 pyridylmethyl amine 17 mg 0.15 mmol 2.0 eq cesium carbonate 33 mg 0.10 mmol 1.4 eq tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 5.3 mg 0.0058 mmol 0.080 eq and 4 5 bis diphenylphosphino 9 9 dimethylxanthene 5.1 mg 0.0087 mmol 0.12 eq were dissolved in toluene 0.5 mL in a sealed vial and heated at 110 C. overnight. The reaction was cooled filtered over Celite and washed with 5 methanol in DCM. The organics were concentrated and purified using reverse phase chromatography to afford 11.3 mg 40 of the title compound as a yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.65 s 1H 8.44 8.42 m 2H 7.70 7.67 m 2H 7.57 dt J 7.8 1.8 Hz 1H 7.48 t J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.33 7.32 m 2H 7.26 dd J 9.4 3.1 Hz 1H 6.83 d J 9.3 Hz 1H 4.72 s 2H 3.1 s 3H ES MS M 1 385.2.

GHEK293 cells stably expressing rat mGluwere plated in black walled clear bottomed poly D lysine coated 384 well plates in 20 L of assay medium DMEM containing 10 dialyzed FBS 20 mM HEPES and 1 mM sodium pyruvate at a density of 12K cells well. The cells were grown overnight at 37 C. in the presence of 5 CO. The next day medium was removed and the cells incubated with 20 L of 2.3 M Fluo 4 AM prepared as a 2.3 mM stock in DMSO and mixed in a 1 1 ratio with 10 w v pluronic acid F 127 and diluted in assay buffer Hank s balanced salt solution 20 mM HEPES and 2.5 mM probenecid for 45 minutes at 37 C. Dye was removed 20 L of assay buffer was added and the plate was incubated for 5 minutes at room temperature.

Ca flux was measured using the Functional Drug Screening System FDSS7000 Hamamatsu Japan . After establishment of a fluorescence baseline for about 3 seconds the compounds of the present invention were added to the cells and the response in cells was measured. 2.3 minutes later an ECconcentration of the mGlureceptor agonist glutamate was added to the cells and the response of the cells was measured for 1.9 minutes an ECconcentration of agonist was added and readings taken for an additional 1.7 minutes. All test compounds were dissolved and diluted to a concentration of 10 mM in 100 DMSO. Compounds were then serially diluted 1 3 in DMSO into 10 point concentration response curves transferred to daughter plates and further diluted into assay buffer to a 2 stock. Calcium fluorescence measures were recorded as fold over basal fluorescence raw data was then normalized to the maximal response to glutamate. Antagonism of the agonist response of the mGlureceptor in the present invention was observed as a decrease in response to nearly maximal concentrations of glutamate in the presence of compound compared to the response to glutamate in the absence of compound.

The raw data file containing all time points was used as the data source in the analysis template. This was saved by the FDSS as a tab delimited text file. Data were normalized using a static ratio function F F for each measurement of the total 360 values per well divided by each well s initial value. Data were then reduced to peak amplitudes Max Initial Min using a time range that starts approximately 3 seconds prior to the glutamate ECaddition and continues for approximately 90 seconds. This is sufficient time to capture the peak amplitude of the cellular calcium response. Individual amplitudes were expressed as ECby multiplying each amplitude by 100 and then dividing the product by the mean of the amplitudes derived from the glutamate EC treated wells. IC50 values for test compounds were generated by fitting the normalized values versus the log of the test compound concentration in mol L using a 4 parameter logistic equation where none of the parameters were fixed. Each of the three values collected at each concentration of test compound were weighted evenly.

A compound was designated as a negative allosteric modulator NAM if the compound showed a concentration dependent decrease in the glutamate ECaddition. For NAMs potency IC and maximum response Glu Max i.e. the amplitude of response in the presence of 30 M test compound as a percentage of the maximal response to glutamate are reported. For NAMs that show a decrease in the ECresponse but do not hit a plateau the average of the maximum response at a single concentration 30 M was determined Glu Max and potencies were reported as 10 000 nM . Compounds with no measurable activity are designated as 30 000 nM since the top concentration of compound tested in the assay is 30 M.

The results of these assays are shown in Table 1. The data in Table 1 demonstrates that the disclosed compounds are negative allosteric modulators of mGluand show high affinity for the mGlureceptor s . Data is from a single experiment unless otherwise noted. Data that is an average of two experiments is noted as n 2 while data that is an average of three or more experiments is presented as the average plus or minus the standard error of the mean.

It is understood that the foregoing detailed description and accompanying examples are merely illustrative and are not to be taken as limitations upon the scope of the invention which is defined solely by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Various changes and modifications to the disclosed embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Such changes and modifications including without limitation those relating to the chemical structures substituents derivatives intermediates syntheses compositions formulations or methods of use of the invention may be made without departing from the spirit and scope thereof.

