---

title: Signed application cards
abstract: A device that displays signed application cards. The device receives a card object that includes: an application function identifier that identifies an application function of a native application, a digital signature, and a certificate that comprises a public key. The device verifies the authenticity of the digital signature with the public key in the certificate. The device determines that the certificate is signed by a developer of the native application referenced by the card object. The device renders an application card on the display based on the information included in the card object. The application card includes a text string, an image, an audio, and/or an image. The device overlays an indicator onto the application card. The indicator indicates that the authenticity of the digital signature has been verified. The indicator also indicates that the developer of the native application authorized the rendering of the application card.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09614683&OS=09614683&RS=09614683
owner: Quixey, Inc.
number: 09614683
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160824
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 984 537 filed on Dec. 30 2015. The entire disclosure of the application referenced above is incorporated by reference.

Many mobile computing devices can display a graphical user interface that allows a user of the mobile computing device to enter a search query. Upon receiving the search query from the user the mobile computing device can transmit the search query to a search server. The search server can generate search results based on the search query. Upon generating the search results the search server can send the search results to the mobile computing device. The mobile computing device receives the search results and can display the search results on a display of the mobile computing device. Some mobile computing devices can display the search results in the form of a card.

One aspect of the disclosure provides a card server. The card server may include a network communication device a storage device and a processing device. The storage device may store a card data store and a key data store. The card data store may store card records. A card record may include a card record identifier ID and one or more data fields. The key data store may store a plurality of private keys. A private key may be associated with one or more card record IDs. The processing device may execute computer readable instructions that when executed by the processing device cause the processing device to receive a card request. The processing device may receive the card request from a mobile computing device. The card request may include a search query with one or more search terms.

The processing device may generate a consideration set of card records based on the search terms in the search query. The processing device may determine a relevance score for each card record in the consideration set. The processing device may select a card record from the consideration set based on the relevance scores for the card records in the consideration set. The processing device may retrieve the one or more data fields from the selected card record. The processing device may identify a private key in the key data store based on the card record ID of the selected card record. The processing device may generate a digital signature by signing the one or more data fields retrieved from the selected card record with the identified private key. The processing device may generate a card object that comprises the digital signature and the one of more data fields from the selected card record. The processing device may transmit the card object to the mobile computing device.

Another aspect of the disclosure provides a mobile computing device. The mobile computing device may include a display a memory e.g. a non transitory memory a transceiver and a computing processor e.g. one or more central processing units CPUs . The memory may store computer readable instructions and one or more native applications that are installed at the mobile computing device. The computing processor may execute computer readable instructions that when executed by the computing processor cause the computing processor to generate a card request. The card request may include a search query with one or more search terms. The computing processing can transmit the card request via the transceiver. The computing processor can transmit the card request to a card server.

The computing processor may receive a card object in response to transmitting the card request. The card object may include an application function identifier that identifies an application function in one of the native applications a digital signature and a certificate that comprises a public key. The computing processor may determine that the card object includes the digital signature. The computing processor may verify the authenticity of the digital signature with the public key in the certificate. The computing processor may determine that the certificate is signed by a developer of the native application referenced by the card object. The computing processor may render an application card on the display based on the information included in the card object. The application card may include a text string an image an audio and or an image. The computing processor may overlay an indicator onto the application card. The indicator may indicate that the authenticity of the digital signature has been verified. The indicator may also indicate that the developer of the native application authorized the rendering of the application card.

In some implementations the certificate may include one or more conditions. In such implementations verifying the authenticity of the digital signature may include determining that the conditions specified in the certificate are satisfied. In some examples one of the conditions may specify a value for a data field. In such examples verifying the authenticity of the digital signature may include determining whether the card object includes the value specified by the condition. In some scenarios one of the conditions may define a geographic perimeter. In such scenarios verifying the authenticity of the digital signature may include determining that a geographic location referenced by the card object is within the geographic perimeter defined by the condition.

The details of one or more implementations of the disclosure are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other aspects features and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

The present disclosure provides a system that may be used to render an application card at a mobile computing device. The mobile computing device may send a card request to a card server. The card request may include a search query. Upon transmitting the card request the mobile computing device can receive a card object. The card object can include information that the mobile computing device may utilize to render the application card. Additionally the card object may include a digital signature. The mobile computing device can verify the authenticity of the digital signature. Upon verifying the digital signature the mobile computing device can overlay an indicator on the application card to indicate the authenticity of the digital signature.

The card server may include a card data store and a key data store . The card data store stores various card records . A card record may include information that the card server and or the mobile computing device can utilize to render the application card . For example a card record may store information regarding a restaurant. A card record may include one or more data fields . The data fields may include information that can be displayed via a graphical user interface GUI element. For example a card record for a restaurant may include data fields that store the restaurant name the restaurant address the restaurant phone number etc. A data field may include a text string an image a video and or an audio.

A card record may also include an application function identifier ID that identifies a particular application function within a native application. For example an application function ID may identify a restaurant search function within a food ordering application. The application function ID may include a string that identifies the application function and provides access to the application function. For example the application function ID may include a uniform resource identifier URI a uniform resource locator URL and or an application resource identifier ARI . The application function ID may be referred to as an access mechanism.

The key data store stores various private keys . The key data store may also store certificates . Each certificate may be associated with a respective private key . Each certificate may include a public key not shown that corresponds with the respective private key . The card server may generate the private key and its corresponding public key based on a public key cryptography algorithm. The public key cryptography algorithm may utilize integer factorization discrete logarithms and or elliptic curve relationships to generate the private key and its corresponding public key. The card server may randomly e.g. pseudo randomly select a large number e.g. a large prime number and utilize a key generation algorithm e.g. RSA to generate the private key and its corresponding public key. Each private key may be associated with one or more card records and or with one or more application function IDs .

The card server generates the card object upon receiving the card request . To generate the card object the card server may identify a card record from the card data store based on the search query . Upon identifying the card record the card server retrieves information from the card record . For example the card server may retrieve the data fields and or the application function ID . The card server can identify a private key that is associated with the identified card record . The card server can cryptographically sign a hash of the retrieved information with the private key to generate a digital signature . The card server can write the retrieved information the digital signature and the certificate to a data container that represents the card object . Hence the card object may include the data fields the application function ID the digital signature and the certificate .

The mobile computing device receives the card object . The mobile computing device can render an application card based on the information included in the card object . For example the mobile computing device can display the data fields on the application card . The mobile computing device can utilize the application function ID to display the application card . For example the mobile computing device may display the application function identified by the application function ID within the application card .

The mobile computing device may display a signed indicator within an application card . The signed indicator may indicate that the digital signature included in the card object is valid. Additionally the signed indicator may indicate that the certificate has been signed by an entity e.g. an organization or a developer associated with the application function referenced by the application function ID . For example if an application card displays information regarding a hotel then the signed indicator may indicate that the certificate has been signed by the hotel owner. In the example of a first application card and a second application card include the signed indicator .

The mobile computing device may display an unsigned indicator within some application cards . The unsigned indicator may indicate that the card object that the mobile computing device utilized to render the application card did not include a digital signature . In the example of the third application card includes the unsigned indicator . In some scenarios the mobile computing device may filter out application cards that include the unsigned indicator . In some examples the mobile computing device can display a prompt when the user selects an application card that includes the unsigned indicator . The prompt may include a warning such as this card is unsigned this card is not from a trusted source or this card may not be official .

The mobile computing device may display an invalid signature indicator within some application cards . In the example of the fourth application card includes the invalid signature indicator . The invalid signature indicator may indicate that the digital signature was not valid. For example the digital signature may not have been generated with a private key that corresponds with the public key in the certificate included in the card object . Additionally or alternatively the invalid signature indicator may indicate that the certificate has not been signed by an entity associated with the application function that the application function ID identifies. For example the invalid signature indicator may indicate that the certificate in the card object has not been signed by a developer of the application function. In some examples the mobile computing device can display a prompt when the user selects an application card that includes the invalid signature indicator . The prompt may include a warning such as this card is not trusted this card is not from a trusted source this card is not official or this card is not authorized .

The mobile computing device may display a signed card option . The signed card option may include a user selectable check box. If the signed card option is selected then the mobile computing device may only display e.g. show application cards that include the signed indicator . For example the mobile computing device may only display the first application card and the second application card . In some implementations if the signed card option is selected the mobile computing device may display application cards with the signed indicator and the invalid signature indicator but not application cards with the unsigned indicator . For example the mobile computing device may display the first application card the second application card and the fourth application card but not the third application card .

The network communication device communicates with a network e.g. the network shown in . The network communication device may include a communication interface that performs wired communication e.g. via Ethernet Universal Serial Bus USB or fiber optic cables . The network communication device may perform wireless communication e.g. via Wi Fi Bluetooth Bluetooth Low Energy BLE Near Field Communications NFC ZigBee a cellular network or satellites . The network communication device may include a transceiver. The transceiver may operate in accordance with an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE specification e.g. IEEE 802.3 or IEEE 802.11 . The transceiver may operate in accordance with a 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP specification e.g. Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Long Term Evolution LTE or LTE Advanced . The transceiver may operate in accordance with a Universal Serial Bus USB specification e.g. via a USB port .

The storage device stores data. The storage device may include one or more computer readable storage mediums. For example the storage device may include solid state memory devices hard disk memory devices optical disk drives read only memory and or nanotube based storage devices. The storage device may be connected to the processing device via a bus and or a network. Different storage mediums within the storage device may be located at the same physical location e.g. in the same data center same rack or same housing . Different storage mediums of the storage device may be distributed e.g. in different data centers different racks or different housings . The storage device may store a card data store and a key data store .

The card data store stores card records . The card records store information that can be utilized to display the application cards at the mobile computing device . The card records may correspond with application states of various applications. For example the card records may correspond with application states of native applications that can be installed at mobile computing devices . The card records may correspond with application states of web applications e.g. with webpages of a website . In some implementations the card records may correspond with advertisements ads . In such implementations the card records may be referred to as ad records and the card data store may be referred to as an ad data store. A card record may include a card record ID an application function ID one or more data fields and or a key ID . The card record ID may include a string that identifies the card record .

The application function ID may refer to an application function that corresponds with the card record . Specifically the application function ID may include a string that identifies the corresponding application function and or provides access to the corresponding application function. An application function may refer to a capability of an application. For example a food ordering application may include an application function that allows a user to search for a restaurant by cuisine and or location. An application function may be associated with one or more application states. The application function ID may include a uniform resource identifier URI that identifies the corresponding application function. The application function ID may include a uniform resource locator URL for the corresponding application function. The URL may include a web URL or an application URL. The application function ID may include an application resource identifier ARI that identifies a resource e.g. an application function within an application. The application function ID may be referred to as an access mechanism for example because it provides access to a resource e.g. an application function .

The data fields may store information that the corresponding application state displays. For example if a card record corresponds with an application state that displays information regarding The Dark Knight movie then the card record may include data fields for the movie title the release year etc. Some of the data fields may store multiple values. Data fields that store multiple values may be referred to as multi value data fields e.g. a data field that stores names of actors that were casted in a movie . In the example of the data fields include a title an image and a description .

The key data store may store key records . A key record may include a key record ID a key ID a private key a public key a certificate and or one or more card record IDs . The key record ID may include a string that identifies the key record . The key ID may include a string that identifies the private key . The private key and the public key may be part of a public key cryptosystem. Specifically the private key and the public key may refer to a key pair that the card server may have generated based on an asymmetric key algorithm e.g. an RSA based algorithm . The private key may be referred to as a private signing key and the public key may be referred to as a public verification key. The card server can utilize a private key to generate a digital signature and the mobile computing device can utilize the public key to verify e.g. validate the digital signature .

The certificate may have been signed by a certification authority. The certification authority may refer to an entity that issues digital certificates. The certificate may certify the ownership of the public key . For example the certificate may certify that an operator of the card server owns the public key . The private key and the public key may be associated with one or more card records . The key record may include the card record IDs for the card records that are associated with the private key and the public key . The card server may utilize the private key to sign the information retrieved from the card records that are associated with the private key . In other words the card server may utilize different private keys to sign information retrieved from different card records . Alternatively the key record may include application function IDs that are associated with the private key and the card server may utilize the private key to sign the application function IDs that are associated with the private key .

The certificate may have been signed by an entity associated with a card record and or an application function. For example if the card record includes information regarding a hotel then the certificate may have been signed by the hotel owner. The certificate may have been signed by a developer of the application function referenced by the application function ID in the card record . For example if the card record references a restaurant search function in a food ordering application then the certificate may have been signed by the developer of the food ordering application.

The processing device may include a collection of one or more computing processors that execute computer readable instructions. The computing processors of the processing device may operate independently or in a distributed manner. The computing processors may be connected via a bus and or a network. The computing processors may be located in the same physical device e.g. same housing . The computing processors may be located in different physical devices e.g. different housings for example in a distributed computing system . A computing processor may include physical central processing units pCPUs . A pCPU may execute computer readable instructions to implement virtual central processing units vCPUs . The processing device may execute computer readable instructions that correspond with a card record selector a signing key determiner a digital signature generator and or a card object generator .

The card record selector selects one or more card records from the card data store based on the search query . In some implementations the card data store may include a data structure e.g. an inverted index that maps keywords to the card record IDs . In such implementations the card record selector can query the data structure with the search terms of the search query . In return the card record selector can receive the card record ID s for the card record s that correspond with the search query . The card records that correspond with the card record IDs that the card record selector receives may be referred to as a consideration set of card records .

In some implementations the card record selector may tokenize the search query prior to selecting the card records from the card data store . Tokenizing the search query may refer to generating parsed tokens from the search terms of the search query . The card record selector can use a tokenizer to tokenize the search query . The tokenizer can use various techniques to generate the tokens. In some examples the tokenizer generates the tokens by splitting the characters of the search query with a given delimiter e.g. . The card server can perform various other operations to the search query prior to selecting the card records . For example the card server may perform stemming by reducing the words in the search query to their stem word or root word. The card server can perform synonymization by identifying synonyms of search terms in the search query . The card server may also identify misspelled words and replace the misspelled words with the correct spelling. Some of the operations described herein may be referred to as cleaning the search query .

In some implementations the card record selector can score the selected card records . Scoring the selected card record may refer to generating a relevance score for the selected card record . The relevance score for the selected card record may indicate how relevant the selected card record is to the search query . The card record selector can compute a set of scoring features for the selected card record and determine a relevance score for the selected card record based on the scoring features. The scoring features may include record scoring features query scoring features and or record query scoring features.

A record scoring feature may be associated with a card record . A record scoring feature may include data associated with an application function e.g. an application state that corresponds with the card record . For example a record scoring feature may include values from the one or more data fields . A record scoring feature may include parameters related to the application state that corresponds with the card record . A record scoring feature may include data that indicates a popularity of the corresponding application state. For example a record scoring feature may indicate a number of times that the card record has been utilized to generate an application card at a mobile computing device . A record scoring feature may indicate a rating of the corresponding application state e.g. a number of stars associated with the application state . A record scoring feature may include a Boolean value that indicates whether the card record is associated with a key ID for a private key . In other words a record scoring feature for a card record may indicate whether information retrieved from the card record can be signed with a private key .

A query scoring feature may be associated with the search query . A query scoring feature may include data associated with the search query . Example query scoring features may include a number of words in the search query a popularity of the search query and or an expected frequency of the words in the search query . A record query scoring feature may include data that may be generated based on data associated with the selected card record and the search query . A record query scoring feature may include parameters that indicate a number of matches between the terms of the search query and the selected card record .

The card record selector can score the card records based on the scoring features. The card record selector may include a machine learned model s e.g. a supervised learning model . The machine learned model may be configured to receive the scoring features and score the card records based the scoring features. Specifically the card record selector may determine a feature vector that includes the record scoring feature s the query scoring feature s and or the record query scoring feature s . The card record selector may use the feature vector as an input for a machine learned regression model to calculate a score for the card record . The machine learned regression model may include a set of decision trees e.g. gradient boosted decision trees . The machine learned regression model may include a logistic probability formula. A machine learned task can be implemented as a semi supervised learning task where a portion of the training data is labeled with human curated scores and the remaining training data may be used without human curated scores.

In some implementations the card record selector can filter out card records based on the relevance scores for the card records . For example the card record selector can filter out a card record if the relevance score for the card record is below a threshold relevance score. In some implementations the card record selector may filter out all card records except a threshold number of card records with the highest relevance score. For example the card record selector may filter out all card records except the card record with the highest relevance score.

In some implementations the card record selector may select a card record without explicitly receiving the card request . For example the card record selector may periodically select one or more card records based on contextual data associated with the mobile computing device . The card record selector may utilize one or more application programming interfaces APIs to gather the contextual data associated with the mobile computing device . The contextual data may include sensor measurements such as a current location of the mobile computing device an ambient temperature an ambient lighting level etc. The contextual data may also include application data associated with native applications that are installed at the mobile computing device . For example the contextual data may include upcoming calendar events etc.

In some implementations the card record selector may select a card record that is currently trending. The card data store may store information that indicates the popularity of the card records . The card record selector may select the most popular card record . Specifically the card record selector may select the card record with the highest popularity score of the highest trending score. In some implementations the card record selector may select a card record based on financial incentives e.g. bid prices that are associated with the card record . In such implementations the card records may be referred to as ad records. Moreover some ad records may be associated with a bid price. The card record selector may select the card record that is associated with the highest bid price.

The signing key determiner identifies a private key for signing the information retrieved from the selected card record . The selected card record may include a key ID for a private key that the card server may utilize to sign the information from the card record . The signing key determiner can retrieve the key ID from the selected card record . In some examples the card data store may include an inverted index that maps the card record IDs to the key IDs . In such examples the card data store can query the inverted index with the card record ID for the selected card record and receive the key ID for a private key that can be utilized to sign the information from the card record . Upon receiving the key ID the signing key determiner can retrieve the corresponding private key from the key data store . Alternatively the signing key determiner may query the key data store with the card record ID for the selected card record and receive the private key that is associated with the card record ID .

In some implementations the signing key determiner may query the key data store with the application function ID associated with the selected card record and receive the private key that is associated with application function ID . In some implementations the signing key determiner may query the key data store with a specific data field e.g. the title and or the description . For example a card record may stores information regarding a hotel. In this example the title may include the hotel name. The hotel name may be associated with a specific private key and the corresponding certificate may have been digitally signed by the hotel owner. In other words the hotel owner may have acted as a certification authority and certified the certificate that corresponds with the private key associated with the hotel name. In some implementations a card record may be associated with multiple private keys . In such implementations the signing key determiner can retrieve all the private keys that are associated with the card record . For example the application function ID may be associated with a first private key and the title may be associated with a second private key .

The digital signature generator generates the digital signature . The digital signature generator can hash the data fields and or the application function ID from the selected card record to generate a digest. Upon generating the digest the digital signature generator can sign the digest with the private key identified by the signing key determiner . The digital signature generator may utilize any suitable algorithm for hashing the data fields and or the application function ID . For example the digital signature generator may utilize the MD5 algorithm the SHA 1 algorithm or the SHA 2 algorithm for generating the digest. In some implementations the digital signature generator may generate the digital signature by directly signing the data fields and or the application function ID e.g. instead of signing the digest .

The card object generator generates the card object . The card object includes information from the selected card record . For example the card object may include the data fields and or the application function ID from the selected card record . The card object may also include the digital signature . Moreover the card object may include the certificate that corresponds with the private key that the card server utilized to generate the digital signature . The card object generator can instantiate a data container that represents the card object . The data container may include a JSON JavaScript Object Notation object an XML Extensible Markup Language file etc. Upon instantiating the data container the card object generator can write the data fields the application function ID the digital signature and or the certificate to the data container. Upon generating the card object the card object generator can transmit the card object to the mobile computing device via the network communication device .

At the card server receives a card request from a mobile computing device. Receiving the card request may include receiving a search query with one or more search terms at . The search query in the card request may be referred to as a current search query. Receiving the card request may also include receiving contextual data at . The contextual data may include sensor values e.g. a location of the mobile computing device application IDs that identify the native applications that are installed at the mobile computing device etc.

At the card server generates a consideration set of card records from a card data store based on the search terms in the search query. In some implementations the card data store may include a data structure that maps keywords to card record IDs that identify the card records. The data structure may include an index e.g. an inverted index a lookup table etc. The card server can query the data structure with the search terms of the current search query at . Upon querying the data structure with the current search query the card server can receive the card record IDs for card records from the card data store at . The card record IDs that the card server receives identify card records that may be relevant to the current search query. In some implementations the card server may tokenize the current search query and or clean the search query as described in relation to .

In some implementations the card server may generate the consideration set based on the contextual data. The card server may utilize the contextual data to generate the consideration set in addition to or instead of the search query. The card records may be associated with metadata. The card server can include a card record in the consideration set if the metadata matches the contextual data. For example a card record may be associated with a location. In this example the card server may include the card record in the consideration set if the location associated with the card record is within a threshold distance of the location of the mobile computing device indicated by the contextual data.

At the card server scores the card records in the consideration set. Scoring the card records may include determining a set of scoring features at . Upon determining the scoring features the card server can determine a relevance score for the card record based on the scoring features at . As described herein determining the scoring features may include computing a query scoring feature a record scoring feature and or a record query scoring feature. Determining the relevance score may include utilizing a machine learned model that receives the scoring features for a card record as an input and outputs the relevance score for the card record. In some implementations the card server may select a particular number of card records from the consideration set based on the relevance scores of the card records in the consideration set at . For example the card server may select one two or three of the card records with the highest relevance scores.

At the card server retrieves information from the selected card record. The card server can query the card data store with the card record ID for the selected card record at . Upon querying the card data store with the card record ID the card server may receive information that is stored in the card record at . For example the card server may retrieve the one or more data fields that are stored in the selected card record. Alternatively or additionally the card server may retrieve the application function ID from the selected card record.

At the card server identifies a private key for generating a digital signature. As described herein the card server may include a key data store that stores various private keys. Different private keys may be associated with different card records. The card server can query the key data store with the card record ID for the selected card record at . At the card server may receive a key ID for a private key that is associated with the selected card record. The card server can utilize the key ID to retrieve the private key from the key data store at . If the card server selected multiple card records then the card server may retrieve multiple private keys.

At the card server generates a digital signature with the private key. The card server may hash the application function ID and or the data fields at . Hashing the application function ID and or the data fields may result in a digest. The card server may utilize any hashing techniques for generating the digest. For example the card server may utilize the MD5 algorithm the SHA 1 algorithm or the SHA 2 algorithm to generate the digest. Upon generating the digest the card server can sign e.g. cryptographically sign the digest with the private key at . The card server may utilize any signing algorithm for generating the digital signature. For example the card server may utilize RSA or any variant thereof to generate the digital signature.

At the card server generates a card object. Generating the card object may include instantiating a data container that represents the card object at . The data container may include a JSON object an XML file etc. The card server can write information from the selected card record into the data container at . The information may include the data fields and or the application function ID. At the card server writes the digital signature to the card to the data container. At the card server transmits the card object to the mobile computing device.

In some implementations the card server may transmit multiple card objects to the mobile computing device. Each card object may include a digital signature. The card server may have generated the digital signatures by utilizing different private keys. For example the card server may generate a first digital signature for a first card object by utilizing a first private key and a second digital signature for a second card object by utilizing a second private key. In this example the first card object may include a first application function ID and the second card object may include a second application function ID. Moreover the first private key may be associated with the first application function ID and the second private key may be associated with the second application function ID.

At the mobile computing device transmits the card request via a transceiver of the mobile computing device. The mobile computing device may transmit the card request to a card server. The card server may be part of a search system. At the mobile computing device receives a card object. The mobile computing device may receive the card object in response to transmitting the card request. Alternatively the mobile computing device may receive the card object without transmitting the card request. For example the mobile computing device may receive the card object periodically e.g. once a day or when a triggering condition is satisfied e.g. when the mobile computing device is inside a defined geographic perimeter .

At the mobile computing device determines whether the card object includes a digital signature. If the card object includes a digital signature then the mobile computing device verifies the digital signature at . If the card object includes a certificate the mobile computing device may retrieve a public key from the certificate and utilize that public key to verify the digital signature. Alternatively the mobile computing device may retrieve an application function ID specified in the card object. The mobile computing device may identify a public key that is associated with the application function ID specified in the card object. For example the mobile computing device may store public keys in association with application function IDs. Alternatively the mobile computing device can query an external certificate store for a certificate that corresponds with the application function ID indicated by the card object. The mobile computing device can utilize a signature verifying algorithm indicated in the certificate to verify the digital signature.

At the mobile computing device may determine whether the certificate is signed by a particular entity. Specifically the mobile computing device may determine whether the certificate is signed by an entity that is associated with the information included in the card object. For example the mobile computing device may determine whether the certificate is signed by a developer of the application function identified in the card object. In some implementations the card object may include a data field that refers to an organization e.g. a company . The mobile computing device can determine whether the certificate is signed by an owner of the organization. For example the card object may include a data field that refers to a chain of restaurants. In this example the mobile computing device may determine whether the owner of the restaurant chain has signed the certificate.

At the mobile computing device renders an application card based on the information included in the card object. In some implementations the application card may include a title an image and a description that the mobile computing device retrieves from the card object. In some implementations the mobile computing device may retrieve the application function ID from the card object and present the application function associated with that application function. Specifically the mobile computing device may include a card renderer that accepts an application function ID and renders an application card that corresponds with the identified application function. For example the mobile computing device can launch a native application directly into the application function identified by the application function ID.

At the mobile computing device displays an indicator on the application card. The indicator may indicate that the card object which the mobile computing device utilized to render the application card includes a digital signature. The indicator may indicate that the application card is digitally signed. The indicator may indicate that the mobile computing device successfully verified the digital signature. In other words the indicator may indicate that the digital signature is valid. The indicator may be a symbol that the mobile computing device can overlay onto the application card. For example the indicator may include an image e.g. a lock in a locked state or a text string e.g. signed . The indicator may include a formatting style for the application card. For example the indicator may include a background color e.g. a blue ribbon a font style e.g. bold face all caps etc. or the like.

If the card object includes the indicator the mobile computing device may retrieve the indicator from the card object. Alternatively the mobile computing device may retrieve the indicator from a memory of the mobile computing device. The mobile computing device may store a signed indicator e.g. an image of a locked lock an unsigned indicator e.g. an image of an unlocked lock and an invalid signature indicator e.g. an image of a broken lock . If the digital signature is valid then the mobile computing device may display the signed indicator. In some implementations the mobile computing device may display e.g. may only display the signed indicator upon verifying that the certificate is signed by a particular entity. For example the mobile computing device may display e.g. only display the signed indicator if the certificate is signed by a developer of the application function that corresponds with the application card. If the card object does not include a digital signature the mobile computing device may display the unsigned indicator. If the digital signature is not valid the mobile computing device may display the invalid signature indicator. In some implementations the mobile computing device may display the invalid signature indicator if the certificate is not signed by the application developer e.g. even if the digital signature is valid .

In some implementations the mobile computing device may accept a filtering option from a user of the mobile computing device. For example the filtering option may include a user selectable option to display signed application cards. The mobile computing device can detect when the signed card option is selected. Upon detecting that the signed card option is selected the mobile computing device may display application cards with the signed indicator and not display application cards with the unsigned indicator or the invalid signature indicator.

In some implementations the indicator may indicate when the digital signature was generated. The card object may include a timestamp that indicates when the digital signature was generated. In some examples the indicator can include the timestamp. In some scenarios the indicator may indicate whether the digital signature was generated recently e.g. within a threshold time period of a current time . If the digital signature was generated recently then the color of the indicator may be green. If the digital signature was generated a long time ago e.g. more than ten years ago then the color of the indicator may be red.

In some implementations the certificate may include one or more conditions. The conditions may indicate scenarios under which a digital signature generated by a corresponding private key is valid. The conditions may be related to the information included in the card object. Specifically the conditions may be related to the information that is signed. For example a condition may specify that the card object include a card title field with a specific value. In this example the mobile computing device can determine whether the card object includes the specific value specified in the certificate. If the card object includes the value specified in the certificate then the mobile computing device can display the signed indicator. However if the card object does not include the value specified in the certificate then the mobile computing device can display the invalid signature indicator.

In some scenarios a condition may define a geographic perimeter e.g. a country a state a city etc. . The condition may specify that any geographic locations indicated by the card object be within the geographic perimeter in order for the digital signature to be valid. In such scenarios the mobile computing device can determine whether the card object refers to any geographic locations. For example the mobile computing device may determine whether the card object includes a location data field that specifies a geographic location e.g. a postal address . If the card object includes a location data field then the mobile computing device can determine whether the location value of the location data field is within the geographic perimeter specified in the certificate. If the location value is within the geographic perimeter specified in the certificate the mobile computing device can determine that the digital signature is valid. Hence the mobile computing device may display the signed card indicator in the application card. However if the location value is outside the geographic perimeter specified in the certificate then the mobile computing device can determine that the digital signature is invalid. Hence the mobile computing device may display the invalid signature indicator on the application card.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic and or optical circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium and computer readable medium refer to any computer program product non transitory computer readable medium apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

Implementations of the subject matter and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Moreover subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a computer readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. The computer readable medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage substrate a memory device a composition of matter effecting a machine readable propagated signal or a combination of one or more of them. The terms data processing apparatus computing device and computing processor encompass all apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer or multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of one or more of them. A propagated signal is an artificially generated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus.

A computer program also known as an application program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio player a Global Positioning System GPS receiver to name just a few. Computer readable media suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user one or more aspects of the disclosure can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. LCD liquid crystal display monitor or touch screen for displaying information to the user and optionally a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending web pages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

One or more aspects of the disclosure can be implemented in a computing system that includes a backend component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a frontend component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such backend middleware or frontend components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN an inter network e.g. the Internet and peer to peer networks e.g. ad hoc peer to peer networks .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In some implementations a server transmits data e.g. an HTML page to a client device e.g. for purposes of displaying data to and receiving user input from a user interacting with the client device . Data generated at the client device e.g. a result of the user interaction can be received from the client device at the server.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the disclosure or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular implementations of the disclosure. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable sub combination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a sub combination or variation of a sub combination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multi tasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results.

