---

title: Removable media tray having a media restraint with sliding cams and pivoting latching cams operable without the use of pinching
abstract: A media restraint for a removable media tray and slidably operable without the use of a pinching force. The media restraint slidably positionable on a track in a removable media tray and is operable without pinching. A pair of pivoting latching cams are used to engage the media restraint to the track and have serrated portions pivotally mounted to a bottom of the media restraint. The media restraint is operable by a finger of the user applying a downward force to an actuator that spreads two cam plates apart which in turn pivot the pair of latching cams to release the media restraint from the track and allowing it to be moved along the track. Upon removal of the downward force, a biasing member lifts the actuator to bring the two cam plates back to their first positions thereby pivoting the pair of latching cams back to reengage with the track.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09580258&OS=09580258&RS=09580258
owner: Lexmark International, Inc.
number: 09580258
owner_city: Lexington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160304
---
The present disclosure is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 15 060 860 entitled REMOVABLE MEDIA TRAY HAVING A MEDIA RESTRAINT WITH LATCHING PLUNGER OPERABLE WITHOUT THE USE OF PINCHING filed Mar. 4 2016 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 15 060 868 entitled REMOVABLE MEDIA TRAY HAVING A MEDIA RESTRAINT WITH TRANSLATING LATCHING CAMS OPERABLE WITHOUT THE USE OF PINCHING filed Mar. 4 2016 each assigned to the assignee of the present disclosure.

The field relates generally to media input feed systems for an imaging device having a removable media tray with an adjustable media restraint.

In 1998 Congress amended the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 29 U.S.C. 794 d to require Federal agencies to make their electronic and information technology accessible to people with disabilities. Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act applies to all federal agencies when they develop procure maintain or use electronic and information technology. Under Section 508 federal agencies must give disabled employees and members of the public access to information that is comparable to access available to others. These provisions apply to operable controls which are defined as components of a product that require physical contact for normal operation. Operable controls include but are not limited to media restraints. Operable controls are to be operable with one hand and not require tight grasping pinching or twisting of the wrist. Thus under these requirements the media restraint needs to be operable without the use of a pinching force.

Media restraints in removable media trays are typically provided along a bottom and side edge of a media area within the removable media tray for holding the media in place for feeding into an imaging device. The media restraints are moveable along tracks in the removable media tray to accommodate different media sizes. These media restraints are operated by a user pinching an actuation member or lever to release the media restraint from engagement with the track and while still pinching the actuation member or lever moving the media restraints to a new position in the removable media tray.

It would be advantageous to have a media restraint that can be operated without the use of a pinching force. It would be further advantageous that such a media restraint would also be moveable using a single finger.

Disclosed is a removable media tray having a media restraint that is operable without the use of a pinching force. The removable media tray comprises a bottom surface for holding media to be fed to the imaging device a track having a plurality of teeth along a length of the track and positioned on the bottom surface and a media restraint slidably engageable with the track. The media restraint includes a bottom plate having a first opening therethrough a front plate and a rear plate each depending from the bottom plate and a latching mechanism. The latching mechanism includes an actuator first and second sliding cam plates first and second latching cams and a biasing member. The actuator is slidably received between the front and rear plates and has a first position adjacent the top plate. The actuator has a vertical member and a horizontal member attached to a bottom end of the vertical member and extending outwardly from each side of the vertical member. An upper end of the vertical member has a button depending therefrom and aligned with the second opening. The horizontal member has a first and a second cam follower depending therefrom. The first sliding cam plate has a first angled slot and a first pivot member and the second sliding cam plate has a second angled slot and a second pivot member. The first and the second sliding cam plates are vertically disposed such that the first and the second cam followers are received into and are slidable along the first and the second slots with the first and the second cam followers being adjacent an upper end of the first and the second slots when the actuator is in its first position. The first and second latching cams each have a serrated portion engaging with the track and are pivotally mounted to the bottom plate at respective first ends. The first and second latching cams have a first and a second slot respectively at respective second ends with the slots receiving therein the first and second pivot members extending through the first opening. The first and second latching cams have respective first positions being engaged with the track when the actuator is in its first position. The biasing member biases the actuator and the first and the second latching cams in their respective first positions.

Upon application of a user supplied downwardly directed force to the button the actuator moves from its first position and translates downwardly with the first and second cam follower sliding down the first and second slots pivoting the first and second latching cams about their respective first ends and away from their respective first positions and moving the serrated portions of the first and the second latching cams away from the track allowing the media restraint to be translated along the track. When the downwardly directed force is removed the biasing member returns the actuator and the first and second latching cams to their respective first positions.

It is to be understood that the present disclosure is not limited in its application to the details of construction and the arrangement of components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. The present disclosure is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced or of being carried out in various ways. Also it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. As used herein the terms having containing including comprising and the like are open ended terms that indicate the presence of stated elements or features but do not preclude additional elements or features. The articles a an and the are intended to include the plural as well as the singular unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. The use of including comprising or having and variations thereof herein is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional items.

Terms such as about and the like have a contextual meaning are used to describe various characteristics of an object and have their ordinary and customary meaning to persons of ordinary skill in the pertinent art. Terms such as about and the like in a first context mean approximately to an extent as understood by persons of ordinary skill in the pertinent art and in a second context are used to describe various characteristics of an object and in such second context mean within a small percentage of as understood by persons of ordinary skill in the pertinent art.

Unless limited otherwise the terms connected coupled and mounted and variations thereof herein are used broadly and encompass direct and indirect connections couplings and mountings. In addition the terms connected and coupled and variations thereof are not restricted to physical or mechanical connections or couplings. Spatially relative terms such as left right top bottom front back rear side under below lower over upper and the like are used for ease of description to explain the positioning of one element relative to a second element. These terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to different orientations than those depicted in the figures. Relative positional terms may be used herein. For example superior means that an element is above another element. Conversely inferior means that an element is below or beneath another element. Further terms such as first second and the like are also used to describe various elements regions sections etc. and are also not intended to be limiting. Where possible like terms refer to like elements throughout the description. A plurality of different structural components may be utilized to implement the media restraint of the present disclosure. Furthermore and as described in subsequent paragraphs the specific mechanical configurations illustrated in the drawings are intended to exemplify embodiments of the present disclosure and that other alternative mechanical configurations are possible.

 Media or media sheet refers to a material that receives a printed image or with a document to be scanned a material containing a printed image. The media is said to move along a media path a media branch and a media path extension from an upstream location to a downstream location as it moves from the media trays to the output area of the imaging system. For a top feed option tray the top of the option tray is downstream from the bottom of the option tray. Conversely for a bottom feed option tray the top of the option tray is upstream from the bottom of the option tray. As used herein the leading edge of the media is that edge which first enters the media path and the trailing edge of the media is that edge that last enters the media path. Depending on the orientation of the media in a media tray the leading trailing edges may be the short edge of the media or the long edge of the media in that most media is rectangular. As used herein the term media width refers to the dimension of the media that is transverse to the direction of the media path. The term media length refers to the dimension of the media that is aligned to the direction of the media path. Media process direction describes the movement of media within the imaging system and is generally means from an input toward an output of the imaging device. The terms spring seat or spring mount are used interchangeably.

Option assemblies may be removed or added to the stack. As each option assembly is added the media path is extended. The option assemblies are stackable allowing one or more option assemblies to be used with a single imaging device . An additional option assembly is typically positioned on top of the uppermost option assembly in the stack. Typically each option assembly may contain a different type of media such as letterhead or a different size such as A4 or a larger quantity of the same media type that is found in the removable media tray integrated into imaging device . Each removable media tray is sized to contain a stack of media sheets that will receive color and or monochrome images. Each removable media tray may be sized to hold the same number of media sheets or may be sized to hold different quantities of media sheets. Example media sizes include but are not limited to A6 8 11 A4 and 11 17 . In some instances the removable media tray in imaging device may hold a lesser equal or greater quantity of media than a removable media tray found in an option assembly .

Referring to removable media tray is shown. Removable media tray is sized to hold approximately 550 pages of 20 pound media which has a media stack height of about 59 mm. Removable media tray has a front wall side walls and a rear wall depending from a bottom . Media storage area is generally defined by front wall and side walls and bottom . Provided in each removable media tray are one or more adjustable media restraints shown to be placed at a rear and a side edge of the media storage area to accommodate different media widths and lengths. A handle is provided in front wall for removing and inserting removable media tray into imaging device or option assembly .

Provided on the bottom of removable media tray is a track on which media restraint travels and latches. The insets in show two configurations of the track . The left inset shows a track A having a plurality of horizontal serrations or teeth across the top A thereof. Track A is also illustrated as having two parallel sections each having a plurality of horizontal serrations . The right inset shows a track B having a plurality of vertical serrations or teeth along at least one of its sides. As shown serrations are provided on each of its sides B B . Media restraint engages with the track using a later described latching mechanism that engages with serrations or serrations . One or more guide rails may also be provided on the bottom for guiding the media restraint as it is moved between positions along track .

Referring to media restraint has a bottom plate which travels along track B and guide rails . Channels and are provided in the undersurface of bottom plate and are sized to receive track B and guide rails respectively. Depending from bottom plate are a front plate and a rear plate that are joined by a top plate . A support plate is shown attached to the undersurface of bottom plate by fasteners . A latching mechanism is mounted between the front and rear plates and is used to engage the media restraint to the track B. An opening is provided in top plate to access latching mechanism . Top plate may be integrally molded as part of rear plate or as part of front plate . Rear plate is attached to front plate by one or more fasteners . Four fasteners are shown.

Referring to latching mechanism is shown. Latching mechanism includes an actuator a first and a second sliding cam plate A B a first and a second latching cam A B and a biasing member . Actuator is slidably received between the front and rear plates in recess see for example and has a first position adjacent to the top plate . The actuator has a vertical member and a horizontal member attached to a bottom end of the vertical member and extending outwardly from each side of the vertical member in an inverted capital T configuration. An upper end of the vertical member has a button depending therefrom and aligned with the opening in top plate see . Provided adjacent to the upper end of vertical member is a spring seat for biasing member . Button has a concave surface for receiving a fingertip of a user of the media restraint . A first and a second cam follower A B shown in are provided adjacent the ends of horizontal member . The first and second cam followers A B are illustrated as being cylinders projecting parallel to bottom plate and into recess .

First and second sliding cam plates A B are positioned vertically and adjacent to horizontal member . First and second sliding cam plates A B each have first and second angled slots A B arranged in a V shaped pattern. First and second slots A B are sized to slidably receive respective first and second cam followers A B. First and second pivot members A B downwardly project from the bottom of sliding cam plates A B. First and second sliding cam plates A B are mirror images of one another about track B or vertical member .

First and second sliding cam plates A B are respectively mounted on and connected to first and second latching cams A B via first and second pivot members A B as seen in that are received into corresponding slots A B provided near respective first ends A B of first and second latching cams A B. First and second sliding cam plates A B are translatable within opening provided in bottom plate . Positioned about track B or vertical member first latching cam A and first sliding cam plate A are configured in a mirror image arrangement with second latching cam B and second sliding cam plate B. First and second latching cams A B are planar.

Positioned between first and second ends A A of first latching cam A is a serrated portion A which engages with track B. Positioned between first and second ends B B of second latching cam B is a serrated portion B which engages with track B. First and second pivot pins A B are provided adjacent to respective second ends A B of first and second latching cams A B. First and second pivot pins A B are received into respective first and second openings A B provided in support plate or in bottom plate see allowing the first and second latching cams A B to pivot with respect to track B.

Shown in is the mounting of biasing member shown as coil spring on actuator . A spring seat depending from front plate is positioned below the spring seat at the top or upper end of vertical member . Biasing member is mounted between spring seats . Posts may be provided on spring seats respectively and received into the respective ends of coil spring keeping it in position during use of latching mechanism . Shown below spring seat is an upper stop that engages with an upper stop shown as a notch on vertical member to limit upper travel of vertical member . Provided below upper stop on front plate is a lower stop that will engage with a lower stop arm extending from vertical member below upper stop . Lower stops halt further downward travel of vertical member when actuator is depressed.

Operation of media restraint will be described with reference to . In rear and top plates have been removed to show latching mechanism positioned within a recess provided in front plate . In latching mechanism is shown in an engaged position with track B while in latching mechanism is shown in a disengaged position with respect to track B.

Referring to first and second latching cams A B are shown in their respective first positions engaged with track B and actuator is shown in its first position. At this first position first and second cam followers A B are in the upper portion of first and second slots A B in first and second sliding cam plates A B respectively. First and second sliding cam plates A B are translatable within opening provided in bottom plate . First and second latching cams A B are mirror images of one another and have a serrated portions A B that engage first and second sides B B respectively of track B. As shown latching cams A B are plates positioned below and parallel to bottom plate . The second ends A B of first and second latching cams A B are shown pivotally attached to support plate . First and second pivot pins A B are provided adjacent to second ends A B respectively and are received into corresponding openings A B in support plate or directly into openings A B provided in bottom plate see . Alternatively as shown in an opening may be provided in second ends A. B such as opening shown in second end B that receives a pin such as pin provided on support plate . In lieu of pin as also shown in a fastener may be used to pivotally attach the first and second latching cams A B to support plate or bottom plate . Biasing member biases actuator in its first position which in turn through cam followers A B moves sliding cam plates A B into their respective first positions which in turn moves latching cams A B into their respective first positions.

Referring to first and second latching cams A B are shown in their respective second positions disengaged from track B. Upon application of a user supplied downwardly directly force F as indicated by the black arrow in to button actuator is downwardly translated from its first position compressing coil spring . First and second cam followers A B move downward from the upper portion of first and second slots A B respectively causing first and second sliding cam plates A B to translate and separate. First and second pivot members A B in turn cause first and second latching cams A B to pivot about pivot pins A B respectively. This pivoting action disengages serrated portions A B from track B without the use of a pinching force allowing media restraint is be repositioned along track B. Upon removal of the user supplied downward force F biasing member returns actuator first and second sliding cam plates A B and first and second latching cams A B to their respective first positions. By applying the downward force F at an angle with respect to vertical in the desired direction of movement as shown in the user is able to disengage and move the media restraint along the track B with their finger without the use of pinching.

Referring now to various mounting arrangements for stops and spring seats are schematically illustrated. In stops S S S are shown mounted on the front plate bottom plate and rear plate respectively. Stop S is shown depending from the bottom of actuator . Spring seats ST ST are used for seating biasing members in media restraint . In spring seats ST ST ST are shown mounted on the front plate bottom plate and rear plate respectively. Spring seat ST is shown depending from the actuator . Post P may be provided on springs seats ST ST. Post P is shown depending from bottom plate . Posts P P may be used to hold biasing members on their spring seats. The number and location of the stops spring seats and posts are a matter of design choice and the locations shown in the figures are for the purpose of illustration and not limitation and similarly for the number and mounting of the biasing members.

For the disclosed embodiments of the media restraint front plate is shown to have the recess into which the latching mechanism is mounted. As would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art the latching mechanism may be mounted to the rear plate or some components may be mounted to the front plate and others to the rear plate . The mounting arrangement for the latching mechanism is a matter of design choice and the configurations shown should not be taken as limiting. For media restraint the mounting of bottom plate front plate rear plate and top plate to one another is a matter of design choice and the configuration shown should not be viewed as limiting.

The foregoing description of several methods and an embodiment of the present disclosure have been presented for purposes of illustration. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present disclosure to the precise steps and or forms disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above description. It is intended that the scope of the present disclosure be defined by the claims appended hereto.

