---

title: Semantic application logging and analytics
abstract: A system for managing dictionaries, such as an application dictionary and a domain dictionary, and for adding entries to a data log is described herein. The system may, in response to a determination that an event occurs at an application, determine that the application uses a first concept name from the application dictionary to describe the event. An entry for the event may be added to a data log for the application. The entry may also include the first concept name from the application dictionary. A mapping of the first concept name from the application dictionary to a second concept name from the domain dictionary may be generated. In some aspects, the data log may be sent to a data log analysis system capable of accessing the domain dictionary.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09442915&OS=09442915&RS=09442915
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 09442915
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160218
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 296 143 filed on Jun. 4 2014 and entitled SEMANTIC APPLICATION LOGGING AND ANALYTICS which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 801 286 filed on Mar. 13 2013 and entitled ENTERPRISE CONCEPT DEFINITION MANAGEMENT which claims priority to Provisional Patent App. No. 61 740 200 filed on Dec. 20 2012 and entitled ENTERPRISE CONCEPT DEFINITION MANAGEMENT. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 296 143 also claims priority to Provisional Patent App. No. 61 955 280 filed Mar. 19 2014 and entitled SEMANTIC APPLICATION LOGGING AND ANALYTICS. The entirety of each of the four aforementioned applications is herein incorporated by reference.

Aspects described herein relates in general to electronic dictionaries and in particular to maintaining consistent definitions for entries in an electronic dictionary using a common identifier.

Enterprises such as corporations may include multiple business units operating within various domains e.g. ontologies. Each unit may seek to model the various concepts attributes terms processes and the like within its particular domain. As part of the domain modeling process a unit may define and describe the concepts relevant to its particular domain.

In some circumstances a concept may be relevant to multiple units within an enterprise. If each unit creates its own concept definition then redundant and inconsistent definitions for the concepts within the enterprise may result. Accordingly there are challenges to maintaining consistent definitions for concepts within an enterprise that are relevant across domains.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of aspects described herein. The summary is not an extensive overview of all aspects. It is neither intended to identify key or critical elements nor to delineate the scope of the claims. The following summary merely presents some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the description below.

A computer implemented method of managing an electronic enterprise concept dictionary is provided. An electronic master dictionary may be maintained that corresponds to the enterprise concept dictionary. The master dictionary may include concept entries. The master dictionary may also include concept identifiers respectively associated with the concept entries. The master dictionary may further include one or more concept definitions respectively associated with the concept entries. Electronic local dictionaries may also be maintained. A local dictionary may include one or more of the concept identifiers included in the master dictionary.

In response to a determination that a local dictionary includes a concept identifier corresponding to a concept associated with a modeling component the modeling component may be associated with the concept identifier. In response to a determination that the local dictionary does not include a concept identifier corresponding to the concept it may be determined whether the master dictionary includes the concept identifier. If the master dictionary includes the concept identifier then the concept identifier may be included in the local dictionary and associated with the modeling component. If the master dictionary does not include the concept identifier then a new concept entry may be created in the master dictionary to obtain a new concept identifier. The new concept identifier may also be included in the local dictionary and associated with the modeling component.

A system for managing an enterprise concept dictionary is also provided. An electronic master dictionary may correspond to the enterprise concept dictionary. As noted above the electronic master dictionary may include concept entries respectively associated with concept identifiers and one or more concept definitions. Electronic local dictionaries may include one or more of the concept identifiers included in the master dictionary.

A dictionary management module may be in signal communication with the master dictionary and the local dictionaries. The dictionary management module may be configured to query the master dictionary for a concept entry that corresponds to a concept associated with a modeling component and provide a concept identifier if a concept entry is found. The dictionary management module may also be configured to add a new concept entry to the master dictionary and provide a new concept identifier when the master dictionary does not include a concept entry for the concept. A notification module may be in signal communication with the master dictionary and may be configured to automatically provide notification when a concept entry is added or updated in the master dictionary.

A non transitory computer readable medium is also provided. The non transitory computer readable medium may include instructions that when executed by a processor carry out one or more of the steps identified above and discussed in further detail below.

A method may comprise determining by a computing device that an application uses a first concept name from an application dictionary to describe an event in response to a determination that the event occurs at the application. An entry for the event may be added to a data log for the application. The entry may include the first concept name from the application dictionary. The method may additionally comprise generating a mapping of the first concept name from the application dictionary to a second concept name from a domain dictionary. The domain dictionary may be different from the application dictionary.

Generating the mapping as discussed above may comprise generating a mapping file that identifies the domain dictionary the first concept name from the application dictionary and a concept identifier for the event. In some aspects the mapping file might not identify the second concept name from the domain dictionary. The mapping file may also comprise a JavaScript Object Notation for Linked Data JSON LD file. The domain dictionary may also comprise a JSON LD file. In some aspects the domain dictionary may comprise a plurality of concept names including the second concept name. Each of the plurality of concept names may correspond to a concept identifier. Generating the mapping may additionally or alternatively comprises associating the first concept name from the application dictionary to a concept identifier and associating the second concept name from the domain dictionary to the concept identifier.

The method may comprise determining by the computing device that the application uses a third concept name from the domain dictionary to describe the second event in response to a determination that a second event occurs at the application. A second entry for the second event may be added to the data log for the application where the second entry includes the third concept name from the domain dictionary. The data log may also be sent to a data log analysis system capable of accessing the domain dictionary.

A non transitory computer readable medium is also provided. The non transitory computer readable medium may store instructions that when read by a computing device cause the computing device to perform one or more of the steps identified above and discussed in further detail below.

An apparatus comprising a processor and memory is also provided. The memory may store computer executable instructions that when executed by the processor cause the apparatus to perform one or more of the steps identified above and discussed in further detail below.

The details of these and other embodiments of the disclosure are set forth in the accompanying drawings and description below. Other features and advantages of aspects of the disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings.

The disclosure provides systems and methods for maintaining consistent concept definitions across domains ontologies within an enterprise. An enterprise may be for example a corporation having multiple business units operating within respective business domains. While the disclosures below proceed within the context of corporate enterprises and their associated business units and business domains it will be appreciated that aspects of the disclosure are applicable to additional or alternative enterprises.

An enterprise may be associated with various enterprise domains such as for example a risk domain a business process domain a data domain a security domain a services domain an application domain and other domains. Enterprise engineering may involve identifying and defining components to model aspects of the various domains. Such components may include for example entities attributes relationships and the like. As such these components may be referred to as modeling components. During the domain modeling process domain dictionaries may be created and updated to define and describe the concepts associated with the components used to model the domain. The domain dictionaries may thus include entries for the concepts that are associated with the components used to model the domain and one or more definitions for those concepts. Accordingly an entry for a concept may include a main definition approved for use by the various domains of the enterprise as well as a list of alternative definitions for the concept. A concept associated with a modeling component may be a single term or a phrase.

In some circumstances the concepts may be relevant across domains i.e. may be relevant to multiple domains within the enterprise. Accordingly the concepts may be applicable to modeling components from different domains. As noted above redundant and inconsistent definitions for concepts relevant across domains can result where each domain modeler provides a definition for a concept relevant to multiple domains. Enterprises may thus find it advantageous to maintain a consistent definition for concepts that are relevant to multiple domains. As discussed further below an enterprise may maintain an enterprise concept dictionary defines the concepts relevant to the domains of the enterprise. In this way the enterprise concept dictionary provides a consistent definition for concepts that each domain may leverage when modeling the domain.

Referring to an implementation of an enterprise concept definition management system is shown. The system includes an electronic enterprise concept dictionary entries for enterprise concepts and corresponding definitions that define and describe the semantic meanings of the concepts. Entries for the concepts in the enterprise concept dictionary may include metadata related to the concepts including for example a concept identifier concept ID a concept name and one or more concept definitions. The entries for the concepts may include additional or alternative types of metadata. Entries for the concepts in the enterprise concept dictionary may also include for example synonyms pseudonyms sources and the like. For corporate enterprises the enterprise concept dictionary may also be referred to as a corporate concept dictionary. In this regard the corporate concept dictionary serves as a repository of reference material for concepts relevant across the domains of the corporate enterprise.

An enterprise may include various domains and in the corporate context a corporate enterprise may include various business domains. As shown by way of example in business domains of a corporate enterprise may include a business process domain a data domain and a security domain . The domains may include various repositories to store domain models created for the domains. For example the business domain may include a business process repository for storing business processes modeled within the business domain the data domain may include a data model repository for storing data models created within the data domain and the security domain may include a security policy repository for storing security polices created within the security domain. One or more individuals within the enterprise may create and manage the models for the domains of the enterprise e.g. a business process modeler may model the business processes of the enterprise a data modeler may model the data models of the enterprise and a security policy modeler may model the security policies of the enterprise. In this regard such individuals may be referred to as domain modelers. The domain modelers may be for example employees of a corporate enterprise tasked with managing the respective domains .

As noted above domain modelers may utilize various modeling components to model the domain. Domain modelers may maintain their own domain dictionaries that define and describe the modeling components and the concepts associated with the modeling components. For example a business process modeler may maintain a business process domain dictionary that includes entries for business process concepts a data modeler may maintain a data domain dictionary that includes entries for data concepts and a security policy modeler may maintain a security policy domain dictionary that includes entries for security policy concepts . Entries in the domain dictionary may also include metadata e.g. a concept ID an component name an component type an component category and the like.

To maintain consistent definitions for concepts across domains the entries in the domain dictionaries may be linked related or otherwise associated with respective entries for concepts in the enterprise concept dictionary . As an example an entry in a domain dictionary may link to a concept in the enterprise concept dictionary via the concept ID . That is both the domain dictionary or and the enterprise concept dictionary may include the concept ID to establish a relationship between the entry in the domain dictionary and the entry in the enterprise concept dictionary. As a result when the entry in a domain dictionary or is referenced the domain dictionary may access and retrieve the definition for the concept from the enterprise concept dictionary via the concept ID . In this way the various domain dictionaries and may leverage consistent definitions for concepts . Additionally the enterprise concept dictionary remains independent of and agnostic to any domain modeling components that leverage the definitions for the concept of the enterprise concept dictionary .

The corporate concept dictionary thus represents a centralized repository for the definitions of the concepts . Accordingly the enterprise concept dictionary may be referred to as a master dictionary and a domain dictionary may be referred to as a local dictionary. Furthermore the enterprise concept dictionary and the domain dictionaries and are electronic dictionaries and thus may be respectively referred to as an electronic master dictionary and electronic local dictionaries. The electronic master dictionary and the electronic local dictionaries may be selectively implemented as for example a spreadsheet a database with corresponding tables and columns an XML file eXtensible Markup Language delimited value lists e.g. comma separated tab separated or other types of electronic data stores. Accordingly the entries in the electronic master dictionary and the electronic local dictionaries and may be for example database records line items spreadsheet rows and the like. The concept identifier may be a unique identifier that uniquely identifies entries for concepts in the electronic master dictionary . The concept identifier may be for example a text string of alphabetic numeric alphanumeric or symbolic characters as well as combinations thereof. The concept identifier may include multiple sub parts such as for example a source identifier that identifies an entity e.g. enterprise organization corporation that created the concept a data identifier that identifies the concept itself and a version identifier that indicates the concept version. The sub parts may be separated by a delimiter such as a hash mark . As an example the concept ID may conform to or resemble the format specified by ISO 22745 10. Association between entries in the electronic master dictionary and the electronic local dictionaries and may be established for example via primary and foreign keys via object attributes or properties or a structured file or list and the like. Furthermore associating a modeling component or with an entry for a concept in the electronic master dictionary or the electronic local dictionaries and may involve associating the concept ID with including the concept ID in or otherwise identifying the concept ID at the modeling component.

Automated tools may also retrieve the definition for a concept defined at the electronic master dictionary using the concept ID . Tools that may utilize the concept ID to leverage the concept definitions at the electronic master dictionary may include for example identity and access management tools for creating user roles managing access requirements and reviewing access rights. Notably such tools may include logging mechanisms that may include the concept IDs in log entries to accurately describe access transactions. As a result definitions for various information included in the log records is readily available during security information and event management SIEM analyses. Other types of tools services and resources utilized by an enterprise may similarly leverage concept definitions for concepts using the concept ID .

The system may be in signal communication via a computer network with a publicly accessible repository of concept definitions e.g. a remote concept dictionary. The remote dictionary may be publicly available via the network and may thus be referred to as a public dictionary. It will be appreciated that the remote dictionary may also be a remote private dictionary that is not publicly available. The remote concept dictionary may include concept definitions published by national and international bodies standards organizations or private entities such as corporations. In this regard the remote concept dictionary may include a public namespace and a private namespace for concept definitions. An enterprise may in some circumstances seek to leverage the definitions published by the publicly accessible remote concept dictionary when defining the concepts in the enterprise concept dictionary . The enterprise may also publish its own definitions for concepts defined in its enterprise concept dictionary such that other entities may leverage those definitions from the remote concept dictionary . One example of a publicly accessible remote concept dictionary is the Open Technical Dictionary eOTD maintained by the Electronic Commerce Code Management Association ECCMA .

The enterprise concept dictionary may be managed by an individual within the enterprise. Such an individual may be responsible for reviewing validating and updating entries in the enterprise concept dictionary . The individual that manages the enterprise concept dictionary may be referred to as the librarian. The librarian may ensure data quality at the enterprise concept dictionary by enforcing various standards for entries included in the enterprise concept dictionary. In some example embodiments the system may be configured to enforce some of the standards automatically as discussed further below. The librarian may monitor entries in the enterprise concept dictionary e.g. the definitions proposed by domain modelers for new concepts . The librarian may update the definitions or other metadata for the concept or additionally or alternatively request that the domain modelers update the entries. For example the librarian may identify a preferred definition update the entry for the concept to include the preferred definition. In some instances the librarian may determine that a definition from the publicly accessible remote concept dictionary is preferred and leverage the definition provided by the remote concept dictionary. The librarian may retrieve the definition from the remote concept dictionary or additionally or alternatively link to the definition at the remote concept dictionary via the concept ID .

As noted above the librarian may monitor new entries for concepts added to the enterprise concept dictionary . The librarian may review the information provided for the new entry and accept or reject the new entry. Entries for concepts in the enterprise concept dictionary may include a status e.g. pending approved rejected incomplete and deprecated. A concept status feed may be in signal communication with the enterprise concept dictionary to notify individuals of the concept status and other information relating to the concept e.g. updates to the concept. Individuals within the enterprise e.g. domain modelers may subscribe to concepts of the enterprise concept dictionary . The concept status feed may thus provide notifications via a feed reader not shown of any updates to concepts including e.g. changes to the concept status definition or metadata. In this way individuals within the enterprise may advantageously monitor any concepts of interest.

In addition to a concept status feed the concept definition management system may include an issue tracker for managing the process of revising concept definitions. The issue tracker may also be referred to as an issue tracking system or incident ticket system. As discussed further below issue tickets may be created at the issue tracking system and assigned to individuals within the enterprise. The issue ticket may indicate for example the need to update information for a concept at the enterprise concept dictionary e.g. provide a revised definition provide information associated with the concept and so forth. The issue tracker thus tracks the progress of resolving an issue and may notify individuals of such progress.

I O may include a microphone keypad touch screen and or stylus through which a user of the enhanced backup and retention management module may provide input and may also include one or more of a speaker for providing audio output and a video display device for providing textual audiovisual and or graphical output. Software may be stored within memory and or storage to provide instructions to processor for enabling device to perform various functions. For example memory may store software used by the device such as an operating system application programs and an associated database . Processor and its associated components may allow the device to run a series of computer readable instructions to manage enterprise concept definitions.

The server may operate in a networked environment supporting connections to one or more remote computers such as terminals and . The terminals and may be personal computers or servers that include many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device . The network connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. When used in a LAN networking environment the server is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the server may include a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are illustrative and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used. The existence of any of various well known protocols such as TCP IP Ethernet FTP HTTP and the like is presumed.

Additionally an application program used by the enterprise concept definition management module according to an illustrative embodiment of the disclosure may include computer executable instructions for invoking functionality related to managing enterprise concept definitions. Enterprise concept definition management module and or terminals or may also be mobile terminals such as smart phones personal digital assistants PDAs and the like including various other components such as a battery speaker and antennas not shown .

The disclosure is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the disclosure include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The disclosure may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The disclosure may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked for example through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

Referring to an example of an implementation of a system for managing an enterprise concept dictionary is shown. As discussed above the system may include an electronic master dictionary and one or more electronic local dictionaries . As noted above the master dictionary may correspond to the enterprise concept dictionary for an enterprise and the local dictionaries may respectively correspond to domain dictionaries for the various domains of the enterprise.

The master dictionary and the local dictionary may each include concept entries and for concepts relevant to an enterprise. The concept entries at the master dictionary may include a concept ID . The concept ID may be included in one or more concept entries of a local dictionary . The concept entries in the master dictionary may include one or more definitions . The definitions for a concept entry at the master dictionary may include for example a main definition and one or more alternative definitions. A concept entry at the master dictionary may also include one or more synonyms for the concept one or more sources for the definitions of the concept and a status for the concept. A concept entry at the master dictionary may additionally include a data quality specification the concept entry must satisfy. Additionally a concept entry at the master dictionary may include a list of subscribers as well as one or more concept IDs for other concept entries that are related to the concept.

A concept entry at the local dictionary may include metadata for the concept. The metadata may include for example a concept name type and category. It will be appreciated that in some example embodiments the master dictionary may include the metadata . As seen in and as explained above concept entries in the local dictionary may be linked to concept entries in the master dictionary via the concept ID . In this way the local dictionary may leverage the definitions for a concept from the master dictionary and the master dictionary may provide consistent definitions to various domains of an enterprise.

A domain modeler may utilize a modeling tool to develop and enterprise model for a domain of the enterprise. A modeling tool may be for example commercially available tools to develop database schemas design software systems model business processes and the like. As noted above such modeling tools may provide various modeling components for modeling the various enterprise domains. A modeling component may include be associated with or otherwise identify a concept ID such that a definition for the concept associated with the modeling component may be retrieved from the master dictionary .

The system may also include a dictionary management module in signal communication with the master dictionary and the local dictionaries . The dictionary management module may be a software application service or process or set of software applications services and processes configured to facilitate the process of managing the respective concept entries and at the master dictionary and the local dictionaries . For example the dictionary management module may be configured to automatically search a local dictionary for a concept automatically search the master dictionary for a concept provide new concept IDs for new concept entries or facilitate creating reviewing and updating respective concept entries and facilitate validation of new concept entries. These processes will be discussed in further detail below. The dictionary management module may provide various user interface screens at a terminal that enable a domain modeler or a librarian to add update and review concept entries or at the master dictionary or the local dictionaries . Accordingly the dictionary management module may be implemented as a web enabled interface standalone desktop application mobile application and the like.

As seen in the dictionary management module may be in signal communication with a public dictionary via a network . As mentioned above the public dictionary may also include concept entries having a concept ID and one or more definitions for the concept. As discussed further below the dictionary management module may be configured to automatically initiate a search of the public dictionary for a concept associated with a concept entry at the master dictionary .

The system may also include a notification module configured to provide notifications relating to the respective concept entries and at the master dictionary and the local dictionaries . The notification module may be configured to monitor the master dictionary and the local dictionaries and provide notifications in response to events occurring at the master dictionary or a local dictionary e.g. in response to creation of or updates to concept entries or . Such notifications may include for example a notification that a new concept entry has been added to the master dictionary a notification that a concept entry has been updated a notification that a concept status has changed and a notification of a task to complete for a concept entry. It will be appreciated with the benefit of this disclosure that the notification module may provide additional or alternative notifications. In some example embodiments the master dictionary may be configured to broadcast changes to the notification module which may in turn provide the notifications to the individuals.

The notification module may include for example an email messaging system an issue tracking system a web feed system e.g. RSS and combinations thereof. Notifications may also be provided at one or more of the interface displays provided by the dictionary management module. Accordingly notifications may be provided as email messages issue tickets content items of a web feed messages at an interface display and combinations of such. It will be appreciated that the notification module may provide additional or alternative types of notifications using additional or alternative approaches. Such notifications may be presented to a librarian domain modeler or other individual of the enterprise at a terminal .

Regarding the web feed the system may in some example implementations publish multiple web feeds. As an example the system may publish a main web feed that provides notification of changes to all concept entries in the master dictionary a set of web feeds that provide notification of changes to concept entries of a particular concept type or related to a particular domain e.g. a security policy web feed a risk policy web feed a business process domain web feed a data domain web feed and the like or additionally or alternatively individual web feeds for each concept entry in the master dictionary. Individual may subscribe to one or more of the web feeds e.g. the web feeds for concepts concept types or domains the individual is interested in. Subscribers may view the web feeds at a web feed reader or web feed aggregator.

Referring to a flowchart of example method steps for adding new entries in the enterprise concept dictionary is shown. A domain modeler may identify a concept associated with a modeling component for a domain block . The domain modeler may then determine whether a definition for the concept exists by querying the local dictionary for the concept block . The domain modeler may for example provide the name of the concept to the dictionary management module which may search the local dictionary for a concept entry corresponding to the concept name provided. If the local dictionary includes a concept entry for the concept block then the dictionary management module may provide the concept ID of the concept entry such that the domain modeling component may be associated with the concept entry at the local dictionary corresponding to the concept ID block . As noted above the concept ID may be associated with included in or otherwise identified at the modeling component. If the local dictionary does not include a concept entry for the concept block then the dictionary management module may automatically search the master dictionary for a concept entry provided block . If the master dictionary includes a concept entry for the concept block then the dictionary management module may obtain the concept ID from the master dictionary and add an entry in the local dictionary for the concept block . The dictionary management module may configure the new concept entry in the local dictionary to include the concept ID for the concept such that the new concept entry at the local dictionary is associated with the concept entry for the concept at the master dictionary. The domain modeling component may in turn be configured to include or identify the concept ID such that the domain modeling component is associated with the concept entry at the local dictionary corresponding to the concept ID block .

If the master dictionary does not include a concept entry corresponding to the concept block then the domain modeler may add a new concept entry to the master dictionary e.g. a master concept database record for the concept block . Upon creation of the new concept entry the dictionary management module may generate a new concept ID for the new concept entry block . The domain modeler may then initialize the new concept entry block by providing e.g. a concept name and a proposed definition. Additionally initialization of the new concept entry may include setting the status of the new concept entry to pending to indicate that the new concept entry has not yet been reviewed and approved. The dictionary management module may facilitate creation and configuration of the new concept entry at the master dictionary by providing one or more display interfaces at which the domain modeler may provide the concept information. After creation of the new concept entry in the master dictionary the dictionary management module may obtain the new concept ID and add a new entry for the concept in the local dictionary e.g. a local concept database record that includes the new concept ID block . The new concept ID is thus available to the domain modeler for use with the domain modeling component.

In some example embodiments the dictionary management module may be configured to validate new concept entries upon creation block . Validating a new concept entry may include for example ensuring that the new concept entry includes an initial proposed definition ensuring that the new concept entry satisfies any data quality specifications for the concept type and the like. Validating new concept entries will be discussed in further detail below. Additionally in some example embodiments the dictionary management module may automatically subscribe the domain modeler to the new concept entry block such that a notification module may notify the domain modeler of any changes or updates to the concept entry.

The notification module may determine that a new concept entry has been added to the master dictionary and automatically notify a librarian that the domain modeler has added the new concept entry block . As noted above the notification module may notify the librarian via an email message an issue ticket or a message displayed at a display interface. For example the display interface may include a list of all new concepts that domain modelers of an enterprise have added. The librarian may thus proceed through the list review the new concept entries and either approve or reject the new concept entries. As discussed further below the librarian may update concept entries during review or may request that a domain modeler to update the concept entry.

Accordingly it will be appreciated that the enterprise dictionary management system permits domain modelers to create new concept entries as needed during domain modeling activities. The system permits domain modelers to expand an enterprise concept dictionary with new concepts as needed and provides the domain modelers with concept IDs that can be used in the domain model upon creation of the concept entry. In this way domain modelers are not hindered in their domain modeling efforts by waiting for approval of the new concept entries. Instead review of the new concept entries may advantageously take place simultaneously with the use of such concept entries at the domain modeling level. Additionally any updates to the concept entries will be automatically reflected at the domain model via the concept ID that references and links to the concept entry at the enterprise concept dictionary.

In some example implementations the dictionary management module may be configured to automatically search one or more remote dictionaries for definitions of a new concept added to the master dictionary of an enterprise. is a flowchart of example method steps for automatically performing a search based on a new concept entry in the enterprise concept dictionary. A new concept entry may be added to the master dictionary block . During the creation process e.g. during initialization the dictionary management module may automatically initiate a search query for the concept block . The search query may include e.g. the concept name and may conform to a format specified by an application programming interface API provided by a remote dictionary e.g. a public dictionary accessible via a network.

The dictionary management module may transmit the search query to the remote dictionary e.g. via the network block . If the remote dictionary does not include any definitions for the concept block then the dictionary management module may conclude the search block . If however the remote dictionary does include a definition for the concept block then the remote dictionary may provide one or more definitions of the concept to the dictionary management module block . The remote dictionary may provide the definitions via the network in e.g. one or more responses to the search query. Upon receipt of the definitions from the remote dictionary the dictionary management module may add one or more of the definitions received to the list of alternative definitions of the new concept entry in the master dictionary block . The list of alternative definitions which may include the definitions received from the remote dictionary may thus be presented to the librarian during the review of the new concept entry block .

As noted above the dictionary management module may be configured to validate a new concept entry upon creation. is a flowchart of example method steps for validating a new concept entry in the master dictionary. A new concept entry may be created at the master dictionary block . A domain modeler may provide concept information for the concept e.g. metadata such as the concept name a concept type and a concept type block . A new concept identifier may be generated and set for the new concept entry. The domain modeler may also provide an initial proposed concept definition for the new concept entry block .

As noted above validating the new concept entry may include determining whether one or more data quality specifications are satisfied. In some example embodiments concept entries may be associated with or specify a particular concept type. The concept type may in turn be associated with one or more data quality specifications. Accordingly when a new concept entry is added to the master dictionary the dictionary management module may determine whether the concept type of the new concept entry is associated with or includes data quality specifications block . If data quality specifications are not specified for the concept type of the new concept entry block then the dictionary management module may continue with initialization block and the notification module may provide notification of the new concept entry once initialization is complete block .

If data quality specifications are specified for the concept type of the new concept entry block then the dictionary management module may determine whether the data quality specifications are satisfied block . Data quality specifications may be based on external governance or industry standards or additionally or alternatively on internal enterprise standards. Data quality specifications may specify for example certain types of information that the concept entry in the master dictionary must include. For example a general data quality specification may specify that a concept entry at the master dictionary must include at least one definition. If in this example the dictionary management module determines that a concept entry does not include a definition the dictionary management module may determine that the concept entry does not satisfy the data quality specifications. Data quality specifications may also specify relationships that should be established between a concept entry of a particular concept type and other concept entries in the master dictionary. As another example data quality specifications in the business domain may specify that concept entries relating to business processes should be associated with at least one concept entry relating to a job function. Accordingly if in this example the dictionary management module determines that a business process type concept entry is not associated with at least one job function type concept entry then the dictionary management module may determine that the concept entry does not satisfy the data quality specifications associated with the business process concept type. It will be appreciated that additional or alternative data quality specifications may be selectively employed.

If the dictionary management module determines that a new concept entry does not satisfy one or more associated data quality specifications block then the dictionary management module may set the status of the new concept entry as e.g. incomplete block . In some example embodiments the dictionary management module may be configured to initiate notification to an individual e.g. a librarian or domain modeler that the new concept entry is incomplete. As noted above the notification module may be or include an issue tracker. Accordingly in some example embodiments the dictionary management module may automatically create a new issue ticket in the issue tracker and identify or otherwise associate the new issue ticket with the new concept entry block . The dictionary management module may also indicate in the new issue ticket one or more tasks that an individual must carry out with respect to the new concept entry e.g. provide a definition establish appropriate relationships with other concept entries and the like. The dictionary management module may automatically assign the issue ticket to an individual responsible for responding to the issue ticket block . The notification module e.g. the issue tracker may thus provide notification to the individual of the new issue ticket assigned block . As noted above however because the new concept entry has been created the concept entry and corresponding concept ID are thus available as needed for domain modeling efforts. An individual may respond to the issue ticket as desired independently of any domain modeling efforts. It will be appreciated that the individual assigned to the issue ticket may or may not be the individual that created the new concept entry. Once initialization of the new concept entry is finished whether the new concept entry is complete or incomplete the notification module may notify the librarian that a new concept entry has been added to the master dictionary block . In some example embodiments the notification to the librarian may indicate whether the new concept entry is complete or incomplete.

As also noted above a librarian may review new concept entries added to the master dictionary. The librarian may review the new concept entries to ensure for example that the proposed definition is acceptable for the enterprise. Referring to a flowchart of example method steps for reviewing a new concept entry in a master dictionary is shown. As shown above a new concept entry may be added to a master dictionary of an enterprise block and a notification module may automatically notify a librarian of the new concept entry block . The dictionary management module may present one or more user interface displays to the librarian e.g. at a web portal or desktop application that permit the librarian to manage the master dictionary of the enterprise. One of the user display interfaces that the dictionary management module may present to the librarian may be referred to as a master dictionary management interface block .

The master dictionary management interface may provide the librarian with access to the master dictionary of the enterprise. The librarian may select a concept entry at the master dictionary to view the information associated with the selected concept entry e.g. the concept definition the list of alternative definitions the list of sources for the definition the status of the definition and so forth. The master dictionary management interface may also present a list of recently added concept entries for the librarian to review block . The librarian may select one of the new concept entries block and the dictionary management module may retrieve and present the information for the selected concept block e.g. the proposed definition the concept type timestamp information indicating when the concept was created and the domain modeler that created the concept.

As described above the dictionary management module may be configured to automatically search for public definitions of the concept at a publicly available remote dictionary. If the dictionary management module located any publicly available definitions for the concept block then the dictionary management module may display a list of alternative definitions for the concept block for the librarian to consider.

The librarian may review the information for a selected concept entry block including for example the definition the metadata the list of alternative definitions. If the librarian considers the concept information to be satisfactory block then the librarian may update the status of the concept to e.g. approved block . The notification module may detect the change to the status of the concept entry and notify one or more subscribers to the concept entry of the change block . As noted above a concept entry may include a list of subscribers which may be for example a list of email addresses a list of employee numbers or a list of other information used to identify individual that requested to be notified when changes to the concept entry occur. As also noted above notification may be provided as an email message an issue ticket publications to a web feed and the like.

If the librarian determines that the concept information is not satisfactory block the librarian may update the concept status to e.g. rejected block . The librarian may then create in issue ticket for the concept entry block and indicate at the issue ticket why the concept entry was rejected. The librarian may reject the concept entry where for example the librarian determines the proposed definition is incomplete or insufficient. The librarian may assign the issue ticket to an individual block such that the individual is notified the concept entry needs updating. In some examples the librarian may assign the issue ticket to the domain modeler that originally created the concept entry. The issue tracker may thus provide notification of the new issue ticket for the concept entry block . In this way the librarian may advantageously manage the master dictionary from a centralized location delegate tasks to domain modelers where updates are needed to the concept entries in the enterprise concept dictionary and monitor the progress of such updates as they are addressed.

In another flowchart of example method steps for updating a concept entry in a master dictionary is shown. In the librarian performs the update rather than assigning a task to an individual as shown by way of example in . In the librarian may select a concept entry of the master dictionary at the master dictionary management interface block and review the concept information e.g. the definition for the selected concept block . If the concept information for the selected concept is satisfactory block then the librarian may update the concept status to e.g. approved block and the notification module may notify the subscribers to the concept of the status change block .

If the concept information for the selected concept is not satisfactory block then the librarian may review the list of alternative definitions for the selected concept block . If one of the alternative definitions for the selected concept is satisfactory block then the librarian may select a desired alternative definition as the main definition for the concept entry block . If the librarian does not find any of the alternative definitions for the concept satisfactory block the librarian may provide new definition for the concept entry based on the proposed definition or one or more of the alternative definitions. Having updated the definition for the concept entry the librarian may update the concept status to e.g. approved block and the notification module may notify the subscribers to the concept of the new definition block .

In a flowchart of example method steps for responding to a notification from the notification module is shown. An individual e.g. a data modeler may receive an issue ticket associated with a concept entry block . As noted above the issue ticket may identify a task for the data modeler to complete with respect to the concept entry e.g. revising the definition completing the definition or ensuring data quality specifications associated with the concept entry are satisfied. The data modeler may review the concept entry identified by the issue ticket block including e.g. the concept definition.

In some examples the issue ticket may have been created because the librarian rejected the proposed definition for the concept block . Accordingly the data modeler may revise the concept definition block in response. In other examples the issue ticket may have been created because one or more data quality specifications associated with the concept entry is not satisfied block . In response the data modeler may update the concept entry to satisfy the associated data quality specifications block . Once the data modeler has updated the concept entry to resolve the issues identified in the issue ticket block the notification module may provide notification to the librarian indicating the concept entry has been updated block .

In response to the notification the librarian may review the changes block and determine whether the revised concept information is satisfactory. If the revised concept information is satisfactory block then the librarian may update the concept status to e.g. approved block and the notification module may notify the domain modeler of the status change block . If the librarian determines that the revised concept information is not satisfactory block then the librarian may repeat the process by creating a new issue ticket for the concept entry block assign the new issue ticket to the domain modeler block and provide notification to the domain modeler of the new issue ticket via the notification module block .

The dictionary management module may provide a dictionary management interface that domain modelers may use to view the local dictionaries e.g. the domain dictionaries as well as the master dictionary e.g. the enterprise concept dictionary . The dictionary management interface may present the notifications provided by the notification module e.g. the issue tickets or web feeds. A domain modeler may select a concept entry to review or update e.g. revise the concept definition update associated concepts and so forth.

Referring now to a block diagram of an example of an enterprise concept dictionary and various domain dictionaries is shown. As seen in a concept identifier links a concept in the enterprise concept dictionary to attributes in respective domain dictionaries . The concept in the enterprise concept dictionary may include or otherwise be associated with the concept ID . The respective attributes in each domain dictionary may also include or otherwise be associated with the concept ID . In this way the concept ID links domain attributes to a common concept in the enterprise concept dictionary . The domain attributes may thus reference and leverage the concept definition for the enterprise concept identified by the concept ID .

In some aspects a computer implemented method may comprise maintaining an electronic master dictionary that corresponds to an electronic enterprise concept dictionary and includes one or more concept entries one or more concept identifiers respectively associated with the one or more concept entries and one or more concept definitions respectively associated with the one or more concept entries. The method may include maintaining an electronic local dictionary wherein the local dictionary includes one or more of the concept identifiers included in the master dictionary. The method may include determining whether the local dictionary includes a concept identifier corresponding to a concept associated with a modeling component. The method may include associating the modeling component with the concept identifier in response to a determination that the local dictionary includes the concept identifier. The method may include determining whether the master dictionary includes the concept identifier in response to a determination that the local dictionary does not include the concept identifier. The method may include including the concept identifier in the local dictionary and associating the modeling component with the concept identifier in response to a determination that the master dictionary includes the concept identifier. The method may also include creating a new concept entry for the concept in the master dictionary to obtain a new concept identifier including the new concept identifier in the local dictionary and associating the modeling component with the new concept identifier in response to a determination that the master dictionary does not include the concept identifier.

In some aspects the master dictionary may include a status associated with the new concept entry. The method may further include setting the status to indicate that approval of the new concept entry is pending and automatically providing notification that indicates the new concept entry has been created in the master dictionary.

In some aspects the method may further comprise determining that the new concept entry has not been approved updating the status associated with the new concept entry to indicate that the new concept entry has not been approved and automatically providing notification that indicates the new concept entry has not been approved.

In some aspects the method may further comprise creating a new issue ticket in an issue tracking system wherein the issue ticket indicates one or more reasons that the new concept entry was not approved associating the issue ticket with the new concept entry and associating the issue ticket with an individual responsible for updating the new concept entry.

In some aspects the method may further comprise initiating a search query for the concept associated with the new concept entry at a public dictionary determining whether the public dictionary includes one or more public definitions for the concept associated with the new concept entry and including one or more of the public definitions for the concept in the master dictionary such that the one or more public definitions are associated with the new concept entry.

In some aspects the master dictionary may include a concept definition associated with the new concept entry. The method may further comprise receiving user input corresponding to a selection of one of the public definitions associated with the new concept entry and setting the concept definition for the new concept entry to the public definition selected.

In some aspects the method may include updating concept information associated with one of the concept entries included in the master dictionary and automatically providing notification that the concept entry has been updated.

In some aspects automatically providing notification that one of the concept entries in the master dictionary has been updated may include publishing update information associated with the concept entry to a web feed associated with the concept entry such that one or more subscribers to the web feed receive the update information.

In some aspects the master dictionary may include a list of one or more subscribers that subscribe to the concept entry. The step of automatically providing notification that one of the concept entries in the master database has been updated may include creating an issue ticket in an issue tracking system wherein the issue ticket includes the concept information that has been updated and associating the issue ticket with one or more of the subscribers that subscribe to the concept entry.

In some aspects the local dictionary includes metadata respectively associated with one or more of the concept identifiers included in the local dictionary and the metadata may include at least one of a concept name a concept type a concept category and combinations thereof.

In some aspects a system may comprise an electronic master dictionary that corresponds to an enterprise concept dictionary and includes one or more concept entries one or more concept identifiers respectively associated with the one or more concept entries and one or more concept definitions respectively associated with the one or more concept entries. The system may also include an electronic local dictionary wherein the local dictionary includes one or more of the concept identifiers included in the master dictionary. In some aspects a dictionary management module may be in signal communication with the master dictionary and the local dictionary. Furthermore the dictionary management module may be configured to query the master dictionary for a concept entry that corresponds to a concept associated with a modeling component provide a concept identifier for the concept entry when the master dictionary includes the concept entry for the concept and add a new concept entry to the master dictionary and provide a new concept identifier associated with the new concept entry when the master dictionary does not include the concept entry for the concept. The system may also comprise a notification module in signal communication with the master dictionary and the notification module may be configured to automatically provide notification when the new concept entry is added to the master dictionary and when one of the concept entries in the master dictionary is updated.

In some aspects the master dictionary may be further configured to automatically initiate a search for the concept associated with the new concept entry at a public dictionary retrieve one or more public definitions for the concept included in the public dictionary and include the one or more public definitions for the concept in the master dictionary such that the one or more public definitions are associated with the new concept entry.

In some aspects the master dictionary may include concept entries for a plurality of enterprise domains the electronic local dictionary may be one of a plurality of electronic local dictionaries and individual local dictionaries of the plurality of local dictionaries may respectively correspond to one of the enterprise domains of the plurality of enterprise domains.

In some aspects the system may further comprise a web feed in signal communication with the notification module. The notification module may publish updates to concept information associated with one of the concept entries included in the master dictionary via the web feed.

In some aspects the system may further comprise an issue tracker in signal communication with the dictionary management module. The dictionary management module may be further configured to create an issue ticket at the issue tracker associate one of the concept entries included in the master dictionary with the issue ticket indicate in the issue ticket a task relating to the concept entry and associate the issue ticket with an individual responsible for completing the task.

In some aspects a non transitory computer readable medium having computer executable instructions stored thereon that when executed by a processor may cause the processor to determine whether a local dictionary database includes a concept identifier corresponding to a concept associated with a modeling component associate the modeling component with the concept identifier in response to a determination that the local dictionary database the concept identifier determine whether a master dictionary database includes the concept identifier in response to a determination that the local dictionary database does not include the concept identifier create a new local concept record for the concept identifier in the local dictionary database and associating the modeling component with the concept identifier in response to a determination that the master dictionary database includes the concept identifier and create a new master concept record for the concept in the master dictionary database to obtain a new concept identifier a new local concept record for the new concept identifier in the local dictionary database and associating the modeling component with the new concept identifier in response to a determination that the master dictionary database does not include the concept identifier.

In some aspects the concept may be associated with a concept type and wherein the computer executable instructions when executed by the processor may cause the processor to determine whether one or more data quality specifications are associated with the concept type associated with the concept. In response to a determination that one or more data quality requirements are associated with the concept type the processor may determine whether the new master concept record for the concept satisfies one or more of the data quality specifications. In response to a determination that the new master concept record does not satisfy at least one of the data quality specifications the processor may set a status associated with the new master concept record to indicate that the new master concept record is incomplete.

In some aspects the computer executable instructions when executed by the processor may cause the processor to automatically provide notification that the new master concept record is incomplete in response to the determination that the new master concept record does not satisfy at least one of the data quality specifications.

In some aspects providing notification that the new master concept record is incomplete may include automatically creating an issue ticket in an issue tracking system wherein the issue ticket indicates one or more of the data quality specifications the new master concept record does not satisfy automatically associating the issue ticket with the new master concept record and automatically associating the issue ticket with an individual responsible for updating the new master concept record.

In some aspects the computer executable instructions when executed by the processor may cause the processor to determine that the new master concept record has been updated and automatically providing notification indicating that the new master concept record has been updated to an individual responsible for reviewing the new master concept record.

Four domain dictionaries are illustrated in a Domain Dictionary a Domain Dictionary a Domain Dictionary and a Domain Dictionary N . One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that any number of domain dictionaries may exist. As previously described each domain dictionary may correspond to a particular domain such as a business domain. One or more applications may be associated with each domain dictionary. These applications may run on each domain or otherwise communicate with or otherwise have access to their respective domain dictionary. For example Application A Application B Application C Application D Application E and Application F may be associated with Domain Dictionary . Application G may be associated with Domain Dictionary and Domain Dictionary . Application H and Application J may each be associated with Domain Dictionary . Application K and Application L may each be associated with Domain Dictionary N .

Each application might have its own application dictionary that identifies and defines one or more concepts similar to the enterprise concept dictionary and or domain dictionaries previously described. In some aspects a concept or term in an application dictionary may be linked related to or otherwise associated with a concept or term in a domain dictionary. Some applications might not have their own dictionaries. For example Application B and Application H might not have dictionaries. Instead Application B and Application H might utilize one or more domain dictionary for concepts and terms as will be described in further detail in the examples below. An application may comprise for example an operating system a database an enterprise application a mobile application a network device and or any other software or hardware component.

Applications may be configured to generate one or more logs such as a data log file. Data logs may include information identifying for example actions taken by users the user s taking each action errors occurring during execution of actions in the application date and or time information for each action and performance statistics of the application among numerous other types of information. For example a log might indicate that an application shut down too quickly or did not open. Logs may be formatted differently for each application or type of application. For example an operating system may format a data log differently from a database. Logs may also use different concepts or terms for the information included in each log. For example one application may use the concept name Party Identifier for the party identifier of a customer of an institution such as a financial institution. On the other hand a different application may use the concept name Party ID for the party identifier of a customer. As will be discussed in further detail in the examples that follow concepts in application dictionaries mapping dictionaries and or domain dictionaries may be linked related to or otherwise associated with concepts in another dictionary.

If the concept name is an update to an existing concept step Yes the computing device may update the concept name for the existing concept ID in step . For example assume that the existing concept name for the party identifier identifying a customer is PartyIDENTIFIER. A user or application may provide PartyID for the concept ID XXXX32 indicating that the user desires to change the concept name for concept ID XXXX32 from PartyIDENTIFIER to PartyID. When the computing device receives the new concept name PartyID the computing device may update the domain dictionary with the new concept name PartyID in step .

If the concept name is not an update to an existing concept step No the computing device may determine that the concept is new and proceed to create a new entry for the domain dictionary. The computing device may make this determination if the user inputs a concept name that is not associated with a concept ID. In step the computing device may generate a concept ID for the new concept. For example the generated concept ID might be XXXX32 or in any other format as previously discussed. The concept ID may be unique to that concept and be automatically generated by a software program or web based program. For example the concept ID may be generated using WIKI Markup.

In step the computing device may generate a concept definition for the new concept. In some aspects the user may be prompted to provide a definition. In other aspects and as previously discussed the computing device may attempt to retrieve a definition from another location such as from the web and or from a business domain database storing definitions.

In step the computing device may generate one or more labels for the new concept. The labels may identify the context that each concept may be used. For example a security label may indicate that the concept is used for security purposes as described herein. As another example a business label may indicate that the concept is used for business purposes as described herein. Another label may be a logging label. In some aspects the logging label may indicate that the concept is used during logging by one or more applications.

A user may input the label s for each concept. Additionally or alternatively the label s may be automatically determined or generated by the computing device based on a determination of the appropriate label. For example the computing device may determine that a security application uses the concept and add a security label based on the determination. If the security application or a different application also uses the concept for data logging the computing device may add a logging label for the concept. Any number of labels may be added or removed using the foregoing methods.

In step the computing device may determine whether to generate one or more mapping dictionaries for the concept. If so the computing device may generate the mapping dictionary in step . The mapping dictionaries may be used to map an application specific concept name to a domain dictionary name. In some aspects the mapping dictionaries may be stored with or be part of the domain dictionary. For example the domain dictionary may store multiple concept names for a single concept ID such as PartyID Party Identifier Party ID Party ID PARTY ID and partyID for the concept ID XXXX32. One of the concept names such as PartyID may also be identified as the primary concept name whereas the remaining concept names may be identified as secondary names. Alternatively mapping dictionaries may be generated separately from the domain dictionary. These separate mapping dictionaries might be similar to the domain dictionaries except that they might use the application specific concept name such as Party Identifier Party ID Party ID PARTY ID and partyID for the concept ID XXXX32. By mapping the application specific concept names to the domain dictionary concept names and or concept IDs applications may be able to use their own concept names rather than using concept names used by the domain dictionary. This may be beneficial if for example the application is a legacy application having its own logging structure and or concept names.

In step the computing device may store the concept name concept ID definition label and mapping data such as in one or more domain dictionary or mapping dictionary. The domain dictionaries may be generated in two formats 1 a user readable format such as an HTML table or other user readable interface and 2 a machine readable format such as in the form of JavaScript Object Notation for Linked Data JSON LD or any other linked data format such as Resource Description Framework RDF Extensible Markup Language XML or any other format utilizing URIs such as URLs to link information and or other format otherwise utilizing context e.g. semantics fields.

The user readable format may include one or more data fields such as concept name concept ID labels and definition and corresponding values as previously discussed. The data fields and values may be stored in a concept repository. An example table is provided herein 

A corresponding machine readable domain dictionary may also be generated such as in the form of a JSON LD file which may be named for example domain1 dictionary.jsonld or something similar 

The mapping dictionaries and or application dictionaries may also be generated in user readable format and or machine readable format. If an application uses its own concept name s e.g. in an application dictionary the application may reference link or otherwise associate its concept name s with concept name s in the domain dictionary via a concept ID. An example JSON LD file for an application that uses the concept name partyID rather than the domain dictionary concept name PartyID which may be named for example application1 dictionaryjsonld or something similar may be as follows 

In this example jsonld file the application may identify the domain dictionary via a URL http u.go domain1 dictionary identify the domain via a URL http institution.com identify the concept name it uses partyID and identify the concept ID domain1 XXXX32 associated with the concept name. As illustrated in the domain dictionary above the concept ID domain1 XXXX32 may be associated with concept name PartyID used by the domain dictionary. By using this mapping the application may conveniently use one or more of its own terms.

In some aspects an application such as application N.A. may use concept names from its own application N.A. dictionary as well concept names from a domain dictionary such as domain N dictionary Unit B . Thus some of the concept names used by application N.A.. might be mapped to one or more domain dictionary such as domain dictionary N and or domain N dictionary Unit B . On the other hand concepts that application N.A. uses directly from a domain dictionary might not need to be mapped. As illustrated the domain dictionary N may have two sub dictionaries Unit A and Unit B. Applications may choose to use one or more of these sub dictionaries.

An application that uses its own dictionary can annotate data elements in a data log to map elements in the log to concept names used by the domain dictionary. Thus an application concept name can be tied to a canonical concept name in the domain dictionary. Accordingly each time an application concept name is referenced such as in a data log the business domain analytical engines having access to the domain dictionary or other applications may identify the proper concept name from the domain dictionary. Using this mapping technique analytical engines may be able to onboard and maintain applications more conveniently consume and or analyze data logs quicker and generate analytical reports more quickly.

In step the application may determine whether the application uses an application dictionary. If the application uses an application dictionary step Yes it may retrieve the application dictionary in step . The application may also retrieve a mapping such as a mapping dictionary or file that maps one or more concept names in the application dictionary to one or more concept names in the domain dictionary in step . The application dictionary may be stored for example within the application or associated database . The mapping may also be stored for example within the application or associated database or it may be stored within a particular domain such as a related business domain.

In step the application may retrieve the domain dictionary. In step for concept names found in the application dictionary the application may map the application dictionary concept names to a concept ID that may be stored in the domain dictionary as previously discussed. In step for concept names taken from the domain dictionary the application may directly reference the domain dictionary rather than generating a mapping . If the application does not use an application dictionary for any concepts step No the application may retrieve the domain dictionary in step and directly reference the domain dictionary for concepts the application plans to include in the log.

In step the application may generate the log using the domain dictionary the application dictionary and or the mapping dictionary or file. In particular the log might include several field value pairs related to a particular action. Example actions were previously illustrated in the user readable table previously discussed. For example if a customer of an institution such as a financial institution attempts to access data but the access is denied the log may include a concept name Action FailedAccess if the domain dictionary is used or concept name Customer Access Attempt with a reference to concept ID XXXXX3 if an application dictionary having the concept name Customer Access Attempt is used . The log might also indicate the time and date of the access attempt and or the IP address of the customer attempting to access the data e.g. IP Address EndUser if the domain dictionary is used . Any of the concepts illustrated in the above table as well as concepts not illustrated may be included in generated logs.

In step the log may be provided to an analysis system e.g. an analytical engine to process the data. In some aspects the analysis system may have access to the domain dictionary. By accessing the domain dictionary and the mapping for application specific concept names analysis systems may be able to onboard and maintain applications more conveniently consume and or analyze data logs quicker and generate analytical reports more quickly. For example the analysis systems may search and report analytics across multiple applications such as search and analytical dashboards because of the use of common concept IDs.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

