---

title: System and method for chopping up and processing gift cards
abstract: Systems, methods, and computer-readable media for chopping up a gift card/code into smaller multiple gift card/codes. The system receives a request from a user to convert a closed-loop card/code having a value amount into two different closed-loop cards/codes and divides (or “chops up”) the closed-loop card/code into a first closed-loop card/code having a first value amount and a second closed-loop card/code having a second value amount, wherein the first value amount and the second value amount add up to no more than the value amount. The system offers the first closed-loop card/code and the second closed-loop card/code to one of the user and a third party.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09547856&OS=09547856&RS=09547856
owner: GiftCodes.com, LLC
number: 09547856
owner_city: Pittsburgh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160506
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 694 322 filed Apr. 23 2015 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 227 581 filed Mar. 27 2014 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 016 567 issued Apr. 28 2015 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 022 630 filed Sep. 10 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 701 991 issued Apr. 22 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 442 554 filed Apr. 9 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 528 814 issued on Sep. 10 2013 which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 702 600 filed Feb. 9 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 152 061 issued on Apr. 10 2012 which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 573 042 filed Oct. 2 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 152 060 issued on Apr. 10 2012 which claim priority to Provisional Application 61 207 125 filed Feb. 9 2009 and Provisional Application 61 211 394 filed Mar. 28 2009 all of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This application is related to U.S. application Ser. Nos. 12 702 610 12 702 623 and 12 701 711 filed Feb. 9 2010 the content of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to a system and method of receiving a request to chop up an original gift card or gift code having an original dollar amount into multiple gift cards or gift codes having different dollar amounts which add up to be equal or less than the original dollar amount.

Prepaid gift accounts are widely used as gifts for birthdays Christmas and other holidays. Prepaid gift accounts can be issued as physical cards. Prepaid gift accounts can also be issued as an account number delivered to the prepaid account holder via text message email or as data displayed on an application residing on a mobile computing device such as a mobile telecommunications device a mobile computing device such as a laptop computer smart phone or tablet computer or a non mobile computer device such as a personal computer system personal gaming system or satellite or cable television system. Prepaid gift accounts can be closed loop meaning that the value represented by the prepaid gift account is a valid form of payment at a closed set of retailers. For example an OUTBACK STEAKHOUSE prepaid gift account is only redeemable at OUTBACK STEAKHOUSE and not at PLANET HOLLYWOOD or TARGET . Some closed loop prepaid gift accounts are valid at a family of closely related or commonly owned merchants. For example a DARDEN RESTAURANTS prepaid gift account is valid at RED LOBSTER and OLIVE GARDEN similarly a local mall prepaid gift account is valid at tenant merchants in the local mall. By contrast prepaid gift accounts can also be open loop such as VISA or MASTERCARD debit cards which serve as a valid form of payment at virtually any retailer nationwide.

While prepaid gift accounts are popular alternatives to cash and merchandise gifts which may not interest the recipient such prepaid gift accounts typically have various limitations which reduce their utility and appeal to the recipient. For example the recipient may have trouble redeeming the prepaid gift account due to geographic limitations associated with the prepaid gift account. Many times the prepaid gift account is tied to a particular merchant which the recipient may dislike greatly reducing the value of the prepaid gift account to the recipient. Additionally some merchants issue prepaid gift accounts with significant restrictions complex fees and or expiration dates. According to one estimate consumers purchase about 80 billion worth of prepaid gift accounts annually in the U.S. and roughly 10 or 8 billion of that amount goes unredeemed. Consumers waste these unredeemed funds and do not benefit from the full value of the prepaid gift account. Further if these funds are not spent they can escheat to the state.

Additional features and advantages of the disclosure will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or can be learned by practice of the herein disclosed principles. The features and advantages of the disclosure can be realized and obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. These and other features of the disclosure will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or can be learned by the practice of the principles set forth herein.

The present disclosure focuses primarily on chopping up a gift card as well as fraud prevent techniques. Systems and methods covered include features that enable the system to perform an operation of chopping up a gift card or a gift code. The method can cause the computing device to generate a new closed loop card code associated with the amount of money in an original gift card code. In one embodiment the method causes the computing device to offer for sale the new closed loop card code at a second offer amount and upon a second user accepting the second offer for sale and upon receiving payment generate and transfer the new closed loop card code to a second user. The new closed loop card code can be personalized based on input from the user. In another embodiment the method divides a large closed loop card code having an original value amount by causing the computing device to receive a set of smaller values totaling a sum equal to or lesser than the amount of money in the closed loop card code account divide the amount of money in the closed loop account into gift cards codes in denominations of the set of smaller values and provide the gift cards codes to the owner as payment. This is called chopping up a card code. In yet another embodiment the computing device receives an additional amount of money from the owner and provides payment to the owner by providing a gift card code to the owner of the offer amount plus the additional amount of money. This is called topping up a card code. An example method embodiment of chopping up includes receiving a request from a user to convert a closed loop card code having a value amount into two different closed loop cards codes dividing the closed loop card code into a first closed loop card code having a first value amount and a second closed loop card code having a second value amount wherein the first value amount and the second value amount add up to no more than the value amount and presenting or offering the first closed loop card code and the second closed loop card code to one of the user and a separate person. The offering can be payment for the closed loop card code to the user or the user can be paid separately and the new closed loop cards codes can be offered to a third party or third parties.

Other approaches disclosed herein although not the focus of the claims in this present case include fraud prevention techniques. The approaches set forth herein can provide a secure and efficient mechanism for prepaid gift account fraud prevention. More specifically these approaches can prevent fraud when users exchange prepaid gift accounts by closing a first prepaid gift account for a first prepaid gift and generating a second prepaid gift account for a second prepaid gift that is funded with at least a portion of the funds from the first prepaid gift account. Here users can securely exchange prepaid gift accounts with great flexibility.

Disclosed are systems methods and computer readable storage media for preventing fraud when exchanging prepaid gift accounts. The system identifies a first prepaid gift account associated with a first prepaid gift. The system then presents an owner of the first prepaid gift with an offer to purchase the prepaid gift account associated with the first prepaid gift for an offer amount. Next the system receives from the owner an acceptance of the offer. Based on the acceptance the system provides payment to the owner for the first prepaid gift account associated with the first prepaid gift generates a second prepaid gift account for a second prepaid gift transfers at least a portion of funds from the first prepaid gift account associated with the first prepaid gift to the second prepaid gift account deactivates the first prepaid gift account associated with the first prepaid gift and offers the second prepaid gift account for resale as a new prepaid gift to a person other than the owner. In one embodiment the system receives a counteroffer from the owner and based on the counteroffer the system provides payment to the owner for the first prepaid gift account associated with the first prepaid gift generates a second prepaid gift account for a second prepaid gift transfers at least some of the funds from the first prepaid gift account associated with the first prepaid gift to the second prepaid gift account deactivates the first prepaid gift account associated with the first prepaid gift and offers the second prepaid gift account for resale as a new prepaid gift to a person other than the owner. The system could also offer a new prepaid gift account to the owner as payment as well.

The offer to purchase the prepaid gift account can be open or time limited and conditioned upon a resale of a different prepaid gift account. The offer amount can be based on a resale velocity of prepaid gift accounts of a similar type as the prepaid gift account inventory levels and or any other relevant business metrics. The payment can include a check a payment of a bill or debt of the owner of the prepaid gift account loading an amount to a new or existing credit a debit card or prepaid gift a deposit into an existing or new bank account cash etc. Further the payment can be provided as value added to an open and or closed loop prepaid gift account. The portion of funds transferred from the first prepaid gift account associated with the first prepaid gift to the second prepaid gift account can be the full portion of funds in the first prepaid gift account or any amount of the funds in the first prepaid gift account. The funds transferred to the second prepaid gift account can also come from a separate source such as a third prepaid gift account rather than the first prepaid gift account.

The system deactivates the first prepaid gift account associated with the first prepaid gift to prevent fraud and protect the parties involved in the exchange and or any party having an interest in the transaction. The system can deactivate the first prepaid gift account by closing the first prepaid gift account withdrawing the funds from the first prepaid gift account suspending the first prepaid gift account implementing prepaid gift account restrictions etc. The system can check that the owner of the first prepaid gift account is not engaged in fraud with the first prepaid gift account and gathering and verifying personal information such as an address social security number driver s license number credit card number and credit card account information of the owner of the first prepaid gift account. The information used to identify the first prepaid gift account and check for fraud can be provided by or obtained from a user a device a merchant a file a program a prepaid gift account issued as a physical card or as an account number a network etc. For example the system can require the user to provide user and or prepaid gift account identification information. The system can obtain information identifying the prepaid gift account from a physical card associated with a prepaid gift account. For example the prepaid gift account owner can swipe a physical card associated with a prepaid gift through a physical card reader so the system can read the information identifying the prepaid gift account.

The system can divide the first prepaid gift account associated with the first prepaid gift into multiple prepaid gift accounts. For example the system can generate new prepaid gift accounts for multiple new prepaid gifts transfer funds from the first prepaid gift account associated with the first prepaid gift to the new prepaid gift accounts deactivate the first prepaid gift account associated with the first prepaid gift and offer the new prepaid gift accounts for resale as new prepaid gifts. The system can also combine multiple prepaid gift accounts of prepaid gifts generate a new larger prepaid gift account for the prepaid gifts and deactivate the multiple prepaid gift accounts.

The new prepaid gift can be closed loop or open loop and issued as a physical card or as an account number delivered to the prepaid account holder via text message email or as data displayed on an application residing on a mobile computing device such as a mobile telecommunications device a mobile computing device such as a laptop computer smart phone or tablet computer or a non mobile computer device such as a personal computer system personal gaming system or satellite or cable television system.

Various embodiments of the disclosure are discussed in detail below. While specific implementations are discussed it should be understood that this is done for illustration purposes only. A person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that other components and configurations may be used without parting from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

With reference to an exemplary system includes a general purpose computing device including a processing unit CPU or processor and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM to the processor . These and other modules can be configured to control the processor to perform various actions. Other system memory may be available for use as well. It can be appreciated that the disclosure may operate on a computing device with more than one processor or on a group or cluster of computing devices networked together to provide greater processing capability. The processor can include any general purpose processor and a hardware module or software module such as module module and module stored in storage device configured to control the processor as well as a special purpose processor where software instructions are incorporated into the actual processor design. The processor may essentially be a completely self contained computing system containing multiple cores or processors a bus memory controller cache etc. A multi core processor may be symmetric or asymmetric.

The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. A basic input output BIOS stored in ROM or the like may provide the basic routine that helps to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up. The computing device further includes storage devices such as a hard disk drive a magnetic disk drive an optical disk drive tape drive or the like. The storage device can include software modules for controlling the processor . Other hardware or software modules are contemplated. The storage device is connected to the system bus by a drive interface. The drives and the associated computer readable storage media provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device . In one aspect a hardware module that performs a particular function includes the software component stored in a tangible and or intangible computer readable medium in connection with the necessary hardware components such as the processor bus display and so forth to carry out the function. The basic components are known to those of skill in the art and appropriate variations are contemplated depending on the type of device such as whether the device is a small handheld computing device a desktop computer or a computer server.

Although the exemplary embodiment described herein employs the hard disk it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of computer readable media which can store data that are accessible by a computer such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks cartridges random access memories RAMs read only memory ROM a cable or wireless signal containing a bit stream and the like may also be used in the exemplary operating environment. Tangible computer readable storage media expressly exclude media such as energy carrier signals electromagnetic waves and signals per se.

To enable user interaction with the computing device an input device represents any number of input mechanisms such as a microphone for speech a touch sensitive screen for gesture or graphical input keyboard mouse motion input speech and so forth. The input device may be used by the presenter to indicate the beginning of a speech search query. An output device can also be one or more of a number of output mechanisms known to those of skill in the art. In some instances multimodal systems enable a user to provide multiple types of input to communicate with the computing device . The communications interface generally governs and manages the user input and system output. There is no restriction on operating on any particular hardware arrangement and therefore the basic features here may easily be substituted for improved hardware or firmware arrangements as they are developed.

For clarity of explanation the illustrative system embodiment is presented as including individual functional blocks including functional blocks labeled as a processor or processor . The functions these blocks represent may be provided through the use of either shared or dedicated hardware including but not limited to hardware capable of executing software and hardware such as a processor that is purpose built to operate as an equivalent to software executing on a general purpose processor. For example the functions of one or more processors presented in may be provided by a single shared processor or multiple processors. Use of the term processor should not be construed to refer exclusively to hardware capable of executing software. Illustrative embodiments may include microprocessor and or digital signal processor DSP hardware read only memory ROM for storing software performing the operations discussed below and random access memory RAM for storing results. Very large scale integration VLSI hardware embodiments as well as custom VLSI circuitry in combination with a general purpose DSP circuit may also be provided.

The logical operations of the various embodiments are implemented as 1 a sequence of computer implemented steps operations or procedures running on a programmable circuit within a general use computer 2 a sequence of computer implemented steps operations or procedures running on a specific use programmable circuit and or 3 interconnected machine modules or program engines within the programmable circuits. The system shown in can practice all or part of the recited methods can be a part of the recited systems and or can operate according to instructions in the recited tangible computer readable storage media. Generally speaking such logical operations can be implemented as modules configured to control the processor to perform particular functions according to the programming of the module. For example illustrates three modules Mod Mod and Mod which are modules configured to control the processor . These modules may be stored on the storage device and loaded into RAM or memory at runtime or may be stored as would be known in the art in other computer readable memory locations.

Having disclosed some components of a computing system the disclosure now turns to a discussion of prepaid gift accounts followed by a description of the exemplary multi process secure gateway configuration shown in . A more detailed discussion of generating accounts for prepaid gifts will then follow.

Prepaid gift accounts are divided into open loop and closed loop prepaid gifts. Typically issuing banks or credit card companies issue open loop prepaid gift accounts example VISA MASTERCARD AMEX or DISCOVER which can be redeemed by virtually any business entity. These differ from closed loop prepaid gift accounts which are typically issued by a specific store or restaurant and can be only redeemed by the issuing provider example SEARS RED LOBSTER TARGET . Prepaid gift accounts can be issued as open loop or closed loop physical cards or as an account number delivered or the information associated with the account is delivered to the prepaid account holder or to some other person or device via text message email or as data displayed on an application residing on a mobile computing device such as a mobile telecommunications device a mobile computing device such as a laptop computer smart phone or tablet computer or a non mobile computer device such as a personal computer system personal gaming system or satellite or cable television system. Information associated with the accounts can be delivered in any fashion as noted above.

The disclosure now turns to which illustrates a multi process secure gateway configuration . The multi process secure gateway can be implemented as a local or remote server a group of tightly or loosely interconnected servers integrated as a software module within a point of sale device or as any other suitable device software or combination thereof. In the multi process secure gateway is shown as a single conceptual server available over a network B such as the public telephone network or the Internet. The principles set forth herein can be applied to local area networks wide area networks virtual private networks intranets home networks corporate networks wireless ad hoc networks peer to peer networks and virtually any other form of network.

The multi process secure gateway interacts with various requesters such as kiosks mobile devices desktop computers and merchants point of sale devices which submit information uniquely identifying prepaid gift accounts associated with prepaid gifts. Mobile device also represents a standard telephone as well as communication with an interactive voice response system. Each of these devices can interact with the secure gateway through different protocols such as a direct network connection an HTTP based portal SMS messages telephone interactive voice response systems point of sale POS terminals browsers plug ins Secure Shell File Transfer Protocol Internet Protocol Simple Mail Transfer Protocol Telnet etc.

In the case of merchants each point of sale of the merchant can connect to a centralized merchant server not shown which relays requests to the secure gateway on behalf of all the merchant point of sale devices. Other configurations also exist. In one aspect this process may be called Cash4Card name used for description purposes only . Merchants kiosks other devices and or locations including online storefronts which provide an interface to the secure gateway can provide an easily recognizable visual or other indication readily indicating to potential customers that they accept gift cards codes under the Cash4Card program. The indication can be a window sticker an online image or other sign displayed in a manner similar to the well known overlapping circles for MASTERCARD or the blue and orange bars over and under the word VISA .

The secure gateway interacts with multiple closed loop processors such as FIRSTDATA and CHASE PAYMENTECH over a network A such as the Internet. These processors are entities that process prepaid gift account such as FIRSTDATA and are different from a computer processor such as an AMD PHENOM II or INTEL CORE DUO. The secure gateway can perform any action on the prepaid gift account through the various prepaid gift account processors as if the secure gateway was a merchant. The secure gateway analyzes the submitted information to determine which closed loop processor handles that type of prepaid gift account. For example a particular series of numbers or letters can indicate that one prepaid gift account is honored by PAYMENTECH and another distinct set of numbers or letters indicates that another closed loop card code is honored by FIRSTDATA. The logic and analysis in the secure gateway can change from time to time as new types of prepaid gift account are issued by existing prepaid gift account processors or as the secure gateway adds interfaces for new prepaid gift account processors. The secure gateway can include a common application programmer interface API which defines actions which may be performed through the prepaid gift account processors . The API translates API calls to the corresponding specific sets of proprietary interactions with the various closed loop processors which may be very different between prepaid gift account processors .

The secure gateway determines the balance of the prepaid gift account from the prepaid gift account processor and offers to purchase the prepaid gift account from the requestor typically at a price lower than the face value of the prepaid gift account though not always and can be at or above the face value . If the requestor provides an indication of agreement to sell the prepaid gift account then the secure gateway deactivates the prepaid gift account associated with the submitted information issues a new prepaid gift account in that amount and pays the purchase price to the requestor through a payment entity . The gateway can also provide instructions to other entities to perform the deactivation issuance payment and other steps. The payment entity can be part of the secure gateway part of a merchant point of sale equipment or a separate entity altogether.

The secure gateway can provide additional instructions regarding how to transfer payment to the requestor. Some examples of how to transfer payment include mailing a check to the requestor paying cash to the requestor mailing a new prepaid gift account issued as a physical card to the requestor texting emailing or displaying on an application on a mobile or non mobile computing device to the requestor the necessary information to use a non physical prepaid gift account such as an account number and PIN notifying a local financial service to prepare an amount of money for pickup such as MONEYGRAM or WESTERN UNION transferring funds to an electronic account such as PAYPAL paying a bill of the requestor transferring money to a requestor s existing credit card or debit card or granting store credit to the requestor. The payment entity can also provide payment to the requestor using other suitable approaches.

In one embodiment the secure gateway identifies an prepaid gift account associated with a prepaid gift and determines the balance of the account from the prepaid gift account processor . The secure gateway then presents the owner of the prepaid gift account with an offer to purchase the prepaid gift account for an offer amount which can be equal to the balance below the balance or above the balance. If the secure gateway receives an acceptance of the offer from the owner the secure gateway provides payment to the owner of at least a portion of the amount in the prepaid gift account generates a new prepaid gift account for a new prepaid gift transfers funds from the account to the new prepaid gift account deactivates the first prepaid gift account and offers the new prepaid gift account for resale as a new prepaid gift. The money funding the new prepaid gift account does not need to directly come from the first prepaid gift account. For example if a user has 100 in prepaid gift account for OLIVE GARDEN and desires to sell that prepaid gift account because they would prefer money the system may pay the person 90 for the prepaid gift account from the first prepaid gift account or a separate account then transfer a portion of the money from the first prepaid gift account to the new account and close down the original prepaid gift account such that the person cannot commit fraud by using the first prepaid gift account after being paid for the first prepaid gift account. Suppose that the new prepaid gift account now has 90 in it. The new prepaid gift associated with that new prepaid gift account can then be sold and it could be for OLIVE GARDEN another business or may be a general open loop prepaid gift account. The secure gateway can offer the new prepaid gift account for resale to any other person. Moreover the secure gateway can provide payment via the payment entity .

In one embodiment the secure gateway transfers the new prepaid gift account to a reseller. The reseller can offer to sell the new prepaid gift account for less than its face value. For example if the user submits a 200 SEARS gift prepaid gift account the secure gateway can determine that SEARS prepaid gift accounts in that denomination are in high demand and offer to purchase the 200 Sears prepaid gift account for 135. The user accepts the offer and the secure gateway pays the user 135. The secure gateway deactivates the 200 SEARS prepaid gift accountant reissues a new 200 SEARS prepaid gift account which can be represented as numbers stored by the reseller. The reseller then offers the 200 SEARS prepaid gift account for sale to the general public at a discount rate of 170 a 15 discount off the face value. When a customer purchases the 200 SEARS prepaid gift account the reseller sell the new prepaid gift account as a physical card or as a physical plastic encoded card or as an account number or information associated with the account number delivered to the prepaid account holder or another person or device via text message email or as data displayed on an application residing on a mobile computing device such as a mobile telecommunications device a mobile computing device such as a laptop computer smart phone or tablet computer or a non mobile computer device such as a personal computer system personal gaming system or satellite or cable television system. In this case the reseller earns the difference between the purchase price 135 and the discount rate 170 or 35. The reseller can operate as a brick and mortar retail store an online storefront an online auction or any other suitable sales outlet.

In another aspect the reseller purchases a prepaid gift account from a user at or above its face value i.e. purchases a 100 SEARS prepaid gift account for 100 or for 110. In this case the reseller can make a profit by providing the payment for the prepaid gift account on a general purpose reloadable prepaid gift account run by the reseller. Then the reseller makes a profit from interest float interchange and or monthly minimum fees. The reseller method described herein may also be provided as a tool by another entity that franchises or receives a fee for use of the tool.

Having disclosed some basic system components and concepts the disclosure now turns to the exemplary method embodiments shown in . For the sake of clarity the methods are discussed in terms of an exemplary system as shown in configured to practice the methods. The steps outlined herein are exemplary and can be implemented in any combination thereof including combinations that exclude add or modify certain steps.

The system receives a confirmation of an amount of money in the prepaid gift account . The system can interact with a multi process secure gateway as shown in which communicates with one or more prepaid gift account processors to verify the prepaid gift account s validity and the amount in the prepaid gift account. The system presents an owner of the prepaid gift account with the amount of money in the prepaid gift account and an offer to pay an offer amount for the prepaid gift account . For example the system can communicate to the user that the prepaid gift account has 100 and offer to purchase the prepaid gift account for 50. The offer amount can be based on a resale velocity of prepaid gift accounts of a similar type as the prepaid gift accounts inventory levels and or any other relevant business metrics.

In a stub hub or auction based model the offer to pay the offer amount is time limited and or conditional upon a resale of the prepaid gift account. The prepaid gift account is effectively offered up on consignment meaning that the system provides payment to the owner of the offer amount upon resale to a third party. In this aspect the system can deactivate or suspend the prepaid gift account after the owner accepts the offer and reactivate or reinstate the prepaid gift account after the time limited offer expires without resale. The system can deactivate a prepaid gift account by simply withdrawing all the funds so that the prepaid gift account has a balance of 0.00. The system can notify the prepaid gift account owner when a sale occurs when payment is sent etc. The system can also notify the user that a time limited consignment is expiring or expired. In this case the system can present the user with the option to end the consignment resume the consignment accept a lower offer price to promote a speedier sale etc. The owner can set the system to automatically renew the consignment for a number of time intervals or indefinitely.

The system receives an indication that the owner accepts the offer and receives the amount of money from the prepaid gift account . The system can at this point generate a new prepaid gift account. The system provides payment to the owner of the offer amount in one or more of the payment methods set forth above. In one specific example the system pays the owner by adding value to a new or existing prepaid gift account. In another example the system receives from the owner a set of smaller values totaling a sum equal to or lesser than the amount of money in the prepaid gift accounts and divides the amount of money in the first prepaid gift account into new smaller prepaid gift accounts in denominations of the set of smaller values. The system provides these new prepaid gift accounts to the owner as payment. A concrete example of this scenario is a user who submits a 300 prepaid gift account to BEST BUY but does not want or need anything from BEST BUY or does not live sufficiently close to a BEST BUY. The user can sell the 300 prepaid gift account to the system for 175 and split that 175 into open or closed loop prepaid gift accounts in varying denominations. The user can request a 100 closed loop prepaid gift account to TARGET a 50 open loop prepaid gift account and a 25 closed loop prepaid gift account to TOYS US. The user can then regive these prepaid gift accounts to others. The user can request that the system deliver the prepaid gift account or information associated with or identifying the account or the existence of the account to a third party as a gift. For example Abe sells a closed loop prepaid gift account for a prepaid gift account to WAL MART. Abe can request that the system send the prepaid gift account to Betty his wife as an anniversary present. Users can request that the system hold the prepaid gift account and deliver it or data about the account on a specific day to a specific person. Users can further provide a personalized message for delivery with the prepaid gift account. In one aspect the system provides users with a management interface to edit details of held prepaid gift account such as cancelling the hold delivering early editing the personalized message and other management functions.

The system can provide a mechanism for applying funds on an unwanted prepaid gift account toward payments of a bill utility bill car loan student loan payment cell phone bill etc. . As an example Tom presents a 50 SEARS prepaid gift account to a Cash4Card site which offers Tom 40 for the prepaid gift account. Tom elects to receive the 40 by way of entering the Third Party they wish to pay the funds to and the Cash4Card site makes payment on Tom s behalf. The Cash4Card site can then prompt Tom to enter additional information such as an account number invoice number or bill number.

In another variation the owner had a 100 prepaid gift account and purchased merchandise with it such that 32.31 remained on the prepaid gift account. The system offers to purchase the 32.31 prepaid gift account for 19.39. The owner wants to use the offered purchase price as a prepaid gift account but doesn t want to give a prepaid gift with a non round number. The user can pay extra money in addition to the offered purchase price to obtain a prepaid gift account with the desired round number such as an extra 0.61 to round up to 20 or an extra 5.61 to round up to 25.

In one aspect the system offers for sale the new prepaid gift account at a second offer amount and upon a user accepting the second offer for sale and upon receiving payment generates and transfers the new prepaid gift account to the user. The user can request that the new prepaid gift account be personalized based on input text data images sounds or other information.

First the system identifies a first prepaid gift account associated with a first prepaid gift . The system can identify the first prepaid gift account based on a password a security code a passphrase a number symbol a bar code an identifier a description account data account characteristics information associated with an owner merchant information etc. The system can check that the owner of the first prepaid gift account is not engaged in fraud with the first prepaid gift account and gather personal information such as a driver s license number or credit card code number. The information used to identify the first prepaid gift account and or check for fraud can be provided by or obtained from a user a device a merchant a file a program a prepaid gift account encoded onto a physical card a network etc. For example the system can require the user to provide relevant information.

Further the system can read information identifying the prepaid gift account from a physical card. The prepaid gift account owner can swipe the physical card through a card reader so the system can read the information identifying the prepaid gift account. The physical card reader can be part of the system or a separate system. For instance the physical card reader can be a remote device which communicates with the system via a network. The prepaid gift account owner can also insert the physical card into a card reader within a kiosk in a manner similar to an Automated Teller Machine ATM . In one aspect a kiosk or other location which accepts and or reads physical cards can include a recycling receptacle for collecting used physical cards. The collected used physical cards can be recycled or destroyed. Certain prepaid gift account issuers may require this feature to keep deactivated or invalid prepaid gift accounts out of circulation. The prepaid gift account owner can also enter the account number associated with the prepaid gift account into a POS terminal an application on a mobile computing device or personal computer which transmits the account number to the system via the network.

The system can also receive a confirmation of an amount of money in the prepaid gift account. Receiving a confirmation can include interacting with a multi process secure gateway which communicates with one or more prepaid gift account processors. For example the system can interact with a multi process secure gateway as shown in which communicates with one or more prepaid gift account processors to verify the prepaid gift account s validity and the amount in the prepaid gift account.

Then the system presents an owner of the first prepaid gift with an offer to purchase the first prepaid gift account associated with the first prepaid gift for an offer amount . The system can present the owner of the first prepaid gift account with an offer to pay an amount of money for the first prepaid gift account. For example the system can communicate to the owner that the first prepaid gift account has 100 and offer to purchase the first prepaid gift account for 50. The offer amount can be based on a prepaid gift account balance an account type a risk an estimated value a contract a feature an interest a transaction history an identity associated with a party involved in the transaction a term and so forth. The offer amount can also be based on a resale velocity of prepaid gift accounts of a similar type as the prepaid gift accounts inventory levels and or any other relevant business metrics.

Moreover the offer to purchase the prepaid gift account can be time limited and conditioned upon a resale of a different prepaid gift account which can be a new prepaid gift account based from the prepaid gift account associated with the offer. In this variation the system provides payment to the owner for the prepaid gift account only after the resale. Here the system can deactivate the first prepaid gift account after the owner accepts the offer and if the new prepaid gift account does not sell reactivate the first prepaid gift account associated with the offer. The system can reactivate the first prepaid gift account after the time limited offer expires without resale.

In a stub hub or auction based model the offer to pay the offer amount is time limited and or conditional upon a resale of the first prepaid gift account. The prepaid gift account is effectively offered up on consignment meaning that the system provides payment to the owner of the offer amount upon resale to a third party. In this aspect the system can deactivate or suspend the first prepaid gift account after the owner accepts the offer and reactivate or reinstate the first prepaid gift account after the time limited offer expires without resale. The system can deactivate the first prepaid gift account by simply withdrawing all the funds so that the first prepaid gift account has a balance of 0.00. The system can notify the first prepaid gift account owner when a sale occurs when payment is sent etc. The system can also notify the user that a time limited consignment is expiring or expired. In this case the system can present the user with the option to end the consignment resume the consignment accept a lower offer price to promote a speedier sale etc. The owner can set the system to automatically renew the consignment for a number of time intervals or indefinitely.

Next the system receives from the owner an acceptance of the offer and based on the acceptance provides payment to the owner for the first prepaid gift account associated with the first prepaid gift . In one embodiment the system receives a counteroffer from the owner and based on the counteroffer provides payment to the owner for the first prepaid gift account associated with the first prepaid gift. The payment can include a check a payment of a bill or debt of the owner loading an amount to a new or existing credit a debit card or prepaid gift a deposit into an existing or new bank account cash etc. Further the payment can be provided as value added to an open and or closed loop prepaid gift account. In one embodiment the system receives an amount of money from the owner and provides payment to the owner by providing a new prepaid gift account to the owner plus the additional amount of money.

Based on the acceptance the system also generates a second prepaid gift account for a second prepaid gift and transfers at least a portion of funds from the first prepaid gift account associated with the first prepaid gift to the second prepaid gift account . The portion of funds transferred from the first prepaid gift account associated with the first prepaid gift to the new prepaid gift account can be the full portion of funds in the first prepaid gift account or any amount of the funds in the first prepaid gift account. In addition to the portion of funds transferred from the first prepaid gift account associated with the first prepaid gift the system can transfer additional funds from another source and or prepaid gift account. Moreover the money funding the second prepaid gift account does not have to directly come from the first prepaid gift account. For example if a user has 100 in a prepaid gift account for OLIVE GARDEN and desires to sell that prepaid gift account because they would prefer money the system can pay the person 90 for the prepaid gift account from the first prepaid gift account and or a separate account then transfer a portion of the money from the first prepaid gift account to the second prepaid gift account and close down the first prepaid gift account such that the person cannot commit fraud by using the first prepaid gift account after being paid for the first prepaid gift account. Suppose that the second prepaid gift account now has 90 in it. The second prepaid gift account can then be sold and the second prepaid gift account can be for OLIVE GARDEN another business or may be a general open loop prepaid gift account.

The second prepaid gift account can be a closed loop or open loop gift card for example. The prepaid gift account can be issued as a physical card or as an account number delivered to the prepaid account holder via text message email or as data displayed on an application residing on a mobile computing device such as a mobile telecommunications device a mobile computing device such as a laptop computer smart phone or tablet computer or a non mobile computer device such as a personal computer system personal gaming system or satellite or cable television system.

After transferring funds to the second prepaid gift account the system can also receive a confirmation of an amount of money in the second prepaid gift account. Receiving a confirmation can include interacting with a multi process secure gateway which communicates with one or more account processors. For example the system can interact with a multi process secure gateway as shown in which communicates with one or more account processors to verify the prepaid gift account s validity and the amount in the prepaid gift account.

The system then deactivates the first prepaid gift account associated with the first prepaid gift . The system deactivates the first prepaid gift account to prevent fraud and protect the parties involved in the exchange and or any party having an interest in the transaction. The system can deactivate the first prepaid gift account by closing the first prepaid gift account and or withdrawing the funds from the first prepaid gift account. The system can also deactivate the first prepaid gift account by suspending the first prepaid gift account and or implementing a restriction. The first prepaid gift account deactivation can be triggered by an event such as a confirmation an acceptance a counteroffer a connection an input an output an alert a security threat a payment a promise an exchange an error a request fraudulent activity and so forth. The first prepaid gift account deactivation can also be based on a schedule a parameter a threshold a status a condition a setting a rule a security risk and so forth.

Finally the system offers the second prepaid gift account for resale as a new prepaid gift to a person other than the owner . The system can also offer for sale the second prepaid gift account at a specific offer amount and upon receiving a payment or acceptance from a second user transfer the second prepaid gift account to the second user. The second prepaid gift account can be personalized based on input from the second user.

In one embodiment the system auctions the second prepaid gift account for resale as a new prepaid gift to the highest bidder. In another embodiment the system divides the first prepaid gift account associated with the first prepaid gift into multiple prepaid gift accounts and offers the multiple prepaid gift accounts for resale as new prepaid gifts. For example the system can generate new prepaid gift accounts for multiple new prepaid gifts transfer a portion of funds from the first prepaid gift account associated with the first prepaid gift to the new prepaid gift accounts deactivate the first prepaid gift account associated with the first prepaid gift and offer the new prepaid gift accounts for resale as new prepaid gifts. The system can also divide a prepaid gift account into prepaid gift accounts in denominations of a set of smaller values deactivate the prepaid gift account and offer the new prepaid gift accounts for resale. Here the system can provide one or more of the prepaid gift accounts to the owner as payment and or offer one or more of the prepaid gift accounts for resale as new prepaid gift accounts. The system can also take funds from multiple prepaid gift accounts combine them into a new larger prepaid gift account deactivate the multiple prepaid gift accounts and offer the new larger prepaid gift account for resale.

Furthermore the system can restrict the amount of money the owner of the prepaid gift account can redeem over a period of time. The system can also restrict the number of prepaid gift accounts redeemed over a period of time. For example the system can impose a 1 000 per month or 3 prepaid gift account per day limit. Moreover the system can require the prepaid gift account owner to create or log in to a prepaid gift account to redeem prepaid gift accounts. The system can also request that prepaid gift account owners enter driver s license information social security number credit card code information and or any other information. This information can be used to direct payment to the owner and or check that the owner is not engaged in fraud with the prepaid gift account. In a related variation the system can check that the owner is not engaged or has engaged in fraud with the prepaid gift account and gather personal information such as a driver s license number address social security number and or credit card prepaid gift account information. If the system determines that the owner is engaged or has engaged in fraud it can deactivate the prepaid gift account and or refuse the transaction. The system can also monitor restrict and or blacklist the owner if the system finds suspicious activity at any time.

The system can notify the owner when an acceptance is received a payment is sent a new prepaid gift account is generated funds are transferred the first prepaid gift account is deactivated a sale occurs a confirmation is received fraudulent activity is detected a restriction is encountered an expiration is approaching or has been exceeded etc. The system can also provide similar notifications to a merchant and or any other interested party. For example the system can generate an alert to the merchant and or a law enforcement entity if it detects fraudulent activity.

The present claims focus on the chopping up model shown in . A method includes receiving a request from a user to convert a closed loop card code having a value amount into two different closed loop cards codes . The system divides the closed loop card code into a first closed loop card code having a first value amount and a second closed loop card code having a second value amount wherein the first value amount and the second value amount add up to no more than the value amount . For example the user may have 100 on a Home Depot gift card and want to break that up into two 45 gift cards to Olive Garden. Upon the request the system would chop up the Home Depot card code into two small valued card codes. The system then offers the first closed loop card code and the second closed loop card code . The first closed loop card code and the second closed loop card code can be offered to the user as payment for the original closed loop card code or the user can be paid a dollar amount for the original closed loop card code and the system could chop up the original closed loop card code and sell them perhaps at a discount to one or two other people. Of course the chopping up of the original card code can be done for more than two resulting card codes as well as for a combination of cards and codes. For example the 100 Home Depot card could be chopped up into a 30 Olive Card Closed loop gift card and a 65 open loop gift code and offered sold to different people.

The first value amount and the second value amount can equal the value amount of the original card code and one of the first closed loop card code and the second closed loop card code are personalized based on input from the user. In a topping up model the method can include receiving an additional amount of money from the user to yield a new value amount comprising the value amount plus the additional amount of money. In this example the system could receive an additional 25 from the user to make the 100 Home Depot gift card result in a total of 125 which gift card code could then be chopped up as described herein. In some cases some of the gift card code has been used so that it is an odd amount such as 91.25. The ability to top up that to a more easily choppable amount like 100 is for convenience.

The first value amount and the second value amount may add up to no more than the new value amount unless there is a merchant offer that can cause the amount to be higher. The system deactivates the closed loop card code to prevent fraud. The operation of offering the first closed loop card code and the second closed loop card code can also include offering the first closed loop card code and the second closed loop card code to one of the user and a person other than the user.

Embodiments within the scope of the present disclosure may also include tangible computer readable storage media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such computer readable storage media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer including the functional design of any special purpose processor as discussed above. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can include RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions data structures or processor chip design. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or combination thereof to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of the computer readable media.

Computer executable instructions include for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Computer executable instructions also include program modules that are executed by computers in stand alone or network environments. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures objects and the functions inherent in the design of special purpose processors etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer executable instructions associated data structures and program modules represent examples of the program code means for executing steps of the methods disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represents examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that other embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced in network computing environments with many types of computer system configurations including personal computers hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked either by hardwired links wireless links or by a combination thereof through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

The various embodiments described above are provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed to limit the scope of the disclosure. Those skilled in the art will readily recognize various modifications and changes that may be made to the principles described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described herein and without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

