---

title: Dynamic generation of customized content for display on a network device
abstract: Methods and apparatuses are described for dynamically generating customized content for display on a network device. A server computing device receives a plurality of data elements from a network device upon initiation of an interaction between the network device and a tag in proximity to the network device. The server generates a content payload using at least a portion of the received data elements, where the content payload comprises source code defining content for display, a style of the content for display, and a layout of the content for display. The generating step includes querying a content repository based upon the received data elements to retrieve portions of the source code and aggregating the retrieved portions of the source code to form the content payload. The server computing device receives a request for the content payload, and transmits the content payload for generation of a graphical display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09591451&OS=09591451&RS=09591451
owner: Blue Bite LLC
number: 09591451
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20161026
---
This application relates generally to methods and apparatuses including computer program products for dynamically generating customized content for display on a network device.

Use of data encoded tags to store and make available information about a related item has become increasingly common. Tags utilize different types of communication and encoding standards such as Bluetooth radio frequency identification RFID near field communication NFC two dimensional 2D bar code or quick response QR code among others. Portable wireless devices such as smartphones and tablets are able to read the tags and collect the information stored on the tags. The typical use of such tags is to encode a static data item on the tag that acts as a pointer or an instruction to a wireless device that reads the tag. For example the data item can include a static URL that when accessed by the device instructs the device to retrieve static content e.g. a webpage an image from the network address identified in the URL.

However many content delivery entities want to provide more customized and personalized content delivery to individual network devices that interact with such data encoded tags where the content delivery mechanism dynamically takes user specific considerations device specific considerations application specific considerations and even environment specific considerations into account. Because existing tag technology is limited to having a small number of discrete and static data elements pre encoded onto tags such technology cannot deliver dynamically generated interaction specific content to network devices in this manner.

Therefore what is needed is a method and system for dynamically generating customized content for display on a network device. The techniques described herein advantageously provide for a dynamic and flexible aggregation of source code to produce customized graphical display content based upon specific attributes and characteristics of an interaction between a network device and a tag in proximity to the network device. The methods and systems enable the delivery of customized content to a network device without requiring the content repository to be preconfigured with a limited number of static content types per interaction or to be preconfigured with separate sets of content for all possible interactions and associated attributes.

The invention in one aspect features a method of dynamically generating customized content for display on a network device. A server computing device receives a plurality of data elements from a network device upon initiation of an interaction between the network device and a tag in proximity to the network device. The plurality of data elements includes tag identification data tag location data tag metadata network device identification data network device location data network device application data network device sensor data user identification data and environmental data. The server computing device generates a content payload using at least a portion of the received data elements. The content payload includes source code defining content for display a style of the content for display and a layout of the content for display. The server computing device queries a content repository based upon the received data elements to retrieve portions of the source code and aggregates the retrieved portions of the source code to form the content payload. The server computing device receives a request for the content payload from the network device. The server computing device transmits the content payload to the network device for generation of a graphical display using source code from the content payload.

The invention in another aspect features a system for dynamically generating customized content for display on a network device. The system includes a server computing device configured to receive a plurality of data elements from a network device upon initiation of an interaction between the network device and a tag in proximity to the network device. The plurality of data elements includes tag identification data tag location data tag metadata network device identification data network device location data network device application data network device sensor data user identification data and environmental data. The server computing device is configured to generate a content payload using at least a portion of the received data elements. The content payload includes source code defining content for display a style of the content for display and a layout of the content for display. The server computing device is configured to query a content repository based upon the received data elements to retrieve portions of the source code and aggregates the retrieved portions of the source code to form the content payload. The server computing device is configured to receive a request for the content payload from the network device. The server computing device is configured to transmit the content payload to the network device for generation of a graphical display using source code from the content payload.

The invention in another aspect features a computer program product tangibly embodied in a non transitory computer readable storage device for dynamically generating customized content for display on a network device. The computer program product includes instructions that when executed cause a server computing device to receive a plurality of data elements from a network device upon initiation of an interaction between the network device and a tag in proximity to the network device. The plurality of data elements includes tag identification data tag location data tag metadata network device identification data network device location data network device application data network device sensor data user identification data and environmental data. The computer program product includes instructions that when executed cause the server computing device to generate a content payload using at least a portion of the received data elements. The content payload includes source code defining content for display a style of the content for display and a layout of the content for display. The computer program product includes instructions that when executed cause the server computing device to query a content repository based upon the received data elements to retrieve portions of the source code and aggregates the retrieved portions of the source code to form the content payload. The computer program product includes instructions that when executed cause the server computing device to receive a request for the content payload from the network device. The computer program product includes instructions that when executed cause the server computing device to transmit the content payload to the network device for generation of a graphical display using source code from the content payload.

Any of the above aspects can include one or more of the following features. In some embodiments the tag comprises an NFC tag a BLE beacon a QR code tag an RFID tag a WiFi access point a ZigBee module or a URL. In some embodiments the interaction comprises a scan of the tag by circuitry of the network device.

In some embodiments the server computing device redirects the network device to a second server computing device upon generation of the content payload using a URL associated with the second server computing device and receives the request for the content payload from the second server computing device. In some embodiments the server computing device generates a security key associated with the content payload at the time that the content payload is generated and transmits the security key to the second server computing device as part of the redirecting step. In some embodiments the second server computing device retrieves the content payload using the security key.

In some embodiments the network device uses web browser software to connect to the server computing device and to display the content payload. In some embodiments the network device uses a native application to connect to the server computing device and to display the content payload.

In some embodiments the server computing device retrieves source code from a third party server computing device upon receiving the request for the content payload from the network device and adds the source code from the third party server computing device into the content payload. In some embodiments the network device location data comprises IP location data GPS data or geolocation data. In some embodiments the network device identification data comprises operating system data manufacturer data device type data carrier data or device metadata.

In some embodiments at least a portion of the plurality of data elements received from the network device is stored in a cookie on the network device. In some embodiments the content payload comprises a JSON file with one or more key value pairs corresponding to the content for display the style of the content for display or the layout of the content for display.

Other aspects and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating the principles of the invention by way of example only.

The network device uses software and circuitry e.g. processor memory to execute applications to communicate with and read information from the tag and to communicate with the server computing device and the web server via the communications network for the purpose of transmitting requests for content to e.g. the server computing device and receiving the requested content from e.g. the web server . In some embodiments the network device is a mobile computing device such as a smartphone or tablet e.g. Apple iOS Windows and or Android based device that uses native application software and or browser software installed on the device to connect to the communications network via embedded hardware such as a Wi Fi antenna. Although a mobile computing device is identified herein as an exemplary embodiment it should be appreciated that the network device can be embodied in other forms such as an Internet of Things IoT device a desktop laptop computing device a terminal and the like without departing from the scope of invention.

The network device can also include or otherwise be coupled to components e.g. short range wireless circuitry scanner reader that enable the network device to electronically retrieve data from a tag that is in proximity to the device e.g. BLE beacons NFC tags RFID tags WiFi access points ZigBee modules and to read other types of tags such as bar codes or Quick Response QR codes via image capture and or scanning. As such in some embodiments the tag is a type of electronic tag that communicates with the mobile device via a wireless standard e.g. RFID NFC or in other embodiments the tag is a printed tag e.g. barcode QR code that the mobile device scans or reads. Generally the tag is encoded with one or more data elements such as tag identification data tag metadata tag location data and so forth that are retrievable by the network device when the tag is activated accessed or otherwise read by the device . In some embodiments the tag can be a Uniform Resource Locator URL that a user of the network device enters into e.g. browser software on the network device in order to access the related information. In some embodiments the tag is embedded in another article to which the tag is logically associated for example the tag can be affixed to or embedded within an item of clothing and the tag is configured to be associated with specific characteristics and attributes of the item e.g. color price size etc. .

The communications network enables components of the system to communicate with each other using e.g. a packet based protocol. The network may be a local network such as a LAN or a wide area network such as the Internet. In some embodiments the network is comprised of several discrete networks and or sub networks including related routing load balancing and traffic metering hardware .

The server computing device is a combination of hardware e.g. a processor memory modules other circuitry and software including specialized software modules executing on the processor and interacting with the memory modules to receive data from the network device the data sources and the web server to transmit data to the network device the data sources and the web server and to otherwise communicate with these devices in order to perform functions for dynamically generating customized content for display on the network device as described herein. The server computing device includes a content payload generation module and a content payload delivery module as mentioned above that execute on and or interact with the processor of the server computing device .

In some embodiments the content payload generation module and a content payload delivery module are specialized sets of computer software instructions programmed onto one or more dedicated processors in the server computing device and can include specifically designated memory locations and or registers for executing the specialized computer software instructions. Although the content payload generation module and a content payload delivery module are shown in as executing within the same server computing device in some embodiments the functionality of the content payload generation module and a content payload delivery module can be distributed among a plurality of server computing devices. As shown in the server computing device enables the content payload generation module and a content payload delivery module to communicate with each other in order to exchange data for the purposes of performing the described functions. It should be appreciated that any number of computing devices arranged in a variety of architectures resources and configurations e.g. cluster computing virtual computing cloud computing can be used without departing from the scope of the invention. The exemplary functionality of the content payload generation module and a content payload delivery module is described in detail throughout this specification.

The content payload generation module communicates with the network device and the data sources in order to e.g. receive requests for content from the network device identify and aggregate customized content from the data sources based upon the request. The content payload delivery module communicates with the web server computing device in order to e.g. transfer or otherwise make the customized content available to the network device via the web server .

The database is a computing device or in some embodiments a set of computing devices coupled to the server computing device and the database are configured to receive generate and store specific segments of data relating to the process of dynamically generating customized content for display on the network device as described herein. In some embodiments all or a portion of the database is integrated with the server computing device or in other embodiments the database is located on a separate computing device or devices. An exemplary database is a MySQL database available from Oracle Corp. of Redwood City Calif.

The web server computing device is a computing device that provides a web based software application accessible by browser software installed at the network device . For example the web server and the network device can establish a communication session via HTTP if communicating for example via a web browser or other protocol if communicating for example via a native app installed on the network device to exchange requests and responses relating to the delivery of customized content to the network device as described herein. It should be appreciated that a variety of different communication protocols can be used in conjunction with the systems and methods described herein.

In some embodiments the system further includes one or more other data source s that are coupled to the communications network and are accessible by the network device the server computing device and or the web server . For example the data source s can comprise data feeds or resources that the other components of the system access via e.g. an application programming interface API in order to retrieve information relating to the customized content being provided to the network device .

When the network device is positioned near brought in contact with or otherwise communicably coupled to the tag the network device is configured to read certain data elements from the tag . The plurality of data elements that the network device accesses on the tag can comprise but is not limited to tag identification data e.g. an object ID an app ID code hardware address or other identifier for the tag tag location data e.g. data that provides an indication of the physical location of the tag and tag metadata e.g. data about the characteristics or attributes of the tag itself and or data about the characteristics or attributes of another item with which the tag is associated . For example if the tag is affixed to a sales display in a retail environment the tag metadata may include data elements such as information about the attributes e.g. color size model no. and brand of the goods present on the sales display.

As mentioned above the network device reads one or more data elements from the tag . In some embodiments the network device further retrieves data elements associated with the network device s hardware and software a user of the network device and or an environment of the tag and or the network device . For example the network device can retrieve data elements such as an identifier of the network device e.g. IP address MAC address serial no. device name device ID and a location of the network device e.g. GPS coordinates geolocation information . The network device can retrieve data elements associated with the identification status and operation of software applications executing on the network device such as native applications and or browser based applications. The network device can retrieve data elements associated with the identification status and operation of hardware sensors embedded in or otherwise coupled to the network device such as accelerometers fingerprint scanners image capture devices microphones buttons light emitting devices and so forth. The network device can retrieve data elements associated with an environment of the tag and or the network device such as weather time of day traffic location context e.g. nearby points of interest city infrastructure information e.g. bus schedules and the like. The network device can retrieve data elements associated with a user of the network device such as a user ID name demographic information digital cookie and the like.

It should be appreciated that the above identified data elements that can be retrieved by the network device automatically upon initiation of the interaction with the tag . For example when the network device scans reads or otherwise interacts with the tag the network device automatically aggregates the data elements into a content request. The data elements can be stored on the tag locally on the network device in another data source e.g. data sources that are accessible by the network device or any combination thereof. During the interaction process the network device can use certain data elements retrieved from the tag and or stored locally on the network device in order to retrieve other data elements that may be stored externally e.g. on a networked data source . In one such example the network device can query a data source using an IP address assigned to the network device in order to obtain more detailed location information for the network device such as city state zip and the like.

As part of the interaction between the tag and the network device the network device receives or otherwise obtains an app ID e.g. URL which the network device uses to initiate communication with the server computing device . In one embodiment the tag may be encoded with a static URL that when received by the network device causes the network device to open local application software e.g. a browser and submit a request to the server computing device . It should be appreciated that in some embodiments the network device can receive or otherwise obtain other information about the identity of the tag that the device uses to initiate communication with the server computing device . For example the network device can read an object ID from the tag and pass the object ID to a native application on the network device which has an app ID e.g. preconfigured in the application software for the server computing device . In this example the network device does not retrieve an app ID from the tag itself.

Once the network device initiates a content request communication with the server computing device the content payload generation module receives the content request including all or a portion of the data elements collected by the network device and generates a content payload in response to the content request. Generally the content payload comprises source code e.g. HTML code JSON code that defines the content for display on the network device e.g. links images text a style of the content for display e.g. font color formatting and so forth and a layout of the content for display e.g. where the content is positioned on the screen of the network device . The source code is configured to be part of the generation of a graphical display on the network device when the source code is parsed by an application of the network device .

As part of the content payload generation process the content payload generation module uses at least a portion of the data elements submitted from the network device in the request in order to query the database for retrieval and aggregation of portions of the source code into the content payload. In an exemplary embodiment the content payload generation module dynamically generates a query comprised of key value pair expressions united by logical operators that when executed against the database returns source code relating to one or more of content to be displayed a style of the content to be displayed and a layout of the content to be displayed. This distinctive query language enables the content payload generation module to retrieve and aggregate specific source code based upon a wide variety of attributes and generate a content payload that may be different for each individual user network device but is capable of being displayed via the same type of request thereby creating a dynamic content generation methodology that can be delivered over an existing common request framework. Further detail with respect to the content payload generation and delivery is described below with respect to .

When the user s network device interacts with the tag the tag passes certain tag related data elements to the network device . As described previously the tag related data elements can include but is not limited to tag identification data e.g. an object ID an app ID code hardware address or other identifier for the tag tag location data e.g. data that provides an indication of the physical location of the tag and tag metadata e.g. data about the characteristics or attributes of the tag itself and or data about the characteristics or attributes of another item with which the tag is associated . In this example the tag passes a URL and an object ID to the network device .

The network device collects additional data elements using components and capabilities of the network device such as network device application data location data e.g. GPS coordinates of the present location of the network device e.g. as maintained by the network device and or the carrier network a type of network device e.g. GooglePixel a type of operating system of the network device e.g. Android interaction timestamp data e.g. the current date and time and user profile data e.g. user ID . The network device launches browser software with the URL received from the tag and establishes a connection with the server computing device using the URL. The network device transmits the plurality of data elements collected from the tag and collected from the network device to the server computing device as a request for content to be delivered to the network device .

The content payload generation module of the server computing device receives the request for content and associated data elements from the network device . Using the data elements in the request for content the content payload generation module obtains additional details associated with the interaction between the network device and the tag from the database in order to build a query for generation of the content payload.

For example the database includes data structures that store detailed information about the shoe associated with the tag scanned by the network device e.g. size color brand and the like . In some embodiments the content payload generation module retrieves additional details about various aspects of the interaction between the network device and the tag from one or more other data sources . For example the content payload generation module can use the GPS coordinates received as part of the request for content in order to determine e.g. a city where the network device is located by transmitting the GPS coordinates e.g. via API to a third party mapping service such as Google Maps which returns specific location information e.g. street address associated with the coordinates. In this example the content payload generation module determines that the network device is located in New York according to its current GPS coordinates. In another example the content payload generation module then uses the city information to retrieve current weather conditions e.g. rainy and 65 from a third party weather service.

Once the content payload generation module has received or otherwise obtained a plurality of data elements associated with the interaction between the network device and the tag the content payload generation module builds a query that is executed against a content repository e.g. database in order to identify and aggregate certain items of content along with aspects of content style and or layout into the content payload to be displayed on the network device .

An exemplary query generated by the content payload generation module for the example use case described with respect to in is referenced below 

As shown above the query is comprised of expressions e.g. shoe.size is 12 joined by logical operators e.g. AND . Each expression is comprised of a key that defines a particular attribute of the interaction e.g. shoe.size a value that defines the value assigned to the key e.g. 12 and a comparison operator e.g. is . It should be appreciated that the comparison operator is generally a Boolean operator that takes two parameters for comparison e.g. equals not equals like not like in not in is is not etc. . In addition a logical operator is generally an operator that combines multiple expressions into a query e.g. AND OR NOT etc. . Other types of comparison operators and logical operators can be used with the methods and systems described herein.

It should also be appreciated that the query building described herein is dynamic and can involve any number of different expressions joined by any number of logical operators. The system does not require the same set of expressions joined in the same way for each query instead the system can adapt the query based upon e.g. the data elements that are available and or specific data elements configured by operators of the system.

The content payload generation module executes the query against the content repository e.g. database to generate the content payload. The content repository returns source code that satisfies the query and the content payload generation module aggregates the received source code into the content payload for storage in database .

In some embodiments the content payload generation module uses the object ID by itself or in conjunction with other data elements associated with the interaction as received from the network device to determine a specific set of keys also called an experience to be used in the retrieval of content. For example the database can be configured to map a certain object ID or a certain entity ID associated with a set of object IDs to an experience that comprises a predefined set of keys for expressions to be included in the query. As shown in the content payload generation module can include data elements associated with several aspects of the interaction e.g. object tag data elements network device data elements location data elements third party data elements in a query to determine whether the content repository includes one or more specific experiences e.g. experience and corresponding key value pairs for those data elements.

The content repository can further evaluate the query to determine attachments to be included in the content payload based upon e.g. the data elements associated with the interaction. For example the content repository evaluates the logic of the query to identify specific attachments e.g. content items styles and or layouts that satisfy the logic. For example the content repository can determine that for each interaction that satisfies all of the elements of the query identified above the image file located at http bluebite.com images brand logo dark.svg is included in the content payload. In one embodiment the content repository returns the link to the image file to the content payload generation module and the module attaches the link to the content payload for that interaction. In another example the content repository can determine that for all interactions that involve an iOS device a specific style and or layout is to be applied to the content. The content repository returns e.g. a link to a stylesheet file to the content payload generation module and the module attaches the link to the content payload. In some embodiments the attachments to the content payload are comprised of source code including the key value pairs in a JSON wrapper for interpretation by the downstream web server .

In some embodiments the content payload generation module can be configured to manipulate certain aspects the content payload before it is transmitted to the network device . One example of this process called whitelisting acts to adjust visual aspects of the data elements that are present in the content payload with respect to e.g. whether the data element is displayed on the network device and or how the data element is displayed. In the example described above a brand manager may want to prevent certain attributes of the shoe e.g. a type of plastic used in the shoe from being displayed on the network device or otherwise presented to the user. The content payload generation module can be configured to rename map and or filter data elements e.g. by changing the value of the data elements by flagging certain data elements as do not display and so forth by referencing a whitelist stored in database during generation of the content payload.

In this manner the content payload generation module generates a dynamic content payload with any number of different attachments that collectively contribute to the content displayed on the network device based upon the specific details of the interaction between the tag and the network device described previously. The content payload is further associated with a unique app ID and a unique object ID so that the content payload can be later identified. As can be appreciated the techniques described herein provide the advantage of an interaction specific content generation and delivery to the network device such that the content is uniquely tailored to each interaction without requiring the tag and or the backend content delivery system to be preconfigured with a limited number of static values thereby resulting in only a few predefined content experiences or to be preconfigured for all possible interactions and associated attributes which is likely impossible .

The content payload generation module of the server computing device receives the request message. First the content payload generation module determines whether the app key is valid to ensure that only requests from authorized apps are processed by the module . If the module determines that the app key is invalid the module returns a Forbidden response to the network device . If the app key is valid the module continues with the payload generation as shown in .

The module then accesses the database using the data elements from the request message as received from the network device to retrieve additional data elements e.g. metadata for generating the content payload. As shown in the module looks up i object metadata using the object URN ii app metadata using the app key iii action metadata based upon the type of action iv device metadata using the device data v location metadata using e.g. geolocation coordinates from the network device and vi third party metadata such as environment data using e.g. the network device location and the third party data sources . Exemplary metadata is shown in and it should be appreciated that other types and or sources of metadata can be contemplated to be within the scope of invention. Once the module has retrieved the applicable metadata the module merges the metadata into e.g. a single set of metadata to be used in generating the content payload as shown in .

The module then queries the database using the merged metadata to retrieve associated items such as attachments to be included in the content payload as well as populating the experience key value pairs with metadata from the interaction between the network device and the tag . In some embodiments during each interaction every assignment query e.g. for all attachments experiences and web hooks is evaluated against the input metadata parameters to determine which are relevant for the response. The dynamic nature of the assignment query language described herein provides the distinct advantage of enabling content to be assigned to a plurality of object attributes instead of a static object ID which is the technique employed in systems using traditional barcode NFC RFID and Beacon technology . As a result new objects can be introduced to the system and the content payload generation module automatically determines how to serve the most appropriate response to provide content to the network device .

Referring now to the module evaluates the available assignment queries against the merged metadata in order to retrieve applicable experience data. As shown in the exemplary assignment queries comprise a series of expressions e.g. object.name IS Blue Bite that are joined together with logical operators e.g. AND . It should be appreciated that the ordering of the expressions in the queries is not arbitrary. Instead the queries are self optimized by the module so that expressions with local keys e.g. object.name device.manuf object.venue that is keys can be evaluated against database which is typically faster for the module to access and receive a response are arranged before expressions with keys that require access to external resources e.g. weather.cond because external resources are typically slower for the module to access and receive a response. In this way when the query is executed the module evaluates the local keys before the external keys resulting in a more efficient response time. This self optimization process also provides the advantage of giving users of the system the direct ability to control what external resource requests that the system makes during each interaction.

Furthermore the content body examples provided in are shown as not having values filled in for the corresponding keys. It should be appreciated that the module fills in these values after an assignment query is successfully executed by the module and the retrieved content is set to be added to the interaction response.

Turning back to upon executing the queries the module adds values to the applicable experience keys using the query results. As shown in each experience includes a series of keys with corresponding values that the module maps based upon the data elements it received as part of the request message and or retrieved from the database . In one example the value for the object.handed key is blank meaning that in some cases the interaction metadata does not include a value for that key. In this instance the module can set the key s value to a fallback value i.e. a value that is preconfigured in the experience. shows a number of different fallback values for the various keys. Once the module has retrieved any associated attachments and mapped the metadata to the experiences the module then generates the JSON payload data using the key value pairs for each of the aspects of the content payload and the server computing device can perform a variety of different actions using the JSON payload data examples of which are shown in . One example is to store the payload data in database in the payload data is packaged as a content payload for storage in database and later transmission to e.g. the web server as described herein. Another example is to transmit the payload data back to the network device from that originally requested the content payload in the payload data is sent to the SDK embedded in the app on the network device that requested the content such as an external server personal mobile device or web hook for subsequent display on a network device as described in greater detail below.

Once the content payload generation module and the content repository have completed the generation of the content payload as described above the content payload generation module retrieves a destination URL associated with the interaction from e.g. database . For example the destination URL can be associated with a web server e.g. web server computing device of an entity associated with the product being viewed by the user. The content payload generation module also assigns a unique identifier to the content payload that is used for subsequent retrieval of the content payload as described below.

In some embodiments the unique identifier assigned to the content payload is a rolling encryption key e.g. a JavaScript rolling key that expires after a set period of time. In this way the content payload for a particular transaction can be time limited in that the payload cannot be accessed more than a predetermined period of time from the initial interaction between the tag and the network device. In other embodiments the rolling encryption key can be configured to expire after the corresponding content payload is accessed a certain number of times or in still other embodiments the rolling encryption key can be specific to a network device and or user agent such that only the authorized network device can access the content payload.

Returning to the content payload generation module transmits the destination URL and the rolling encryption key e.g. http url.tld rk xyz123 to the network device . Using the destination URL the network device is redirected to the web server and establishes a communication session with the web server. In some embodiments the web server is configured with functionality e.g. an SDK that enables the web server to request and retrieve the content payload from the server computing device . When the network device is redirected to the web server the web server loads a web page for display on the network device .

In some embodiments the web page includes source code that references or otherwise integrates the SDK to automatically retrieve the content payload from the server computing device e.g. via API call . For example as part of the page load the SDK on the web server reads the rolling encryption key received from the network device as part of the destination URL and initiates an API call that passes the app ID and the rolling encryption key to the content payload delivery module of the server computing device .

The content payload delivery module validates the app ID and the rolling encryption key and responds to the API call from the web server by retrieving the appropriate content payload assigned to the app ID and rolling encryption key from the database and transmitting the content payload to the web server . It should be appreciated that in some cases the API call is performed by the web server on behalf of the network device and in other cases the network device e.g. either via app or browser executes the API call via the web server to retrieve the content payload and populate the display. Furthermore in some embodiments secondary requests made by the web server are AJAX calls. The web server then transmits the content payload to the network device where the content payload is used to populate specific areas of the web page and create a customized dynamic content display for the user.

As shown in the graphical display includes content areas utilizing data from the content payload which corresponds to e.g. details about the product associated with the tag that the network device has interacted with e.g. a running jacket and past purchases by other users that have purchased the product. Content area includes attributes of the product such as color item name price size images description materials and the like that directly correspond to the physical item associated with the tag that the network device has interacted with. Content area includes product images and product names for similar products that other users may have purchased or interacted with based upon the primary product running jacket that the network device is displaying.

As shown in the graphical display includes content areas utilizing data from the content payload which corresponds to e.g. location and environment based information associated with the location of the network device in conjunction with the specific product. For example because the product is a running jacket the content payload can include information about running conditions in the area of the network device including weather forecast data precipitation data and the like for display on the network device. Other types of information in the content payload for display can include but are not limited to map data including location of nearby users who are also accessing the app run history data e.g. fastest run total miles badges and leaderboard data and social media data e.g. Instagram photos .

Further shows how the graphical displays are dynamically customized based upon the specific context in which the network device interacts with the tag . As shown in the left hand network device shows a graphical display based upon a content payload that corresponds to a user that has already purchased the running jacket including information such as running conditions weather data map data and the like. The right hand network device shows a graphical display based upon a content payload that corresponds to a user that has not purchased the jacket. As such the display shows product information such as size and color options description materials and so forth.

Method steps can be performed by one or more special purpose processors executing a computer program to perform functions of the invention by operating on input data and or generating output data. Method steps can also be performed by and an apparatus can be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a FPGA field programmable gate array a FPAA field programmable analog array a CPLD complex programmable logic device a PSoC Programmable System on Chip ASIP application specific instruction set processor or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit or the like. Subroutines can refer to portions of the stored computer program and or the processor and or the special circuitry that implement one or more functions.

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example special purpose microprocessors. Generally a processor receives instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a specialized processor for executing instructions and one or more specifically allocated memory devices for storing instructions and or data. Memory devices such as a cache can be used to temporarily store data. Memory devices can also be used for long term data storage. Generally a computer also includes or is operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. A computer can also be operatively coupled to a communications network in order to receive instructions and or data from the network and or to transfer instructions and or data to the network. Computer readable storage mediums suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of volatile and non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. DRAM SRAM EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks e.g. CD DVD HD DVD and Blu ray disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by and or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the above described techniques can be implemented on a computing device in communication with a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube plasma or LCD liquid crystal display monitor a mobile device display or screen a holographic device and or projector for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse a trackball a touchpad or a motion sensor by which the user can provide input to the computer e.g. interact with a user interface element . Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech and or tactile input.

The above described techniques can be implemented in a distributed computing system that includes a back end component. The back end component can for example be a data server a middleware component and or an application server. The above described techniques can be implemented in a distributed computing system that includes a front end component. The front end component can for example be a client computer having a graphical user interface a Web browser through which a user can interact with an example implementation and or other graphical user interfaces for a transmitting device. The above described techniques can be implemented in a distributed computing system that includes any combination of such back end middleware or front end components.

The components of the computing system can be interconnected by transmission medium which can include any form or medium of digital or analog data communication e.g. a communication network . Transmission medium can include one or more packet based networks and or one or more circuit based networks in any configuration. Packet based networks can include for example the Internet a carrier internet protocol IP network e.g. local area network LAN wide area network WAN campus area network CAN metropolitan area network MAN home area network HAN a private IP network an IP private branch exchange IPBX a wireless network e.g. radio access network RAN Bluetooth near field communications NFC network Wi Fi WiMAX general packet radio service GPRS network HiperLAN and or other packet based networks. Circuit based networks can include for example the public switched telephone network PSTN a legacy private branch exchange PBX a wireless network e.g. RAN code division multiple access CDMA network time division multiple access TDMA network global system for mobile communications GSM network and or other circuit based networks.

Information transfer over transmission medium can be based on one or more communication protocols. Communication protocols can include for example Ethernet protocol Internet Protocol IP Voice over IP VOIP a Peer to Peer P2P protocol Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Session Initiation Protocol SIP H.323 Media Gateway Control Protocol MGCP Signaling System 7 SS7 a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM protocol a Push to Talk PTT protocol a PTT over Cellular POC protocol Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE and or other communication protocols.

Devices of the computing system can include for example a computer a computer with a browser device a telephone an IP phone a mobile device e.g. cellular phone personal digital assistant PDA device smart phone tablet laptop computer electronic mail device and or other communication devices. The browser device includes for example a computer e.g. desktop computer and or laptop computer with a World Wide Web browser e.g. Chrome from Google Inc. Microsoft Internet Explorer available from Microsoft Corporation and or Mozilla Firefox available from Mozilla Corporation . Mobile computing device include for example a Blackberry from Research in Motion an iPhone from Apple Corporation and or an Android based device such as the Pixel from Google Inc. IP phones include for example a Cisco Unified IP Phone 7985G and or a Cisco Unified Wireless Phone 7920 available from Cisco Systems Inc.

Comprise include and or plural forms of each are open ended and include the listed parts and can include additional parts that are not listed. And or is open ended and includes one or more of the listed parts and combinations of the listed parts.

One skilled in the art will realize the invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. The foregoing embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects illustrative rather than limiting of the invention described herein.

