---

title: N-[2-(3-amino-2,5-dimethyl-1,1-dioxido-5,6-dihydro-2H-1,2,4-thiadiazin-5-yl)-1,3-thiazol-4-yl] amides
abstract: 


url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09611264&OS=09611264&RS=09611264
owner: Pfizer Inc.
number: 09611264
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160922
---
This application is a Non Provisional application which claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 222 986 filed on Sep. 24 2015 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to small molecule compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof that are inhibitors of site amyloid precursor protein APP Cleaving Enzyme 1 BACE1 and inhibitors of BACE2. This invention relates to inhibiting the production of A beta peptides that can contribute to the formation of neurological deposits of amyloid protein. The present invention also relates to the treatment of Alzheimer s disease AD and other neurodegenerative and or neurological disorders as well as the treatment of diabetes in mammals including humans. More particularly this invention relates to cyclic sulfonyl guanidine compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof useful for the treatment of neurodegenerative and or neurological disorders such as AD and Down s syndrome related to A beta peptide production.

Dementia results from a wide variety of distinctive pathological processes. The most common pathological processes causing dementia are Alzheimer s disease AD cerebral amyloid angiopathy CM and prion mediated diseases see e.g. Haan et al. Clin. Neurol. Neurosurg. 1990 92 4 305 310 Glenner et al. J. Neurol. Sci. 1989 94 1 28 . AD is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by memory impairment and cognitive dysfunction. AD affects nearly half of all people past the age of 85 the most rapidly growing portion of the United States population. As such the number of AD patients in the United States is expected to increase from about 4 million to about 14 million by 2050.

The accumulation of amyloid A peptides is believed to be one of the underlying causes of Alzheimer s disease AD which is the most common cause of cognitive decline in the elderly Hardy Allsop Trends Pharmacol Sci. 1991 12 10 383 8 Selkoe Behav. Brain Res. 2008 192 1 106 13 . A the major protein constituent of amyloid plaques is derived from sequential cleavage of the type I integral membrane protein amyloid precursor protein APP by two proteases and secretase. Proteolytic cleavage of APP by the site APP cleaving enzymes BACE1 and BACE2 generates a soluble N terminal ectodomain of APP sAPP and the C terminal fragment C99. Subsequent cleavage of the membrane bound C99 fragment by the secretase liberates the various A peptide species of which A 40 and A 42 are the most predominant forms Vassar et al. J. Neurosci. 2009 29 41 12787 94 Marks Berg Neurochem. Res. 2010 35 181 210 . Therefore limiting the generation of A directly through inhibition of BACE1 is one of the most attractive approaches for the treatment of AD as BACE1 inhibitors could effectively inhibit the formation of all predominant A peptides.

In addition it has been determined that BACE1 knock out mice had markedly enhanced clearance of axonal and myelin debris from degenerated fibers accelerated axonal regeneration and earlier reinnervation of neuromuscular junctions compared with littermate controls. These data suggest BACE1 inhibition as a therapeutic approach to accelerate regeneration and recovery after peripheral nerve damage. See Farah et al. J. Neurosci. 2011 31 15 5744 5754 .

Insulin resistance and impaired glucose homoeostasis are important indicators of Type 2 diabetes and are early risk factors of AD. In particular there is a higher risk of sporadic AD in patients with Type 2 diabetes and AD patients are more prone to Type 2 diabetes Butler Diabetes 53 474 481 2004. . Recently it has also been proposed that AD should be reconsidered as Type 3 diabetes de la Monte J. Diabetes Sci. Technol. 2008 2 6 1101 1113 . Of special interest is the fact that AD and Type 2 diabetes share common pathogenic mechanisms and possibly treatments Park S. A. J. Clin. Neurol. 2011 7 10 18 Raffa Br. J. Clin. Pharmacol 2011 71 3 365 376 . Elevated plasma levels of A the product of BACE activities were recently associated with hyperglycemia and obesity in humans see Meakin et al. Biochem J. 2012 441 1 285 96 Martins Journal of Alzheimer s Disease 8 2005 269 282 . Moreover increased A production prompts the onset of glucose intolerance and insulin resistance in mice C zar Castellano Am. J. Physiol. Endocrinol. Metab. 302 E1373 E1380 2012 Delibegovic Diabetologia 2011 54 2143 2151 . Finally it is also suggested that circulating A could participate in the development of atherosclerosis in both humans and mice De Meyer Atherosclerosis 216 2011 54 58 Catapano Atherosclerosis 210 2010 78 87 Roher Biochimica et Biophysica Acta 1812 2011 1508 1514 .

Therefore it is believed that BACE1 levels may play a critical role in glucose and lipid homoeostasis in conditions of chronic nutrient excess. Specifically BACE1 inhibitors may be potentially useful for increasing insulin sensitivity in skeletal muscle and liver as illustrated by the fact that reduction in BACE1 decreases body weight protects against diet induced obesity and enhances insulin sensitivity in mice see Meakin et al. Biochem. J. 2012 441 1 285 96 . Of equal interest is the identification of LRP1 as a BACE1 substrate and the potential link to atherosclerosis Strickland Physiol. Rev. 88 887 918 2008 Hyman J. Biol. Chem. Vol. 280 No. 18 17777 17785 2005 .

Likewise inhibition of BACE2 is proposed as a treatment of Type 2 diabetes with the potential to preserve and restore cell mass and stimulate insulin secretion in pre diabetic and diabetic patients WO2011 020806 . BACE2 is a cell enriched protease that regulates pancreatic cell function and mass and is a close homologue of BACE1. Pharmacological inhibition of BACE2 increases cell mass and function leading to the stabilization of Tmem27. See Esterhazy et al. Cell Metabolism 2011 14 3 365 377 . It is suggested that BACE2 inhibitors are useful in the treatment and or prevention of diseases associated with the inhibition of BACE2 e.g. Type 2 diabetes with the potential to preserve and restore cell mass and stimulate insulin secretion in pre diabetic and diabetic patients WO2011 020806 .

Aminodihydrothiazine or thioamidine compounds are described in US2009 0082560 WO 2009 091016 and WO 2010 038686 as useful inhibitors of the secretase enzyme. Fused heterocyclic compounds useful as inhibitors of the secretase enzyme are also described in WO 2011071109 and corresponding US 2012245155. Co pending PCT application PCT IB2012 054198 filed by Pfizer Inc on Aug. 17 2012 also describes aminodihydrothiazine compounds that are useful inhibitors of the secretase enzyme. The present invention is directed to novel cyclic sulfonyl guanidine compounds and their use in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases including AD as well as the treatment of metabolic diseases and conditions such as diabetes and obesity.

Ris a 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl having one to four heteroatoms independently selected from N O or S wherein at least one of the heteroatoms is N and wherein said N is optionally substituted with R and wherein said 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl is optionally substituted on carbon with one to three R 

Rand Rare each independently hydrogen Calkyl Ccycloalkyl or 3 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl wherein the Calkyl is optionally substituted with a Calkoxy or with one to three fluoro and the Ccycloalkyl and 3 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl are each optionally and independently substituted with one to three fluoro Calkyl or Calkoxy 

or Rand R taken together with the carbon to which they are attached form a Ccycloalkyl ring or 3 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl ring each of which is optionally and independently substituted with one to three fluoro Calkyl or Calkoxy 

Rat each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halo hydroxy cyano Calkyl Calkoxy Calkenyl Calkenyloxy Calkynyl Calkynyloxy Calkoxy Calkyl Ccycloalkoxy Ccycloalkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkoxy 4 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl and 4 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl wherein said Calkyl Calkoxy Calkenyl Calkenyloxy Calkynyl Calkynyloxy Calkoxy Calkyl Ccycloalkoxy Ccycloalkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkoxy 4 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl and 4 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl are each optionally substituted with one to three substituents independently selected from fluoro chloro hydroxy cyano methyl fluoromethyl difluoromethyl trifluoromethyl methoxy fluoromethoxy difluoromethoxy and trifluoromethoxy and

Ris hydrogen or Calkyl optionally substituted with one to three fluoro or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

Another embodiment of the present invention is a pharmaceutical composition comprising compounds of Formula I or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer and a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle diluent or carrier. The pharmaceutical compositions described herein can be used for inhibiting production of amyloid protein and for inhibiting beta site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 BACE1 for treating a neurodegenerative disease and in particular Alzheimer s disease for inhibiting BACE1 and or BACE2 activity for the therapeutic and or prophylactic treatment of diseases and disorders characterized by elevated amyloid levels including diabetes or Type 2 diabetes for increasing insulin sensitivity in skeletal muscle and liver in a mammal including humans and for treating and or preventing obesity.

The present invention is also directed to methods of treatment employing the compounds of Formula I such as 

 1 Methods of inhibiting BACE enzyme activity by administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of any of the embodiments of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier to a mammal or a patient in need thereof.

 2 Methods for treating conditions or diseases of the central nervous system and neurological disorders in which the secretase enzyme is involved such as migraine epilepsy Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s disease brain injury stroke cerebrovascular diseases including cerebral arteriosclerosis cerebral amyloid angiopathy hereditary cerebral hemorrhage and brain hypoxia ischemia cognitive disorders including amnesia senile dementia HIV associated dementia Alzheimer s disease Huntington s disease Lewy body dementia vascular dementia drug related dementia tardive dyskinesia myoclonus dystonia delirium Pick s disease Creutzfeldt Jacob disease HIV disease Gilles de la Tourette s syndrome epilepsy muscular spasms and disorders associated with muscular spasticity or weakness including tremors and mild cognitive impairment MCI mental deficiency including spasticity Down syndrome and fragile X syndrome sleep disorders including hypersomnia circadian rhythm sleep disorder insomnia parasomnia and sleep deprivation and psychiatric disorders such as anxiety including acute stress disorder generalized anxiety disorder social anxiety disorder panic disorder post traumatic stress disorder agoraphobia and obsessive compulsive disorder factitious disorder including acute hallucinatory mania impulse control disorders including compulsive gambling and intermittent explosive disorder mood disorders including bipolar I disorder bipolar II disorder mania mixed affective state major depression chronic depression seasonal depression psychotic depression seasonal depression premenstrual syndrome PMS premenstrual dysphoric disorder PDD and postpartum depression psychomotor disorder psychotic disorders including schizophrenia schizoaffective disorder schizophreniform and delusional disorder drug dependence including narcotic dependence alcoholism amphetamine dependence cocaine addiction nicotine dependence and drug withdrawal syndrome eating disorders including anorexia bulimia binge eating disorder hyperphagia obesity compulsive eating disorders and pagophagia sexual dysfunction disorders urinary incontinence neuronal damage disorders including ocular damage retinopathy or macular degeneration of the eye tinnitus hearing impairment and loss and brain edema nerve injury treatment including accelerating regeneration and recovery after peripheral nerve damage and pediatric psychiatric disorders including attention deficit disorder attention deficit hyperactive disorder conduct disorder and autism in a mammal preferably a human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The compounds of Formula I may also be useful for improving memory both short term and long term and learning ability. The text revision of the fourth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders DSM IV TR 2000 American Psychiatric Association Washington D.C. provides a diagnostic tool for identifying many of the disorders described herein. The skilled artisan will recognize that there are alternative nomenclatures nosologies and classification systems for disorders described herein including those as described in the DMS IV TR and that terminology and classification systems evolve with medical scientific progress 

 3 Methods for treating a neurological disorder such as migraine epilepsy Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s disease Niemann Pick type C brain injury stroke cerebrovascular disease cognitive disorder sleep disorder or a psychiatric disorder such as anxiety factitious disorder impulse control disorder mood disorder psychomotor disorder psychotic disorder drug dependence eating disorder and pediatric psychiatric disorder in a mammal preferably a human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof 

 4 Methods for the treatment e.g. delaying the progression or onset of diabetes or diabetes related disorders including Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes impaired glucose tolerance insulin resistance hyperglycemia and diabetic complications such as atherosclerosis coronary heart disease stroke peripheral vascular disease nephropathy hypertension neuropathy and retinopathy 

 5 Methods for the treatment of obesity co morbidities such as metabolic syndrome. Metabolic syndrome includes diseases conditions or disorders such as dyslipidemia hypertension insulin resistance diabetes e.g. Type 2 diabetes coronary artery disease and heart failure. For more detailed information on metabolic syndrome see e.g. Zimmet P. Z. et al. The Metabolic Syndrome Perhaps an Etiologic Mystery but Far From a Myth Where Does the International Diabetes Federation Stand Medscape Diabetes Endocrinology 7 2 2005 and Alberti K. G. et al. The Metabolic Syndrome A New Worldwide Definition Lancet 366 1059 62 2005 and

 6 Methods for the treatment of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease NAFLD and hepatic insulin resistance 

The present invention is also directed to combination therapies wherein the compounds of this invention may also be used in conjunction with other pharmaceutical agents for the treatment of the diseases conditions and or disorders described herein. Therefore methods of treatment that include administering compounds of the present invention in combination with other pharmaceutical agents are also provided 

All patents patent applications and references referred to herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Other features and advantages of this invention will be apparent from this specification and the appendant claims which describe the invention. It is to be understood that both the foregoing and the following detailed description are exemplary only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

The present invention may be understood more readily by reference to the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention and the examples included therein. It is to be understood that this invention is not limited to specific methods of synthesis which may of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

In this specification and in the claims that follow reference will be made to a number of terms that shall be defined to have the following meanings 

As used herein eating disorders refer to illnesses in which the patient suffers disturbances in his her eating behaviors and related thoughts and emotions. Representative examples of obesity related eating disorders include overeating bulimia binge eating disorder compulsive dieting nocturnal sleep related eating disorder pica Prader Willi syndrome and night eating syndrome.

 Patient refers to warm blooded animals such as for example guinea pigs mice rats gerbils cats rabbits dogs cattle goats sheep horses monkeys chimpanzees and humans.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable means the substance or composition must be compatible chemically and or toxicologically with the other ingredients comprising a formulation and or the mammal being treated therewith.

The term therapeutically effective amount means an amount of a compound of the present invention that i treats or prevents the particular disease condition or disorder ii attenuates ameliorates or eliminates one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder or iii prevents or delays the onset of one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder described herein.

The term treating as used herein unless otherwise indicated means reversing alleviating inhibiting the progress of delaying the progression of delaying the onset of or preventing the disorder or condition to which such term applies or one or more symptoms of such disorder or condition. The term treatment as used herein unless otherwise indicated refers to the act of treating as treating is defined immediately above. The term treating also includes adjuvant and neo adjuvant treatment of a subject. For the avoidance of doubt reference herein to treatment includes reference to curative palliative and prophylactic treatment and to the administration of a medicament for use in such treatment.

The term alkyl refers to a linear or branched chain saturated hydrocarbyl substituent i.e. a substituent obtained from a hydrocarbon by removal of a hydrogen in one embodiment containing from one to six carbon atoms. Non limiting examples of such substituents include methyl ethyl propyl including n propyl and isopropyl butyl including n butyl isobutyl sec butyl and tert butyl pentyl isoamyl hexyl and the like.

The term alkoxy refers to a linear or branched chain saturated hydrocarbyl substituent attached to an oxygen radical i.e. a substituent obtained from a hydrocarbon alcohol by removal of the hydrogen from the OH in one embodiment containing from one to six carbon atoms. Non limiting examples of such substituents include methoxy ethoxy propoxy including n propoxy and isopropoxy butoxy including n butoxy isobutoxy sec butoxy and tert butoxy pentoxy hexoxy and the like.

The term alkenyl refers to a linear or branched chain hydrocarbyl substituent i.e. a substituent obtained from a hydrocarbon by removal of a hydrogen which contains at least one carbon carbon double bond in one embodiment containing from three to six carbon atoms. Non limiting examples of such substituents include allyl propenyl butenyl isobutenyl butadienyl pentenyl pentadienyl hexenyl hexadienyl and the like. The term alkenyloxy refers to an alkenyl group attached to an oxygen radical.

The term alkynyl refers to a linear or branched chain hydrocarbyl substituent i.e. a substituent obtained from a hydrocarbon by removal of a hydrogen which contains at least one carbon carbon triple bond in one embodiment containing from three to six carbon atoms. Non limiting examples of such substituents include propynyl butynyl isobutynyl pentynyl hexynyl and the like. The term alkynyloxy refers to an alkynyl group attached to an oxygen radical.

The term alkylene refers to an alkanediyl group i.e. a substituent obtained from a hydrocarbon by removal of two hydrogens in one embodiment containing from three to five carbons. Non limiting examples of such groups include propylene butylene and pentylene.

In some instances the number of carbon atoms in a hydrocarbyl substituent i.e. alkyl cycloalkyl etc. is indicated by the prefix C C or C wherein x is the minimum and y is the maximum number of carbon atoms in the substituent. Thus for example C C alkyl or Calkyl refers to an alkyl substituent containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms. Illustrating further C Ccycloalkyl or C cycloalkyl refers to saturated cycloalkyl group containing from 3 to 6 carbon ring atoms.

The term cycloalkyl refers to a carbocyclic substituent obtained by removing a hydrogen from a saturated carbocyclic molecule for example one having three to six carbon atoms or having three to nine carbon atoms. The term cycloalkyl includes mono bi and tricyclic saturated carbocycles as well as bridged and fused ring carbocycles and also spiro fused carbocyclic ring systems. The term Ccycloalkyl means a radical of a three to nine membered ring system which includes the groups cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl cyclononyl bicyclopentyl bicyclohexyl bicycloheptyl bicyclooctyl bicyclononyl spiropentyl spirohexyl spiroheptyl spirooctyl and spirononyl. The term Ccycloalkyl means a radical of a three to six membered ring system which includes the groups cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl bicyclopentyl bicyclohexyl spiropentyl and spirohexyl. The term Ccycloalkoxy refers to a three to six membered cycloalkyl group attached to an oxygen radical. Examples include cyclopropoxy cyclobutoxy cyclopentoxy and cyclohexoxy.

In some instances the number of atoms in a cyclic substituent containing one or more heteroatoms i.e. heteroaryl or heterocycloalkyl is indicated by the prefix x to y membered wherein x is the minimum and y is the maximum number of atoms forming the cyclic moiety of the substituent. Thus for example 4 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl refers to a heterocycloalkyl containing from 4 to 6 atoms including one to three heteroatoms in the cyclic moiety of the heterocycloalkyl. Likewise the phrase 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl refers to a heteroaryl containing from 5 to 6 atoms and 5 to 10 membered heteroaryl refers to a heteroaryl containing from 5 to 10 atoms each including one or more heteroatoms in the cyclic moiety of the heteroaryl. Furthermore the phases 5 membered heteroaryl and 6 membered heteroaryl refer to a five membered heteroaromatic ring system and a six membered heteroaromatic ring system respectively. The heteroatoms present in these ring systems are selected from N O and S.

The term hydroxy or hydroxyl refers to OH. When used in combination with another term s the prefix hydroxy indicates that the substituent to which the prefix is attached is substituted with one or more hydroxy substituents. Compounds bearing a carbon to which one or more hydroxy substituents include for example alcohols enols and phenol.

The term halo or halogen refers to fluorine which may be depicted as F chlorine which may be depicted as Cl bromine which may be depicted as Br or iodine which may be depicted as I .

The term heterocycloalkyl refers to a substituent obtained by removing a hydrogen from a saturated or partially saturated ring structure containing a total of the specified number of atoms such as 4 to 6 ring atoms wherein at least one of the ring atoms is a heteroatom i.e. oxygen nitrogen or sulfur with the remaining ring atoms being independently selected from the group consisting of carbon oxygen nitrogen and sulfur. In a group that has a heterocycloalkyl substituent the ring atom of the heterocycloalkyl substituent that is bound to the group may be a nitrogen heteroatom or it may be a ring carbon atom. Similarly if the heterocycloalkyl substituent is in turn substituted with a group or substituent the group or substituent may be bound to a nitrogen heteroatom or it may be bound to a ring carbon atom.

The term heteroaryl refers to an aromatic ring structure containing the specified number of ring atoms in which at least one of the ring atoms is a heteroatom i.e. oxygen nitrogen or sulfur with the remaining ring atoms being independently selected from the group consisting of carbon oxygen nitrogen and sulfur. Examples of heteroaryl substituents include 6 membered heteroaryl substituents such as pyridyl pyrazyl pyrimidinyl and pyridazinyl and 5 membered heteroaryl substituents such as triazolyl imidazolyl furanyl thiophenyl pyrazolyl pyrrolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl 1 2 3 1 2 4 1 2 5 or 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl and isothiazolyl. The heteroaryl group can also be a bicyclic heteroaromatic group such as indolyl benzofuranyl benzothienyl benzimidazolyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl benzoisoxazolyl oxazolopyridinyl imidazopyridinyl imidazopyrimidinyl and the like. In a group that has a heteroaryl substituent the ring atom of the heteroaryl substituent that is bound to the group may be a ring nitrogen atom or it may be a ring carbon atom. Similarly if the heteroaryl substituent is in turn substituted with a group or substituent the group or substituent may be bound to a ring nitrogen atom or it may be bound to a ring carbon atom. The term heteroaryl also includes pyridyl N oxides and groups containing a pyridine N oxide ring. In addition the heteroaryl group may contain an oxo group such as the one present in a pyridone group. Further examples include furyl thienyl oxazolyl thiazolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl isoxazolyl isothiazolyl oxadiazolyl thiadiazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl pyridin 2 1H onyl pyridazin 2 1H onyl pyrimidin 2 1H onyl pyrazin 2 1H onyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl and pyrazolo 1 5 a pyridinyl. The heteroaryl can be further substituted as defined herein.

Examples of single ring heteroaryls and heterocycloalkyls include furanyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrofuranyl thiophenyl dihydrothiophenyl tetrahydrothiophenyl pyrrolyl isopyrrolyl pyrrolinyl pyrrolidinyl imidazolyl isoimidazolyl imidazolinyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolyl pyrazolinyl pyrazolidinyl triazolyl tetrazolyl dithiolyl oxathiolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiazolinyl isothiazolinyl thiazolidinyl isothiazolidinyl thiaoxadiazolyl oxathiazolyl oxadiazolyl including oxadiazolyl 1 2 4 oxadiazolyl 1 2 5 oxadiazolyl or 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl pyranyl including 1 2 pyranyl or 1 4 pyranyl dihydropyranyl pyridinyl piperidinyl diazinyl including pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl piperazinyl triazinyl including s triazinyl as triazinyl and v triazinyl oxazinyl including 2H 1 2 oxazinyl 6H 1 3 oxazinyl or 2H 1 4 oxazinyl isoxazinyl including o isoxazinyl or p isoxazinyl oxazolidinyl isoxazolidinyl oxathiazinyl including 1 2 5 oxathiazinyl or 1 2 6 oxathiazinyl oxadiazinyl including 2H 1 2 4 oxadiazinyl or 2H 1 2 5 oxadiazinyl morpholinyl.

The term heteroaryl can also include when specified as such ring systems having two rings wherein such rings may be fused and wherein one ring is aromatic and the other ring is not fully part of the conjugated aromatic system i.e. the heteroaromatic ring can be fused to a cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl ring . Non limiting examples of such ring systems include 5 6 7 8 tetrahydroisoquinolinyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydroquinolinyl 6 7 dihydro 5H cyclopenta b pyridinyl 6 7 dihydro 5H cyclopenta c pyridinyl 1 4 5 6 tetrahydrocyclopenta c pyrazolyl 2 4 5 6 tetrahydrocyclopenta c pyrazolyl 5 6 dihydro 4H pyrrolo 1 2 b pyrazolyl 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 1 2 b 1 2 4 triazolyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridinyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyridinyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 1H indazolyl and 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 2H indazolyl. It is to be understood that if a carbocyclic or heterocyclic moiety may be bonded or otherwise attached to a designated substrate through differing ring atoms without denoting a specific point of attachment then all possible points are intended whether through a carbon atom or for example a trivalent nitrogen atom. For example the term pyridyl means 2 3 or 4 pyridyl the term thienyl means 2 or 3 thienyl and so forth.

If substituents are described as independently having more than one variable each instance of a substituent is selected independent of the other s from the list of variables available. Each substituent therefore may be identical to or different from the other substituent s .

If substituents are described as being independently selected from a group each instance of a substituent is selected independent of the other s . Each substituent therefore may be identical to or different from the other substituent s .

As used herein the term Formula I may be hereinafter referred to as a compound s of the invention the present invention and compound of Formula I. Such terms are also defined to include all forms of the compound of Formula I including hydrates solvates isomers crystalline and non crystalline forms isomorphs polymorphs and metabolites thereof. For example the compounds of the invention or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof may exist in unsolvated and solvated forms. When the solvent or water is tightly bound the complex will have a well defined stoichiometry independent of humidity. When however the solvent or water is weakly bound as in channel solvates and hygroscopic compounds the water solvent content will be dependent on humidity and drying conditions. In such cases non stoichiometry will be the norm.

The compounds of the invention may exist as clathrates or other complexes. Included within the scope of the invention are complexes such as clathrates drug host inclusion complexes wherein the drug and host are present in stoichiometric or non stoichiometric amounts. Also included are complexes of the compounds of the invention containing two or more organic and or inorganic components which may be in stoichiometric or non stoichiometric amounts. The resulting complexes may be ionized partially ionized or non ionized. For a review of such complexes see J. Pharm. Sci. 64 8 1269 1288 by Haleblian August 1975 .

The compounds of the invention have asymmetric carbon atoms. The carbon carbon bonds of the compounds of the invention may be depicted herein using a solid line a solid wedge or a dotted wedge The use of a solid line to depict bonds to asymmetric carbon atoms is meant to indicate that all possible stereoisomers e.g. specific enantiomers racemic mixtures etc. at that carbon atom are included. The use of either a solid or dotted wedge to depict bonds to asymmetric carbon atoms is meant to indicate that only the stereoisomer shown is meant to be included. It is possible that compounds of Formula I may contain more than one asymmetric carbon atom. In those compounds the use of a solid line to depict bonds to asymmetric carbon atoms is meant to indicate that all possible stereoisomers are meant to be included. For example unless stated otherwise it is intended that the compounds of Formula I can exist as enantiomers and diastereomers or as racemates and mixtures thereof. The use of a solid line to depict bonds to one or more asymmetric carbon atoms in a compound of Formula I and the use of a solid or dotted wedge to depict bonds to other asymmetric carbon atoms in the same compound is meant to indicate that a mixture of diastereomers is present.

Stereoisomers of Formula I include cis and trans isomers optical isomers such as R and S enantiomers diastereomers geometric isomers rotational isomers conformational isomers and tautomers of the compounds of the invention including compounds exhibiting more than one type of isomerism and mixtures thereof such as racemates and diastereomeric pairs . Also included are acid addition or base addition salts wherein the counterion is optically active for example D lactate or L lysine or racemic for example DL tartrate or DL arginine.

When any racemate crystallizes crystals of two different types are possible. The first type is the racemic compound true racemate referred to above wherein one homogeneous form of crystal is produced containing both enantiomers in equimolar amounts. The second type is the racemic mixture or conglomerate wherein two forms of crystal are produced in equimolar amounts each comprising a single enantiomer.

The compounds of Formula I may exhibit the phenomenon of tautomerism such tautomers are also regarded as compounds of the invention. For example the compounds of Formula I may exist in several tautomeric forms including the 3 amino 2 methyl 5 6 dihydro 2H 1 2 4 thiadiazine 1 1 dioxide form I and the 3 imino 2 methyl 1 2 4 thiadiazinane 1 1 dioxide form I . All such tautomeric forms and mixtures thereof are included within the scope of compounds of Formula I. Tautomers exist as mixtures of a tautomeric set in solution. In solid form usually one tautomer predominates. Even though one tautomer may be described the present invention includes all tautomers of the compounds of Formula I and salts thereof. Examples of tautomers are described by the compounds of Formula I and I and collectively and generically are referred to as compounds of Formula I.

The compounds of this invention may be used in the form of salts derived from inorganic or organic acids. Depending on the particular compound a salt of the compound may be advantageous due to one or more of the salt s physical properties such as enhanced pharmaceutical stability in differing temperatures and humidities or a desirable solubility in water or oil. In some instances a salt of a compound also may be used as an aid in the isolation purification and or resolution of the compound.

Where a salt is intended to be administered to a patient as opposed to for example being used in an in vitro context the salt preferably is pharmaceutically acceptable. The term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to a salt prepared by combining a compound of Formula I with an acid whose anion or a base whose cation is generally considered suitable for human consumption. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts are particularly useful as products of the methods of the present invention because of their greater aqueous solubility relative to the parent compound. For use in medicine the salts of the compounds of this invention are non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable salts. Salts encompassed within the term pharmaceutically acceptable salts refer to non toxic salts of the compounds of this invention which are generally prepared by reacting the free base with a suitable organic or inorganic acid.

Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of the compounds of the present invention when possible include those derived from inorganic acids such as hydrochloric hydrobromic hydrofluoric boric fluoroboric phosphoric metaphosphoric nitric carbonic sulfonic and sulfuric acids and organic acids such as acetic benzenesulfonic benzoic citric ethanesulfonic fumaric gluconic glycolic isothionic lactic lactobionic maleic malic methanesulfonic trifluoromethanesulfonic succinic toluenesulfonic tartaric and trifluoroacetic acids. Suitable organic acids generally include for example aliphatic cycloaliphatic aromatic araliphatic heterocyclic carboxylic and sulfonic classes of organic acids.

Specific examples of suitable organic acids include acetate trifluoroacetate formate propionate succinate glycolate gluconate digluconate lactate malate tartaric acid citrate ascorbate glucuronate maleate fumarate pyruvate aspartate glutamate benzoate anthranilate stearate salicylate p hydroxybenzoate phenylacetate mandelate embonate pamoate methanesulfonate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate pantothenate toluenesulfonate 2 hydroxyethanesulfonate sufanilate cyclohexylaminosulfonate algenic acid hydroxybutyric acid galactarate galacturonate adipate alginate butyrate camphorate camphorsulfonate cyclopentanepropionate dodecylsulfate glycoheptanoate glycerophosphate heptanoate hexanoate nicotinate 2 naphthalesulfonate oxalate palmoate pectinate 3 phenylpropionate picrate pivalate thiocyanate and undecanoate.

Furthermore where the compounds of the invention carry an acidic moiety suitable pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof may include the lighter alkali metal salts i.e. sodium or potassium salts alkaline earth metal salts e.g. calcium or magnesium salts and salts formed with suitable organic ligands e.g. quaternary ammonium salts. In another embodiment base salts are formed from bases which form non toxic salts including aluminum arginine benzathine choline diethylamine diolamine glycine lysine meglumine olamine tromethamine and zinc salts.

Organic salts may be made from secondary tertiary or quaternary amine salts such as tromethamine diethylamine N N dibenzylethylenediamine chloroprocaine choline diethanolamine ethylenediamine meglumine N methylglucamine and procaine. Basic nitrogen containing groups may be quaternized with agents such as lower alkyl C C halides e.g. methyl ethyl propyl and butyl chlorides bromides and iodides dialkyl sulfates e.g. dimethyl diethyl dibutyl and diamyl sulfates long chain halides e.g. decyl lauryl myristyl and stearyl chlorides bromides and iodides arylalkyl halides e.g. benzyl and phenethyl bromides and others.

In one embodiment hemisalts of acids and bases may also be formed for example hemisulfate and hemicalcium salts.

Also within the scope of the present invention are so called prodrugs of the compound of the invention. Thus certain derivatives of the compound of the invention which may have little or no pharmacological activity themselves can when administered into or onto the body be converted into the compound of the invention having the desired activity for example by hydrolytic cleavage. Such derivatives are referred to as prodrugs. Further information on the use of prodrugs may be found in Pro drugs as Novel Delivery Systems Vol. 14 ACS Symposium Series T. Higuchi and V. Stella and Bioreversible Carriers in Drug Design Pergamon Press 1987 ed. E. B. Roche American Pharmaceutical Association . Prodrugs in accordance with the invention can for example be produced by replacing appropriate functionalities present in the compounds of any of Formula I with certain moieties known to those skilled in the art as pro moieties as described for example in Design of Prodrugs by H. Bundgaard Elsevier 1985 .

The present invention also includes isotopically labeled compounds which are identical to those recited in Formula I but for the fact that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number usually found in nature. Examples of isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the present invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen sulfur fluorine and chlorine such as H H C C C N O O P S F and Cl respectively. Compounds of the present invention prodrugs thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of said compounds or of said prodrugs that contain the aforementioned isotopes and or other isotopes of other atoms are within the scope of this invention. Certain isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention for example those into which radioactive isotopes such as H and C are incorporated are useful in drug and or substrate tissue distribution assays. Tritiated i.e. H and carbon 14 i.e. C isotopes are particularly preferred for their ease of preparation and detectability. Further substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium i.e. H can afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability for example increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements and hence may be preferred in some circumstances. Isotopically labeled compounds of Formula I of this invention and prodrugs thereof can generally be prepared by carrying out the procedures disclosed in the Schemes and or in the Examples and Preparations below by substituting a readily available isotopically labeled reagent for a non isotopically labeled reagent.

A second embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the first embodiment of the first aspect of Formula Ia

A third embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the first embodiment of the first aspect of Formula Ib

A fourth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of any one of the first through third embodiments of the first aspect wherein Ris pyrazolyl substituted with R or oxazolyl pyridinyl or pyrazinyl substituted with one or two R or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A fifth embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the fourth embodiment of the first aspect wherein Rat each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halo cyano Calkyl optionally substituted with one to three fluoro Calkoxy optionally substituted with one to three fluoro and Calkynyloxy Ris Calkyl optionally substituted with one to three fluoro or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A sixth embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the fifth embodiment of the first aspect wherein Ris 1 difluoromethyl 1H pyrazol 3 yl 2 fluoromethyl 1 3 oxazol 4 yl 5 difluoromethoxy pyridin 2 yl 5 difluoromethoxy 3 methylpyridin 2 yl 3 chloro 5 difluoromethoxy pyridin 2 yl 5 cyanopyridin 2 yl 5 cyano 3 methylpyridin 2 yl 3 chloro 5 cyanopyridin 2 yl 5 but 2 yn 1 yloxy pyridin 2 yl 5 fluoromethyl pyrazin 2 yl 5 difluoromethyl pyrazin 2 yl 5 2 2 difluoropropoxy pyrazin 2 yl or 5 but 2 yn 1 yloxy pyrazin 2 yl or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A seventh embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the sixth embodiment of the first aspect wherein Rand Rare each hydrogen or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

An eighth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the sixth embodiment wherein Rand Rare each methyl or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A ninth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the sixth embodiment of the first aspect wherein one of Rand Ris hydrogen and the other is methyl ethyl cyclopropyl 1 methylcyclopropyl or 2 2 dimethylcyclopropyl or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A tenth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the sixth embodiment of the first aspect wherein Rand R taken together with the carbon to which they are attached form a cyclopropyl cyclobutyl or cyclopentyl ring or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

An eleventh embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of any one of the first through third embodiments of the first embodiment wherein Rand Rare each hydrogen or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A twelfth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of any one of the first through third embodiments of the first aspect wherein Rand Rare each methyl or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A thirteenth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of any one of the first through third embodiments of the first aspect wherein one of Rand Ris hydrogen and the other is methyl ethyl cyclopropyl 1 methylcyclopropyl or 2 2 dimethylcyclopropyl or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A fourteenth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of any one of the first through third embodiments of the first aspect wherein Rand R taken together with the carbon to which they are attached form a cyclopropyl cyclobutyl or cyclopentyl ring or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A fifteenth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the first embodiment of the first aspect selected from the group consisting of

A sixteenth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound N 2 5S 3 amino 2 5 dimethyl 1 1 dioxido 5 6 dihydro 2H 1 2 4 thiadiazin 5 yl 1 3 thiazol 4 yl 5 difluoromethoxy pyridine 2 carboxamide or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A seventeenth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound N 2 5S 6S 3 amino 6 cyclopropyl 2 5 dimethyl 1 1 dioxido 5 6 dihydro pyridine 2 carboxamide or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

An eighteenth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound N 2 5S 3 amino 2 5 dimethyl 1 1 dioxido 5 6 dihydro 2H 1 2 4 thiadiazin 5 yl 1 3 thiazol 4 yl 5 difluoromethoxy 3 methylpyridine 2 carboxamide or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A first embodiment of a second aspect of the present invention is a pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound according to any one of the first through eighteenth embodiments of the first aspect or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

Further embodiments of the present invention include methods of treatment employing the compounds of the present invention.

A first embodiment of a third aspect of the present invention is a method of inhibiting production of amyloid protein in a patient the method comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound according to any one of the first through eighteenth embodiments of the first aspect or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer to a patient in need of inhibition of production of amyloid protein.

A second embodiment of a third aspect of the present invention is a method of inhibiting beta site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 BACE1 in a patient the method comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound according to any one of the first through eighteenth embodiments of the first aspect or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer to a patient in need of inhibition of beta site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 BACE1 .

A third embodiment of a third aspect of the present invention is a method for treating a neurodegenerative disease in a patient the method comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound according to any one of the first through eighteenth embodiments of the first aspect or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer to a patient in need of treatment thereof.

A fourth embodiment of a third aspect of the present invention is the method of the third embodiment of the third aspect wherein the neurodegenerative disease is Alzheimer s disease.

A fifth embodiment of a third aspect of the present invention is a method of treating or preventing diabetes in a patient the method comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound according to any one of the first through eighteenth embodiments of the first aspect or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer to a patient in need of treatment or prevention thereof.

A sixth embodiment of a third aspect of the present invention is the method of the fifth embodiment of the third aspect wherein the diabetes is Type 2 diabetes.

Further embodiments of the present invention include the use of a compound according to any one of first through eighteenth embodiments of the first aspect of the present invention in the preparation of a medicament useful for treating the conditions diseases and disorders as described herein.

Typically a compound of the invention is administered in an amount effective to treat a condition as described herein. The compounds of the invention are administered by any suitable route in the form of a pharmaceutical composition adapted to such a route and in a dose effective for the treatment intended. Therapeutically effective doses of the compounds required to treat the progress of the medical condition are readily ascertained by one of ordinary skill in the art using preclinical and clinical approaches familiar to the medicinal arts.

The compounds of the invention may be administered orally. Oral administration may involve swallowing so that the compound enters the gastrointestinal tract or buccal or sublingual administration may be employed by which the compound enters the blood stream directly from the mouth.

In another embodiment the compounds of the invention may also be administered directly into the blood stream into muscle or into an internal organ. Suitable means for parenteral administration include intravenous intraarterial intraperitoneal intrathecal intraventricular intraurethral intrasternal intracranial intramuscular and subcutaneous. Suitable devices for parenteral administration include needle including microneedle injectors needle free injectors and infusion techniques.

In another embodiment the compounds of the invention may also be administered topically to the skin or mucosa that is dermally or transdermally. In another embodiment the compounds of the invention can also be administered intranasally or by inhalation. In another embodiment the compounds of the invention may be administered rectally or vaginally. In another embodiment the compounds of the invention may also be administered directly to the eye or ear.

The dosage regimen for the compounds and or compositions containing the compounds is based on a variety of factors including the type age weight sex and medical condition of the patient the severity of the condition the route of administration and the activity of the particular compound employed. Thus the dosage regimen may vary widely. Dosage levels of the order from about 0.01 mg to about 100 mg per kilogram of body weight per day are useful in the treatment of the above indicated conditions. In one embodiment the total daily dose of a compound of the invention administered in single or divided doses is typically from about 0.01 to about 100 mg kg. In another embodiment total daily dose of the compound of the invention is from about 0.1 to about 50 mg kg and in another embodiment from about 0.5 to about 30 mg kg i.e. mg compound of the invention per kg body weight . In one embodiment dosing is from 0.01 to 10 mg kg day. In another embodiment dosing is from 0.1 to 1.0 mg kg day. Dosage unit compositions may contain such amounts or submultiples thereof to make up the daily dose. In many instances the administration of the compound will be repeated a plurality of times in a day typically no greater than 4 times . Multiple doses per day typically may be used to increase the total daily dose if desired.

For oral administration the compositions may be provided in the form of tablets containing from about 0.01 mg to about 500 mg of the active ingredient or in another embodiment from about 1 mg to about 100 mg of active ingredient. Intravenously doses may range from about 0.1 to about 10 mg kg minute during a constant rate infusion.

Suitable subjects according to the present invention include mammalian subjects. Mammals according to the present invention include but are not limited to canine feline bovine caprine equine ovine porcine rodents lagomorphs primates and the like and encompass mammals in utero. In one embodiment humans are suitable subjects. Human subjects may be of either gender and at any stage of development.

In another embodiment the invention comprises the use of one or more compounds of the invention for the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of the conditions recited herein.

For the treatment of the conditions referred to above the compound of the invention can be administered as compound per se. Alternatively pharmaceutically acceptable salts are suitable for medical applications because of their greater aqueous solubility relative to the parent compound.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises pharmaceutical compositions. Such pharmaceutical compositions comprise a compound of the invention presented with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The carrier can be a solid a liquid or both and may be formulated with the compound as a unit dose composition for example a tablet which can contain from 0.05 to 95 by weight of the active compounds. A compound of the invention may be coupled with suitable polymers as targetable drug carriers. Other pharmacologically active substances can also be present.

The compounds of the present invention may be administered by any suitable route preferably in the form of a pharmaceutical composition adapted to such a route and in a dose effective for the treatment intended. The active compounds and compositions for example may be administered orally rectally parenterally or topically.

Oral administration of a solid dose form may be for example presented in discrete units such as hard or soft capsules pills cachets lozenges or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of at least one compound of the present invention. In another embodiment the oral administration may be in a powder or granule form. In another embodiment the oral dose form is sub lingual such as for example a lozenge. In such solid dosage forms the compounds of Formula I are ordinarily combined with one or more adjuvants. Such capsules or tablets may contain a controlled release formulation. In the case of capsules tablets and pills the dosage forms also may comprise buffering agents or may be prepared with enteric coatings.

In another embodiment oral administration may be in a liquid dose form. Liquid dosage forms for oral administration include for example pharmaceutically acceptable emulsions solutions suspensions syrups and elixirs containing inert diluents commonly used in the art e.g. water . Such compositions also may comprise adjuvants such as wetting emulsifying suspending flavoring e.g. sweetening and or perfuming agents.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a parenteral dose form. Parenteral administration includes for example subcutaneous injections intravenous injections intraperitoneal injections intramuscular injections intrasternal injections and infusion. Injectable preparations e.g. sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspensions may be formulated according to the known art using suitable dispersing wetting agents and or suspending agents.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a topical dose form. Topical administration includes for example transdermal administration such as via transdermal patches or iontophoresis devices intraocular administration or intranasal or inhalation administration. Compositions for topical administration also include for example topical gels sprays ointments and creams. A topical formulation may include a compound which enhances absorption or penetration of the active ingredient through the skin or other affected areas. When the compounds of this invention are administered by a transdermal device administration will be accomplished using a patch either of the reservoir and porous membrane type or of a solid matrix variety. Typical formulations for this purpose include gels hydrogels lotions solutions creams ointments dusting powders dressings foams films skin patches wafers implants sponges fibers bandages and microemulsions. Liposomes may also be used. Typical carriers include alcohol water mineral oil liquid petrolatum white petrolatum glycerin polyethylene glycol and propylene glycol. Penetration enhancers may be incorporated see for example J. Pharm. Sci. 88 10 955 958 by Finnin and Morgan October 1999 .

Formulations suitable for topical administration to the eye include for example eye drops wherein the compound of this invention is dissolved or suspended in a suitable carrier. A typical formulation suitable for ocular or aural administration may be in the form of drops of a micronized suspension or solution in isotonic pH adjusted sterile saline. Other formulations suitable for ocular and aural administration include ointments biodegradable e.g. absorbable gel sponges collagen and non biodegradable e.g. silicone implants wafers lenses and particulate or vesicular systems such as niosomes or liposomes. A polymer such as cross linked polyacrylic acid polyvinyl alcohol hyaluronic acid a cellulosic polymer for example hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose hydroxyethyl cellulose or methyl cellulose or a heteropolysaccharide polymer for example gelan gum may be incorporated together with a preservative such as benzalkonium chloride. Such formulations may also be delivered by iontophoresis.

For intranasal administration or administration by inhalation the active compounds of the invention are conveniently delivered in the form of a solution or suspension from a pump spray container that is squeezed or pumped by the patient or as an aerosol spray presentation from a pressurized container or a nebulizer with the use of a suitable propellant. Formulations suitable for intranasal administration are typically administered in the form of a dry powder either alone as a mixture for example in a dry blend with lactose or as a mixed component particle for example mixed with phospholipids such as phosphatidylcholine from a dry powder inhaler or as an aerosol spray from a pressurized container pump spray atomizer preferably an atomizer using electrohydrodynamics to produce a fine mist or nebulizer with or without the use of a suitable propellant such as 1 1 1 2 tetrafluoroethane or 1 1 1 2 3 3 3 heptafluoropropane. For intranasal use the powder may comprise a bioadhesive agent for example chitosan or cyclodextrin.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a rectal dose form. Such rectal dose form may be in the form of for example a suppository. Cocoa butter is a traditional suppository base but various alternatives may be used as appropriate.

Other carrier materials and modes of administration known in the pharmaceutical art may also be used. Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may be prepared by any of the well known techniques of pharmacy such as effective formulation and administration procedures. The above considerations in regard to effective formulations and administration procedures are well known in the art and are described in standard textbooks. Formulation of drugs is discussed in for example Hoover John E. Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. 1975 Liberman et al. Eds. Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms Marcel Decker New York N.Y. 1980 and Kibbe et al. Eds. Handbook of Pharmaceutical Excipients 3Ed. American Pharmaceutical Association Washington 1999.

The compounds of the present invention can be used alone or in combination with other therapeutic agents in the treatment of various conditions or disease states. The compound s of the present invention and other therapeutic agent s may be may be administered simultaneously either in the same dosage form or in separate dosage forms or sequentially.

Two or more compounds may be administered simultaneously concurrently or sequentially. Additionally simultaneous administration may be carried out by mixing the compounds prior to administration or by administering the compounds at the same point in time but at different anatomic sites or using different routes of administration.

The phrases concurrent administration co administration simultaneous administration and administered simultaneously mean that the compounds are administered in combination.

The present invention includes the use of a combination of a BACE inhibitor compound as provided in Formula I and one or more additional pharmaceutically active agent s . If a combination of active agents is administered then they may be administered sequentially or simultaneously in separate dosage forms or combined in a single dosage form. Accordingly the present invention also includes pharmaceutical compositions comprising an amount of a a first agent comprising a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the compound b a second pharmaceutically active agent and c a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier vehicle or diluent.

The compounds of this invention may also be used in conjunction with other pharmaceutical agents for the treatment of the diseases conditions and or disorders described herein. Therefore methods of treatment that include administering compounds of the present invention in combination with other pharmaceutical agents are also provided. Suitable pharmaceutical agents that may be used in combination with the compounds of the present invention include without limitation 

The present invention further comprises kits that are suitable for use in performing the methods of treatment described above. In one embodiment the kit contains a first dosage form comprising one or more of the compounds of the present invention and a container for the dosage in quantities sufficient to carry out the methods of the present invention.

In another embodiment the kit of the present invention comprises one or more compounds of the invention.

The compounds of Formula I may be prepared by the methods described below together with synthetic methods known in the art of organic chemistry or modifications and transformations that are familiar to those of ordinary skill in the art. The starting materials used herein are commercially available or may be prepared by routine methods known in the art such as those methods disclosed in standard reference books such as the Vol. I XII published by Wiley Interscience . Preferred methods include but are not limited to those described below.

During any of the following synthetic sequences it may be necessary and or desirable to protect sensitive or reactive groups on any of the molecules concerned. This can be achieved by means of conventional protecting groups such as those described in T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry John Wiley Sons 1981 T. W. Greene and P. G. M. Wuts Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry John Wiley Sons 1991 and T. W. Greene and P. G. M. Wuts Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry John Wiley Sons 1999 which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Compounds of Formula I or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts can be prepared according to the reaction Schemes discussed herein below. Unless otherwise indicated the substituents in the Schemes are defined as above. Isolation and purification of the products is accomplished by standard procedures which are known to a chemist of ordinary skill.

It will be understood by one skilled in the art that the various symbols superscripts and subscripts used in the schemes methods and examples are used for convenience of representation and or to reflect the order in which they are introduced in the schemes and are not intended to necessarily correspond to the symbols superscripts or subscripts in the appended claims. Additionally one skilled in the art will recognize that in many cases these compounds will be mixtures and enantiomers that may be separated at various stages of the synthetic schemes using conventional techniques such as but not limited to crystallization normal phase chromatography reversed phase chromatography and chiral chromatography to afford single enantiomers. The schemes are representative of methods useful in synthesizing the compounds of the present invention. They are not to constrain the scope of the invention in any way.

Scheme 1 refers to the preparation of compounds of Formula I Ia and Ib. Referring to Scheme 1 the compound of Formula III III or III can be prepared from the compound of Formula II II or II via a standard peptide coupling with a carboxylic acid and a suitable coupling reagent for example but not limited to O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate HATU or 2 4 6 tripropyl 1 3 5 2 4 6 trioxatriphosphinane 2 4 6 trioxide in ethyl acetate T3P . A compound of Formula I Ia or Ib can then be prepared through removal of protecting group P. Pin this case refers to groups well known to those skilled in the art for amine protection. For example Pmay be a benzoyl group Bz which can be cleaved via basic conditions including but not limited to treatment with 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DBU in methanol. Alternatively Pmay be one of many other protecting groups suitable for amines including 9 fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl Fmoc or tert butoxy carbonyl BOC and can be cleaved under standard conditions known in the art.

Scheme 2 refers to the preparation of compounds II wherein Pis Bz or Boc. Sulfinimines of Formula V are transformed to adducts of Formula VI via the addition of an appropriately metallated sulfonamide IV generated for example through treatment with n butyllithium . Sulfonamides of Formula VII are prepared through the deprotection of compound VI with a appropriate agent such as but not limited to trifluoroacetic acid in 1 3 dimethoxybenzene. Compounds of Formula IX are then prepared via treatment with the appropriate isothiocyanate such as benzoyl isothiocyanate and subsequent ring closure of VIII using an appropriate alkylating agent such as methyl iodide with a base such as potassium carbonate. Conversion of the bromothiazole of Formula IX to the corresponding amine can be effected via a transition metal catalyzed coupling reaction such as a palladium mediated amination. An example includes using a protected ammonia source such as but not limited to 1 2 4 dimethoxyphenyl methanamine and a suitable catalyst and ligand choice for example tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 and di tert butyl 2 4 6 tri propan 2 yl biphenyl 2 yl phosphane or biphenyl 2 yl di tert butyl phosphane John Phos . Alternatively one can utilize a copper mediated azide coupling method. One skilled in the art will recognize that the requisite protected ammonia source will need to be deprotected to afford compounds of Formula II . In the example utilizing 1 2 4 dimethoxyphenyl methanamine said deprotection can be effected via acidic hydrolysis such as treatment with concentrated hydrochloric acid. Compound II can be converted into a compound of Formula Ia according to the methods of Scheme 1. It is to be understood by one skilled in the art that the compounds of Formula I and Ib can be prepared in an analogous manner.

Scheme 3 refers to the preparation of compounds IX. The alkylation of compounds of Formula X may be accomplished in a variety of ways known to those skilled in the art. As an example compounds of the Formula X may be treated with a suitable strong base including but not limited to lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide or sodium bis trimethylsilyl amide followed by treatment with an alkylating agent such as but not limited to methyl ethyl or other alkyl iodides. Additionally the stereochemistry of the initial product may alternatively be adjusted by further treatment with base followed by protonation with an agent such as water or aqueous ammonium chloride. Additional bases that have utility include lithium diisopropylamide or potassium tert butoxide. Alternatively the introduction of a group such as Ror Rwherein one of Rand Ris hydrogen may be initiated by a suitable olefination of X using a suitable base as described above and a reagent such as dimethylmethylideneammonium iodide Eschenmoser s salt . The resulting dimethylamine adduct may be eliminated directly with base or may be treated with methyl iodide or an oxidizing agent such as perbenzoic acid or tert butyl hydroperoxide and subjected to treatment with a base such as described above with the formation of a methylene group. The resulting exo olefin may be reduced by catalytic hydrogenation over a catalyst consisting of supported or unsupported palladium nickel or platinum. Alternatively the exo olefin group may be reduced through conjugate hydride addition with for instance lithium tri sec butylborohydride or lithium aluminum hydride followed by protonation of the resulting anion as described above. A compound of Formula IX can be then be transformed into a compound of Formula II according to the methods described above for Scheme 2. It will be understood by one skilled in the art that the compounds of Formula II or II can be prepared in an analogous manner.

AlMe trimethylaluminum br broad BuNNO tetrabutylammonium nitrate CaCl calcium chloride CDCl deutero chloroform CDOD deutero methanol CFCO O trifluoroacetic anhydride d doublet dd doublet of doublets DBU 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DCM dichloromethane DMF N N dimethylformamide EDC or EDCI 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide hydrochloride EtOAc ethyl acetate EtOH ethanol Fe iron g gram h hour HATU O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate HCl hydrochloric acid HO water HPLC high performance liquid chromatography Hz hertz KCO potassium carbonate L liter LCMS liquid chromatography mass spectroscopy LiOH lithium hydroxide m multiplet M molar Mel methyl iodide MeOH methanol mg milligram MHz megahertz min minute L microliter mL milliliter mol micromole mmol millimole mol mole N normal NaH sodium hydride n BuLi n butyllithium NEt triethylamine NHCl ammonium chloride NaHCO sodium bicarbonate NaOAc sodium acetate NaOCl sodium hypochlorite NaOH sodium hydroxide NaOMe sodium methoxide NaOtBu sodium tert butoxide NaSO sodium sulfate NHOH HCl hydroxylamine hydrochloride NMR nuclear magnetic resonance NOE Nuclear Overhauser effect Pd dba tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 Pd dppf Cl 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II PPh triphenylphosphine q quartet rt room temperature s singlet t triplet TBAF tetrabutylammonium fluoride t ButylXPhos di tert butyl 2 4 6 tri propan 2 yl biphenyl 2 yl phosphane TFA or CFCOH trifluoroacetic acid THF tetrahydrofuran TLC thin layer chromatography Zn CN zinc cyanide.

The following illustrate the synthesis of various compounds of the present invention. Additional compounds within the scope of this invention may be prepared using the methods illustrated in these Examples either alone or in combination with techniques generally known in the art.

Experiments were generally carried out under inert atmosphere nitrogen or argon particularly in cases where oxygen or moisture sensitive reagents or intermediates were employed. Commercial solvents and reagents were generally used without further purification. Anhydrous solvents were employed where appropriate generally AcroSeal products from Acros Organics or DriSolv products from EMD Chemicals. In other cases commercial solvents were passed through columns packed with 4 molecular sieves until the following QC standards for water were attained a 

Reactions proceeding through detectable intermediates were generally followed by LCMS and allowed to proceed to full conversion prior to addition of subsequent reagents. For syntheses referencing procedures in other Examples or Methods reaction conditions reaction time and temperature may vary. In general reactions were followed by thin layer chromatography or mass spectrometry and subjected to work up when appropriate. Purifications may vary between experiments in general solvents and the solvent ratios used for eluents gradients were chosen to provide appropriate Rs or retention times. All starting materials in these Preparations and Examples are either commercially available or can be prepared by methods known in the art or as described herein.

This experiment was carried out in two identical batches. Sodium hydride 60 in mineral oil 53.3 g 1.33 mol was added in portions to a 0 C. solution of N 4 methoxybenzyl methanesulfonamide 205 g 952 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 2.5 L and the reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 minutes. Iodomethane 245 g 1.73 mol was then added drop wise over 30 minutes at 0 C. whereupon the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature 18 C. for 1 hour then poured into ice water 2 L . The resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 1 L and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 3 1 L dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The two batches of crude product were combined diluted with petroleum ether 2 L and stirred at room temperature 20 C. for 30 minutes the resulting solid was isolated via filtration to afford the product as a yellow solid. Yield 392 g 1.71 mol 90 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.28 br d J 8.5 Hz 2H 6.90 br d J 8.5 Hz 2H 4.26 s 2H 3.82 s 3H 2.81 s 3H 2.76 s 3H .

This experiment was carried out in two identical batches. Titanium IV ethoxide 321 g 1.41 mol was added in one portion to a room temperature 15 C. solution of 1 4 bromo 1 3 thiazol 2 yl ethanone 145 g 704 mmol and R 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide 128 g 1.06 mol in tetrahydrofuran 2.0 L and the reaction mixture was heated at 75 C. for 16 hours. It was then cooled to room temperature 15 C. quenched with water 500 mL and filtered. The filter cake was washed with ethyl acetate 4 500 mL and the combined filtrates were concentrated in vacuo. The residues from the two batches were combined and purified via silica gel chromatography Gradient 5 to 25 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether providing the product as a yellow solid. Yield 340 g 1.10 mol 78 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.42 s 1H 2.85 s 3H 1.32 s 9H .

This experiment was carried out in two identical batches. n Butyllithium 2.5 M solution in hexanes 165 mL 412 mmol was added in a drop wise manner over 1 hour to a 70 C. solution of C1 98.0 g 427 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 1.5 L . After the reaction mixture had stirred at 70 C. for 1 hour a solution of C2 85 g 275 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 600 mL was added drop wise over 30 minutes and stirring was then continued at 70 C. for 1 hour. Saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 1.0 L was added at 70 C. the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 1 L and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The two reaction products were combined and purified via silica gel chromatography Gradient 10 to 80 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether to afford a white solid 145 g . This material was treated with tert butyl methyl ether 1.4 L and stirred at room temperature 15 C. for 2 hours whereupon the solid was collected via filtration to afford the product as a white solid. The indicated absolute stereochemistry is that expected from this transformation see J. A. Ellman et al. 2010 110 3600 3740 single crystal X ray structural analysis on 9 see below which was synthesized from P1 confirmed this absolute stereochemistry. Yield 135 g 251 mmol 46 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.21 br d J 8.5 Hz 2H 7.20 s 1H 6.86 br d J 8.5 Hz 2H 6.32 s 1H 4.06 AB quartet J 14.6 Hz 66.7 Hz 2H 4.00 d J 13.6 Hz 1H 3.80 s 3H 3.70 d J 14.0 Hz 1H 2.61 s 3H 1.97 s 3H 1.36 s 9H .

A solution of hydrogen chloride in 1 4 dioxane 4 M 400 mL 1.6 mol was added drop wise to a solution of C3 175 g 325 mmol in dichloromethane 1.2 L and methanol 600 mL at room temperature 13 C. and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature 13 C. for 2 hours. Removal of solvents in vacuo afforded the product 180 g as a colorless oil which was used in the next step without further purification. LCMS m z 457.8 M Na bromine isotope pattern observed .

To a solution of C4 from the previous step 180 g 325 mmol in chloroform 1.2 L were added trifluoroacetic acid 900 mL and 1 3 dimethoxybenzene 400 g 2.89 mol at room temperature 13 C. . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature 13 C. for 16 hours whereupon it was concentrated in vacuo and diluted with aqueous hydrochloric acid 1 M 1.0 L . The resulting mixture was washed with tert butyl methyl ether 2 800 mL and the aqueous layer was basified to pH 8 with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution then extracted with ethyl acetate 3 600 mL . The combined ethyl acetate layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 500 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford a yellow oil. This material was combined with the corresponding product obtained from a similar two step reaction sequence carried out on C3 125 g 232 mmol to provide the product as a yellow oil. Yield 174 g 554 mmol 99 over 2 steps. LCMS m z 313.6 315.6 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.20 s 1H 3.94 d J 14.6 Hz 1H 3.94 3.86 m 1H 3.42 d J 14.6 Hz 1H 2.72 d J 5.0 Hz 3H 2.58 2.42 br s 2H 1.66 s 3H .

This experiment was carried out in two identical batches. Benzoyl isothiocyanate 63.9 g 392 mmol was added in one portion to a room temperature 13 C. solution of C5 82 g 261 mmol in dichloromethane 1.8 L . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature 13 C. for 16 hours whereupon it was concentrated in vacuo and the two batches were combined. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 10 to 80 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether afforded the product as an off white foam. Yield 226 g 473 mmol 91 . LCMS m z 478.7 M H bromine isotope pattern observed . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 11.64 s 1H 9.00 s 1H 7.87 br d J 8 Hz 2H 7.65 br t J 7.4 Hz 1H 7.53 br dd J 8.0 7.5 Hz 2H 7.26 s 1H 5.18 d J 14.8 Hz 1H 4.59 br q J 5 Hz 1H 4.13 d J 14.6 Hz 1H 2.86 d J 5.3 Hz 3H 2.13 s 3H .

Iodomethane 61.5 g 433 mmol was added drop wise to a room temperature 13 C. mixture of C6 110 g 230 mmol and potassium carbonate 63.7 g 461 mmol in acetonitrile 1.5 L . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature 13 C. for 16 hours whereupon it was diluted with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 1.0 L and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 800 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 800 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to a volume of approximately 200 mL. After addition of petroleum ether 1.0 L the mixture was stirred at room temperature 13 C. for 30 minutes whereupon the precipitate was collected via filtration to afford the product as a white solid. Yield 94 g 210 mmol 91 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 12.44 s 1H 8.27 8.22 m 2H 7.59 7.53 m 1H 7.46 br dd J 7.8 7.3 Hz 2H 7.22 s 1H 4.49 d J 13.8 Hz 1H 3.72 d J 13.8 Hz 1H 3.47 s 3H 1.99 s 3H .

1 8 Diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene 25.8 g 169 mmol was added in one portion to a room temperature 13 C. suspension of C7 75.0 g 169 mmol in methanol 1.5 L . The reaction mixture was refluxed for 16 hours whereupon it was cooled and concentrated in vacuo. After the residue had been dissolved in ethyl acetate 2.0 L it was washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 600 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the product 76 g as a yellow oil which was used directly in the following step.

Di tert butyl dicarbonate 92.2 g 422 mmol and triethylamine 59.9 g 592 mmol were added to a room temperature 13 C. solution of C8 from the previous step 76 g 169 mmol in dichloromethane 1.5 L and the reaction mixture was stirred at 35 C. for 36 hours whereupon it was cooled and concentrated in vacuo to afford a yellow oil. This was combined with two similar crude products from two step reaction sequences carried out on C7 94.0 g 212 mmol and 33.8 g 76.2 mmol and the resulting material was purified via silica gel chromatography Gradient 3 to 20 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether . The fractions containing product were concentrated until approximately 50 mL of solvent remained and then diluted with petroleum ether 1 L this mixture was stirred at room temperature 13 C. for 30 minutes. The resulting solid was collected via filtration to afford the product 90 g as a white solid. The mother liquor was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was chromatographed on silica gel Gradient 3 to 20 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether to provide additional product as a white solid 4.1 g . Combined yield 94.1 g 214 mmol 47 over 2 steps. LCMS m z 440.6 M H bromine isotope pattern observed . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.93 br s 1H 7.22 s 1H 4.42 d J 14.0 Hz 1H 3.66 d J 13.8 Hz 1H 3.28 s 3H 1.94 s 3H 1.54 s 9H .

A mixture of C9 44.25 g 100.7 mmol tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 8.38 g 9.15 mmol biphenyl 2 yl di tert butyl phosphane John Phos 6.37 g 21.3 mmol sodium tert butoxide 32.2 g 335 mmol and 1 1 diphenylmethanimine 20.4 mL 122 mmol in toluene 640 mL was evacuated and charged with nitrogen. This evacuation cycle was repeated twice whereupon the reaction mixture was stirred at 60 C. for 1 hour. It was then filtered through diatomaceous earth and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to provide the product as an amber oil. This material was taken directly to the following step.

A solution of C10 from the previous step 100.7 mmol in methanol 1.34 L was treated with hydroxylamine hydrochloride 14.0 g 201 mmol and sodium acetate 16.5 g 201 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour whereupon saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution was added. The resulting mixture was extracted twice with ethyl acetate the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as an amber solid. Yield 31.3 g 83.4 mmol 83 over 2 steps. LCMS m z 374.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 6.02 s 1H 4.44 d J 13.9 Hz 1H 4.09 d J 14 Hz 1H 3.17 s 3H 1.85 br s 3H 1.50 s 9H .

A mixture of tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 87.9 mg 95.9 mol di tert butyl 2 4 6 tri propan 2 yl biphenyl 2 yl phosphane 95 125 mg 0.279 mmol and sodium tert butoxide 406 mg 4.22 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 5 mL which had been sparged with argon was stirred at 70 C. for 10 minutes whereupon a solution of C7 826 mg 1.86 mmol and 1 2 4 dimethoxyphenyl methanamine 561 mg 3.36 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 5 mL which had been spared w argon was added. Stirring was continued at 70 C. for 15 minutes at which time the reaction mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature. It was then poured into aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 30 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 30 mL . The combined ethyl acetate layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as an orange white solid. Yield 925 mg 1.75 mmol 94 . LCMS m z 530.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.26 8.21 m 2H 7.57 7.51 m 1H 7.48 7.42 m 2H 7.18 d J 8.2 Hz 1H 6.47 d half of AB quartet J 2.3 Hz 1H 6.43 dd half of ABX pattern J 8.2 2.4 Hz 1H 6.06 br s 1H 4.40 d J 13.8 Hz 1H 4.28 s 2H 3.85 s 3H 3.80 s 3H 3.70 d J 13.8 Hz 1H 3.46 s 3H 1.97 s 3H .

Trifluoroacetic acid 2.0 mL was added drop wise to a 0 C. solution of C11 922 mg. 1.74 mmol in dichloromethane 15 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 hour whereupon it was concentrated in vacuo the residue was partitioned between saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 30 mL and ethyl acetate 30 mL and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 30 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as a yellow orange white solid. Yield 475 mg 1.25 mmol 72 . LCMS m z 380.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.27 8.21 m 2H 7.57 7.51 m 1H 7.45 br dd J 8 7.3 Hz 2H 6.19 s 1H 4.44 d J 13.8 Hz 1H 3.71 d J 13.8 Hz 1H 3.46 s 3H 1.98 s 3H .

Triethylamine 4.51 mL 32.3 mmol was added to a 20 C. solution of 1 4 methoxyphenyl N methylmethanamine 5.38 g 35.6 mmol in dichloromethane 132 mL . After drop wise addition of cyclopropylmethanesulfonyl chloride 5.00 g 32.3 mmol the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature over a period of 6 hours and was then stirred for an additional 16 hours. It was then partitioned between water 200 mL and dichloromethane 250 mL and the aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 3 100 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 50 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was adsorbed onto silica gel as a solution in dichloromethane silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 70 ethyl acetate in heptane followed by ethyl acetate to elute material that had precipitated on the column afforded a brown solid. This material was triturated with heptane 50 mL the resulting solid was isolated via filtration and washed with heptane 3 15 mL to provide the product as a white solid. Yield 7.4 g 27 mmol 84 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.29 br d J 8.5 Hz 2H 6.90 br d J 8.7 Hz 2H 4.32 s 2H 3.82 s 3H 2.94 d J 7.1 Hz 2H 2.79 s 3H 1.21 1.10 m 1H 0.77 0.68 m 2H 0.41 0.32 m 2H .

n Butyllithium 2.5 M solution in hexanes 1.29 mL 3.23 mmol was added in a drop wise manner to a 78 C. solution of C12 0.871 g 3.23 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 20 mL at a rate that kept the reaction temperature below 70 C. This reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 1 hour. In a separate flask trimethylaluminum 2.0 M solution in toluene 0.808 mL 1.62 mmol was added drop wise to a 78 C. solution of C2 0.500 g 1.62 mmol in toluene 8 mL and this reaction mixture was allowed to stir at 78 C. for 20 minutes. The C12 reaction mixture was then added via cannula to the C2 reaction mixture and stirring was continued at 78 C. for 3.5 hours whereupon the reaction was quenched with water 50 mL and allowed to warm to room temperature. After extraction of the aqueous layer with ethyl acetate 3 25 mL the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was adsorbed onto silica gel as a solution in dichloromethane and purified via chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane to afford the product as a white solid. By H NMR analysis this material consisted of an approximately 3 2 mixture of diastereomers. Yield 0.614 g 1.06 mmol 65 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 7.25 7.20 m 2H 7.20 s and 7.14 s total 1H 6.88 6.82 m 2H 3.79 s and 3.79 s total 3H 3.38 d J 11.2 Hz and 3.25 d J 11.0 Hz total 1H 2.67 s and 2.65 s total 3H 2.10 s and 2.06 s total 3H 1.39 s and 1.34 s total 9H 1.08 0.39 m 5H .

A solution of hydrogen chloride in 1 4 dioxane 4.0 M 1.60 mL 6.40 mmol was added to a solution of C13 0.614 g 1.06 mmol in dichloromethane 10 mL and methanol 2 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours whereupon it was concentrated in vacuo and the residue was azeotroped with toluene 2 50 mL . The resulting solid was dissolved in chloroform 10 mL and treated with 1 3 dimethoxybenzene 0.833 mL 6.36 mmol and trifluoroacetic acid 1.5 mL 19 mmol . After stirring at room temperature for 16 hours the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue was treated with aqueous hydrochloric acid 0.25 M 60 mL and washed with diethyl ether 3 100 mL . These organic washes were discarded and the aqueous layer was basified to pH 9 via addition of solid sodium bicarbonate. It was then extracted with ethyl acetate 3 100 mL and the combined ethyl acetate layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the product as a white solid. By H NMR analysis this material consisted of an approximately 3 2 mixture of diastereomers. Yield 0.40 g 1.1 mmol quantitative. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 7.37 s and 7.36 s total 1H 3.55 d J 10.9 Hz and 3.52 d J 11.0 Hz total 1H 2.91 s and 2.83 s total 3H 2.17 s and 2.10 s total 3H 1.0 0.48 m 4H .

Benzoyl isothiocyanate 0.212 mL 1.58 mmol was added to a solution of C14 0.40 g 1.1 mmol in dichloromethane 15 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours. Removal of solvent in vacuo provided the crude product as a yellow solid 0.60 g which was used directly in the following step.

To an acetonitrile 15 mL solution of C15 from the previous step 0.60 g 1.1 mmol was added potassium carbonate 240 mg 1.74 mmol followed by iodomethane 0.108 mL 1.73 mmol and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 16 hours. It was then diluted with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 50 mL and water 20 mL and the resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 100 mL . The combined organic layers were filtered and concentrated in vacuo the residue was adsorbed onto silica gel as a solution in dichloromethane. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 60 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as a white solid. By H NMR analysis this material consisted of an approximately 7 4 mixture of diastereomers. Four isomers were observed via chiral supercritical fluid chromatography Column Phenomenex Lux Cellulose 4 5 m Mobile phase A carbon dioxide Mobile phase B methanol containing 0.2 ammonium hydroxide Gradient 5 to 60 B in a ratio of 32 5 11 53. Yield 0.284 g 0.59 mmol 54 over 2 steps. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 8.26 8.21 m 2H 7.58 7.52 m 1H 7.49 7.43 m 2H 7.25 s and 7.23 s total 1H 3.58 d J 11.0 Hz and 2.95 d J 10.8 Hz total 1H 3.50 s and 3.47 s total 3H 2.09 s and 2.08 s total 3H 1.13 0.80 m 3H 0.53 0.34 m 1H .

A mixture of sodium tert butoxide 97 0.117 g 1.18 mmol tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 97 25.4 mg 26.9 mol and di tert butyl 2 4 6 tri propan 2 yl biphenyl 2 yl phosphane 95 36.1 mg 80.8 mol was stirred under nitrogen and then purged in three cycles of evacuation followed by nitrogen fill. 1 4 Dioxane 5 mL was added and the resulting mixture was stirred at 70 C. for 10 minutes whereupon a solution of C16 0.26 g 0.54 mmol and 1 2 4 dimethoxyphenyl methanamine 0.145 mL 0.965 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 5 mL was added to the 70 C. mixture. Stirring was continued at 70 C. for 20 minutes the reaction mixture was then cooled to room temperature and poured into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 100 mL . The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 100 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was adsorbed onto silica gel as a solution in dichloromethane and subjected to chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 70 ethyl acetate in heptane providing the product as a white solid. By H NMR analysis this material consisted of an approximately 1 1 mixture of diastereomers. Yield 288 mg 0.506 mmol 94 . LCMS m z 570.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 12.09 br s and 11.96 br s total 1H 8.27 8.19 m 2H 7.56 7.49 m 1H 7.48 7.40 m 2H 7.19 d J 8.2 Hz and 7.18 d J 8.2 Hz total 1H 6.48 6.45 m 1H 6.43 dd half of ABX pattern J 8.2 2.4 Hz 1H 5.89 br s and 5.83 br s total 1H 4.24 s and 4.23 s total 2H 3.84 s 3H 3.80 s and 3.80 s total 3H 3.49 s and 3.45 s total 3H 2.07 s and 2.03 s total 3H .

Triethylamine 4.50 mL 32.3 mmol was added to a 20 C. solution of 1 4 methoxyphenyl N methylmethanamine 5.38 g 35.6 mmol in dichloromethane 130 mL . Propane 2 sulfonyl chloride 4.61 g 32.3 mmol was introduced drop wise the reaction mixture was then allowed to warm to room temperature over a period of 6 hours and stir for an additional 16 hours. The reaction mixture was partitioned between water 200 mL and dichloromethane 250 mL and the aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 3 100 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 50 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was adsorbed onto silica gel as a solution in dichloromethane and subjected to silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 70 ethyl acetate in heptane during this process the product partially precipitated on the chromatographic column so the column was also eluted with ethyl acetate. The material from the column was obtained as a brown solid which was then triturated with heptane 50 mL to afford a white solid. This material was washed with heptane 3 15 mL providing the product as a white solid. Yield 5.47 g 21.3 mmol 66 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.28 br d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.89 br d J 8.8 Hz 2H 4.33 s 2H 3.82 s 3H 3.28 septet J 6.8 Hz 1H 2.78 s 3H 1.40 d J 6.8 Hz 6H .

Conversion of C17 to C18 was carried out using the method described for synthesis of C13 from C12 in Preparation P3. The product was obtained as an orange solid by H NMR analysis this material consisted of an approximately 3 2 mixture of diastereomers. Yield 528 mg 0.932 mmol 58 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 7.24 7.16 m 3H 6.87 6.80 m 2H 6.63 br s and 6.23 br s total 1H 3.79 s and 3.78 s total 3H 2.78 2.65 m 3H 2.02 s 3H 1.78 s and 1.68 s total 3H 1.63 s and 1.55 s total 3H 1.36 s and 1.36 s total 9H .

Conversion of C18 to C19 was carried out using the method described for synthesis of C14 from C13 in Preparation P3 except that the trifluoroacetic acid mediated deprotection was effected without added solvent. The product was isolated as a white solid. Yield 291 mg 0.850 mmol 91 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.21 s 1H 2.81 s 3H 1.73 s 3H 1.65 s 3H 1.59 s 3H .

Conversion of C19 290 mg 0.847 mmol to C20 was effected using the procedure described for synthesis of C15 from C14 in Preparation P3. The product was obtained as a yellow solid which was taken directly into the following step. LCMS m z 505.1 507.1 M H .

Conversion of C20 from the previous reaction 0.847 mmol to C21 was carried out using the method described for synthesis of C16 from C15 in Preparation P3. The product was isolated as a white solid. Yield 170 mg 0.361 mmol 43 over 2 steps. LCMS m z 471.1 473.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 12.45 br s 1H 8.27 8.23 m 2H 7.58 7.52 m 1H 7.49 7.43 m 2H 7.25 s 1H 3.52 s 3H 2.03 s 3H 1.81 s 3H 1.56 s 3H .

A mixture of sodium tert butoxide 97 67.0 mg 0.676 mmol tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 97 14.5 mg 15.4 mol and di tert butyl 2 4 6 tri propan 2 yl biphenyl 2 yl phosphane 95 20.6 mg 46.1 mol was stirred under nitrogen and then purged in three cycles of evacuation followed by nitrogen fill. 1 4 Dioxane 10 mL was added and the solution was stirred at 70 C. for 10 minutes at which time a solution of C21 0.145 g 0.308 mmol and 1 2 4 dimethoxyphenyl methanamine 92.6 mg 0.554 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 10 mL was added to the hot 70 C. reaction mixture. After being stirred at 70 C. for 80 minutes the reaction mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature whereupon it was poured into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 100 mL . The resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 100 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide an orange oil 195 mg which consisted of an approximately 1 1 mixture of C21 and P4 by LCMS analysis. This material was resubjected to the same reaction conditions using the following reagent quantities sodium tert butoxide 97 41.3 mg 0.417 mmol tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 97 8.94 mg 9.47 mol di tert butyl 2 4 6 tri propan 2 yl biphenyl 2 yl phosphane 95 12.7 mg 28.4 mol and 1 2 4 dimethoxyphenyl methanamine 57.0 mg 0.341 mmol . In this case the reaction mixture was stirred at 70 C. for 20 minutes. The crude product from this resubmission was adsorbed onto silica gel as a solution in dichloromethane silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 70 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 135 mg 0.242 mmol 79 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 12.31 br s 1H 8.27 8.23 m 2H 7.55 7.50 m 1H 7.47 7.41 m 2H 7.20 d J 8.2 Hz 1H 6.48 d half of AB quartet J 2.4 Hz 1H 6.45 dd half of ABX pattern J 8.3 2.4 Hz 1H 5.75 s 1H 4.75 4.68 m 1H 4.26 4.21 m 2H 3.85 s 3H 3.82 s 3H 3.51 s 3H 2.03 s 3H 1.82 s 3H 1.42 s 3H .

n Butyllithium 2.5 M solution in hexanes 3.66 mL 9.15 mmol was added drop wise to a 72 C. internal reaction temperature solution of N 4 methoxybenzyl N methylmethanesulfonamide 2.00 g 8.72 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 35 mL at a rate that maintained the internal temperature at 70 C. or below. After the reaction mixture had stirred at 70 C. for 1 hour iodomethane 0.983 mL 15.8 mmol was added in a drop wise manner and stirring was continued at 70 C. for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was then allowed to warm to room temperature over 16 hours whereupon it was diluted with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 150 mL and water 120 mL . The resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 100 mL and the combined organic layers were filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was adsorbed onto silica gel as a solution in dichloromethane and subjected to silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane providing the product as a white solid. Yield 1.92 g 7.89 mmol 90 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.30 7.25 m 2H assumed partially obscured by solvent peak 6.90 br d J 8.5 Hz 2H 4.31 s 2H 3.82 s 3H 3.02 q J 7.4 Hz 2H 2.77 s 3H 1.39 t J 7.4 Hz 3H .

Conversion of C22 to C23 was carried out using the method described for synthesis of C13 from C12 in Preparation P3. The product was isolated as a white solid. By H NMR analysis this material consisted of at least three diastereomers in a ratio of approximately 5 4 3. Yield 1.57 g 2.84 mmol 73 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 7.24 7.17 m and 6.89 6.83 m total 5H 3.80 s 3.80 s and 3.80 s total 3H 2.73 s 2.68 s and 2.64 s total 3H 2.07 s 2.00 s and 1.94 s total 3H 1.75 d J 7.1 Hz 1.54 d J 7.1 Hz and 1.53 d J 7.1 Hz total 3H 1.37 s 1.34 s and 1.28 s total 9H .

A solution of hydrogen chloride in 1 4 dioxane 4.0 M 4.13 mL 16.5 mmol was added to a solution of C23 1.52 g 2.75 mmol in dichloromethane 30 mL and methanol 6 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. After removal of solvent in vacuo the residue was azeotroped with toluene 2 50 mL and the resulting yellow solid was then dissolved in a mixture of 1 3 dimethoxybenzene 5 mL and trifluoroacetic acid 10 mL . This reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours whereupon aqueous hydrochloric acid 0.25 M 100 mL was added and the mixture was washed with diethyl ether 3 100 mL . The aqueous layer was basified to pH 9 by addition of 1 M aqueous sodium hydroxide solution and then extracted with ethyl acetate 3 100 mL . The combined ethyl acetate layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the product as a colorless oil. By H NMR analysis this material consisted of an approximately 3 2 mixture of diastereomers. Yield 886 mg 2.70 mmol 98 . Major diastereomer H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.17 s 1H 4.18 br q J 5 Hz 1H 3.89 q J 7.1 Hz 1H 2.85 d J 5.2 Hz 3H 2.4 2.2 br s 2H 1.82 s 3H 1.33 d J 7.1 Hz 3H . Minor diastereomer H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.18 s 1H 4.00 q J 7.2 Hz 1H 3.70 br q J 5 Hz 1H 2.67 d J 5.3 Hz 3H 2.4 2.2 br s 2H 1.57 s 3H 1.53 d J 7.2 Hz 3H .

Conversion of C24 to C25 was effected using the method described for synthesis of C15 from C14 in Preparation P3. The product was obtained as a yellow solid which was taken directly to the following step.

Conversion of C25 to C26 was carried out using the procedure described for synthesis of C16 from C15 in Preparation P3. The product was isolated as a white solid that by H NMR analysis consisted of an approximately 3 2 mixture of diastereomers. Yield 390 mg 0.853 mmol 32 over 2 steps. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 12.38 br s and 12.32 br s total 1H 8.27 8.21 m 2H 7.58 7.52 m 1H 7.49 7.42 m 2H 7.25 s and 7.24 s total 1H 4.33 q J 7.1 Hz and 3.78 q J 7.1 Hz total 1H 3.51 s and 3.49 s total 3H 2.03 s and 1.93 s total 3H 1.76 d J 7.1 Hz and 1.65 d J 7.0 Hz total 3H .

Reaction of C26 with 1 2 4 dimethoxyphenyl methanamine was carried out according to the procedure described for synthesis of P3 from C16 in Preparation P3. The product was isolated as a yellow solid by H NMR analysis this material consisted of an approximately 1 1 mixture of diastereomers. Yield 457 mg 0.840 mmol 98 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 12.24 br s and 12.05 br s total 1H 8.28 8.18 m 2H 7.56 7.49 m 1H 7.47 7.40 m 2H 7.21 d J 8.2 Hz and 7.20 d J 8.2 Hz total 1H 6.50 6.42 m 2H 5.75 s and 5.73 s total 1H 4.26 4.19 m 2H 3.85 s 3.84 s 3.81 s and 3.81 s total 6H 3.50 s and 3.49 s total 3H 2.02 s and 1.93 s total 3H 1.61 d J 7.0 Hz and 1.59 d J 7.0 Hz total 3H .

Potassium carbonate 45.1 g 326 mmol was added to a solution of methyl 5 hydroxypyridine 2 carboxylate 20 g 130 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 500 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 0.5 hours. Sodium chloro difluoro acetate 63.7 g 418 mmol was introduced and the resulting mixture was heated at 100 C. for 5 hours whereupon it was partitioned between saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 300 mL and ethyl acetate 300 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 200 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 2 200 mL dried filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Eluent 5 1 petroleum ether ethyl acetate afforded the product as a pale yellow oil. Yield 17 g 84 mmol 65 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.56 s 1H 8.17 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 7.59 br d J 8.7 Hz 1H 6.64 t J 71.9 Hz 1H 4.00 s 3H .

A solution of C27 17 g 84 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 100 mL and water 50 mL was cooled to 0 C. and treated with lithium hydroxide 6.0 g 250 mmol . After the reaction mixture had stirred at room temperature for 2 hours it was acidified to a pH of 3 with 1 M aqueous hydrochloric acid. The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 100 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 100 mL dried filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the product as a white solid. Yield 13 g 69 mmol 82 . LCMS m z 189.8 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.52 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 8.29 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 7.73 dd J 8.6 2.4 Hz 1H 6.68 t J 71.5 Hz 1H .

A mixture of 3 methylpyridine 2 carbonitrile 128 g 1.08 mol and tetrabutylammonium nitrate 363 g 1.19 mol in tert butyl methyl ether 1.3 L was cooled to 4 C. Trifluoroacetic anhydride 171 mL 1.21 mol was added and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 60 hours. It was then adjusted to a pH of approximately 7 by addition of 20 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution and extracted with dichloromethane 3 1 L . The combined organic layers were dried filtered and concentrated in vacuo purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 10 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether afforded the product as a yellow solid. Yield 70 g 0.43 mmol 40 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.36 9.31 m 1H 8.52 8.47 m 1H 2.74 s 3H .

To a solution of C28 40.0 g 245 mmol in ethanol 630 mL and water 70 mL was added calcium chloride 13.6 g 123 mmol followed by iron powder 123 g 2.20 mol and the reaction mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature. After filtration of the reaction mixture the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and the residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel Gradient 10 to 50 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether . The product was obtained as a yellow solid. Yield 20.0 g 150 mmol 61 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.94 d J 2.5 Hz 1H 6.81 d J 2.5 Hz 1H 4.19 4.07 br s 2H 2.45 s 3H .

Sodium nitrite 1.6 M aqueous solution containing 10.3 g of sodium nitrite 149 mmol was slowly added to a 0 C. solution of C29 18.0 g 135 mmol in water 243 mL and concentrated sulfuric acid 67.5 mL . The reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and then stirred at 100 C. for 3 hours whereupon it was cooled and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 75 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water 2 75 mL and with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 2 75 mL dried filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the product as a yellow solid. Yield 16 g 120 mmol 89 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.07 br s 1H 8.08 d J 2.6 Hz 1H 7.20 d J 2.3 Hz 1H 2.40 s 3H .

A mixture of C30 5.70 g 42.5 mmol sodium chlorodifluoroacetate 13.0 g 85.3 mmol and potassium carbonate 17.6 g 127 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 175 mL was stirred for 30 minutes at 100 C. The reaction mixture was then diluted with ethyl acetate 400 mL and sequentially washed with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 3 200 mL and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 3 200 mL . The combined aqueous layers were extracted with ethyl acetate 200 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 5 to 15 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether provided the product as a colorless oil. Yield 3.9 g 21 mmol 49 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.39 br d J 2.1 Hz 1H 7.47 7.43 m 1H 6.64 t J 71.5 Hz 1H 2.59 s 3H .

Aqueous sodium hydroxide solution 1 M 124 mL 124 mmol was added to a solution of C31 7.60 g 41.3 mmol in ethanol 200 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred for 16 hours at 70 C. It was then diluted with tert butyl methyl ether 200 mL and extracted with water 2 100 mL . The combined aqueous layers were washed with tert butyl methyl ether 100 mL acidified to pH 2 with 1 M aqueous hydrochloric acid and extracted with tert butyl methyl ether 2 200 mL . The combined organic extracts were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford the product as a white solid. Yield 6.6 g 32 mmol 77 . LCMS m z 203.7 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.32 br d J 2.1 Hz 1H 7.62 7.58 m 1H 7.06 t J 72.7 Hz 1H 2.64 s 3H .

To a 0 C. solution of 5 6 dichloropyridin 3 amine 15 g 92 mmol in tetrafluoroboric acid 45 in water 150 mL was added a solution of sodium nitrite 6.67 g 96.6 mmol in water 90 mL in a drop wise manner during which time the diazonium salt precipitated. After completion of the addition the reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 hour. It was then filtered the filter cake was washed with petroleum ether 3 200 mL to afford the product 25.8 g as a pale red solid. This material was used directly in the next step.

A solution of C32 from the previous step 25.8 g 92 mmol was dissolved in acetic anhydride 75 mL and slowly warmed to 70 C. When nitrogen evolution had ceased stirring was continued for 1 hour at 70 C. whereupon the solvent was evaporated. The residue was dissolved in tert butyl methyl ether 100 mL and washed with water 4 40 mL . The combined aqueous layers were extracted with additional tert butyl methyl ether 3 50 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 5 20 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 25 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether afforded the product as a yellow oil. Yield 9.7 g 47 mmol 51 over 2 steps. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.33 d J 2.5 Hz 1H 8.18 d J 2.5 Hz 1H 2.32 s 3H .

Zinc cyanide 2.6 g 22 mmol zinc dust 145 mg 2.21 mmol and 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 1.72 g 2.35 mmol were added to a room temperature solution of C33 9.7 g 47 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 60 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at 140 C. for 13 hours whereupon it was diluted with tert butyl methyl ether 200 mL and water 150 mL and filtered through a pad of diatomaceous earth. The aqueous layer of the filtrate was extracted with additional tert butyl methyl ether 3 50 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 8 50 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to provide the product as a brown solid. Yield 6.8 g 44 mmol 94 . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.16 d J 2.5 Hz 1H 7.38 d J 2.5 Hz 1H .

A mixture of C34 6.8 g 44 mmol sodium chloro difluoro acetate 20 g 180 mmol and potassium carbonate 36.5 g 264 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 70 mL was stirred at 100 C. for 40 minutes until no gas evolution could be seen . The reaction mixture was diluted with tert butyl methyl ether 200 mL and water 150 mL and the aqueous layer was extracted with additional tert butyl methyl ether 3 100 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 8 50 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 20 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether afforded the product as a yellow oil. Yield 5.55 g 27.1 mmol 62 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.52 8.45 m 1H 7.73 7.65 m 1H 6.68 t J 70.8 Hz 1H .

Compound C35 4.82 g 23.6 mmol was dissolved in a solution of hydrogen chloride in methanol 4 M 75 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at 60 C. for 13 hours. It was then diluted with water 50 mL and stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. The mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residual aqueous phase was neutralized via addition of saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 200 mL and then extracted with ethyl acetate 3 60 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 30 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting material was combined with the crude product from a similar reaction carried out using C35 500 mg 2.4 mmol and the mixture was subjected to silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 20 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether providing the product as a yellow oil which solidified upon standing at room temperature. Yield 3.4 g 14 mmol 54 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.50 8.43 m 1H 7.68 7.62 m 1H 6.64 t J 71.3 Hz 1H 4.02 s 3H .

Lithium hydroxide monohydrate 279 mg 6.31 mmol was added to a solution of C36 1.0 g 4.2 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 40 mL and water 20 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours whereupon it was concentrated in vacuo and the residual aqueous phase was adjusted to a pH of 2 3 via addition of 2 M aqueous hydrochloric acid. The resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 7 20 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the product as a pale yellow solid. Yield 720 mg 3.22 mmol 77 . LCMS m z 222.0 M H chlorine isotope pattern observed . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.51 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 8.06 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.44 t J 72.8 Hz 1H .

A solution of dichloroacetonitrile 215 g 1.96 mol in methanol 200 mL was added drop wise to a 5 C. solution of sodium methoxide 15.4 g 0.285 mol in methanol 500 mL . A solution of methyl 2 amino 3 hydroxypropanoate hydrochloride salt 382 g 2.45 mol in methanol 300 mL was then added to the 5 C. reaction mixture which was subsequently allowed to stir at room temperature for 16 hours. Dichloromethane 1 L and water 800 mL were added and the aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 1 L the combined organic layers were concentrated in vacuo to provide the product as a yellow oil which was used in the next step without further purification. Yield 300 g 1.4 mol 71 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 6.29 s 1H 4.90 dd J 10.8 8.3 Hz 1H 4.74 dd J 8.8 8.3 Hz 1H 4.66 dd J 10.8 8.9 Hz 1H 3.82 s 3H .

A solution of C37 205 g 0.967 mol in methanol 700 mL was added drop wise to a cooled solution of sodium methoxide 52.2 g 0.966 mol in methanol 300 mL at a rate sufficient to maintain the reaction temperature below 10 C. The reaction mixture was then stirred at room temperature for 16 hours whereupon it was diluted with dichloromethane 1 L and water 800 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 2 500 mL and the combined organic layers were concentrated in vacuo to afford the product as a yellow oil. This material was used in the next step without additional purification. Yield 200 g 0.96 mol 99 .

 7 7 Dimethyl 2 oxobicyclo 2.2.1 hept 1 yl methanesulfonic acid camphor sulfonic acid 45.9 g 0.198 mol was added to a solution of C38 193 g 0.930 mol in toluene 700 mL and the reaction mixture was heated at 70 C. for 1 hour. Water 1 L was added and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 1 L the combined organic layers were sequentially washed with aqueous potassium carbonate solution 10 500 mL water 800 mL and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 0.8 L dried and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 5 to 25 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether provided the product as a white solid. Yield 55 g 0.31 mol 33 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.26 s 1H 4.65 s 2H 3.93 s 3H .

To a suspension of C39 40 g 0.23 mol in acetonitrile 1 L was added tetrabutylammonium fluoride 357 g 1.36 mol and the reaction mixture was stirred at 25 C. for 16 hours. After removal of solvent in vacuo the residue was diluted with water 1 L and extracted with ethyl acetate 4 1 L . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 17 to 23 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether afforded the product as a yellow solid. Yield 8.7 g 55 mmol 24 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.31 d J 1.2 Hz 1H 5.43 d J 47.2 Hz 2H 3.94 s 3H .

To a solution of C40 18 g 110 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 150 mL was added a solution of lithium hydroxide 5.42 g 226 mmol in a mixture of methanol and water 1 1 500 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour whereupon it was concentrated in vacuo. After the residue had been dissolved in water 500 mL it was acidified by addition of 2 M aqueous hydrochloric acid until it reached a pH of 2. The aqueous layer was then extracted with ethyl acetate 2 100 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure providing the product as a yellow solid. Yield 13 g 90 mmol 82 . LCMS m z 144.0 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.61 s 1H 5.47 d J 47 Hz 2H .

To a 0 C. solution of but 2 yn 1 ol 0.645 mL 8.62 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 30 mL were added methyl 5 hydroxypyridine 2 carboxylate 1.30 g 8.49 mmol triphenylphosphine 3.34 g 12.7 mmol and diisopropyl azodicarboxylate 2.50 mL 12.7 mmol . The reaction mixture was then warmed to room temperature 18 C. and stirred for 48 hours whereupon it was concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 15 to 50 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether afforded the product as a yellow solid. Yield 1.1 g 5.4 mmol 64 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.46 d J 2.9 Hz 1H 8.13 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 7.37 dd J 8.8 2.9 Hz 1H 4.77 q J 2.3 Hz 2H 3.99 s 3H 1.86 t J 2.3 Hz 3H .

A solution of lithium hydroxide monohydrate 975 mg 23.2 mmol in water 7 mL was added drop wise to a room temperature 15 C. solution of C41 1.59 g 7.75 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 20 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. It was then acidified to pH 2 via addition of 2 M aqueous hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 100 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 2 100 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the product as a yellow solid. Yield 1.0 g 5.2 mmol 67 . LCMS m z 192.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.35 d J 2.9 Hz 1H 8.14 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 7.57 dd J 8.7 2.8 Hz 1H 4.87 q J 2.3 Hz 2H 1.84 t J 2.3 Hz 3H .

Triethylamine 36.4 L 0.261 mmol and O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate HATU 72.9 mg 0.192 mmol were added to a solution of P1 100 mg 0.266 mmol and P6 36.3 mg 0.192 mmol in dichloromethane 3.5 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. After being diluted with dichloromethane it was washed sequentially with water and with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 50 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 88.7 mg 0.162 mmol 84 . LCMS m z 547.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.56 dd J 2.7 0.4 Hz 1H 8.27 dd J 8.7 0.5 Hz 1H 7.81 br dd J 8.7 2.7 Hz 1H 7.78 s 1H 7.08 t J 72.6 Hz 1H 4.58 d J 13.9 Hz 1H 4.17 d J 14.0 Hz 1H 3.19 s 3H 1.92 s 3H 1.52 s 9H .

A solution of C42 88.7 mg 0.162 mmol in dichloromethane 2.7 mL was treated with trifluoroacetic acid 0.249 mL 3.23 mmol and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. It was then diluted with dichloromethane washed sequentially with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Purification via chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 10 methanol in dichloromethane provided the product as a white solid. Yield 67 mg 0.15 mmol 93 . LCMS m z 447.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.56 br dd J 2.7 0.5 Hz 1H 8.27 dd J 8.7 0.6 Hz 1H 7.81 ddt J 8.6 2.7 0.6 Hz 1H 7.64 s 1H 7.08 t J 72.6 Hz 1H 4.16 d J 13.8 Hz 1H 3.76 d J 13.8 Hz 1H 3.19 s 3H 1.70 s 3H .

A mixture of P2 50 mg 0.13 mmol and 1 difluoromethyl 1H pyrazole 3 carboxylic acid 25.6 mg 0.158 mmol in ethyl acetate 1 mL was cooled to 0 C. Triethylamine 73 L 0.52 mmol and 2 4 6 tripropyl 1 3 5 2 4 6 trioxatriphosphinane 2 4 6 trioxide 50 solution in ethyl acetate 157 L 0.264 mmol were added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 2.5 hours at 0 C. It was then partitioned between saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 7 mL and ethyl acetate 7 mL the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 7 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as an off white solid. Yield 25.8 mg 49.3 mol 38 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 12.52 12.26 br s 1H 9.39 br s 1H 8.25 br d J 8.2 Hz 2H 7.91 d J 2.6 Hz 1H 7.74 s 1H 7.56 br dd J 7 7 Hz 1H 7.46 br dd J 7.6 7.5 Hz 2H 7.23 t J 60.4 Hz 1H 7.08 d J 2 Hz 1H 4.44 d J 13.8 Hz 1H 3.75 d J 13.8 Hz 1H 3.48 s 3H 2.00 s 3H .

A suspension of C43 25.8 mg 49.3 mol and 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene 2 drops in methanol 1 mL was heated to 60 C. overnight whereupon it was allowed to cool to room temperature and was concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 40 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 10.6 mg 25.3 mol 51 . LCMS m z 420.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.34 br s 1H 7.90 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 7.65 s 1H 7.23 t J 60.5 Hz 1H 7.07 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 4.12 d J 14.0 Hz 1H 3.71 d J 14.0 Hz 1H 3.31 s 3H 1.81 s 3H .

Trifluoroacetic acid 0.7 mL was added in a drop wise manner to a 0 C. solution of P3 0.288 g 0.506 mmol in dichloromethane 5 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 hour whereupon it was partitioned between dichloromethane 100 mL and saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 200 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 2 50 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to provide the product as an orange solid 0.25 g . This material was taken directly to the following step. LCMS showed two close running peaks of similar size both with m z 420.4 M H .

A solution of C44 from the previous step 0.25 g 0.506 mmol and P6 0.135 g 0.714 mmol in ethyl acetate 5 mL was cooled to 0 C. and treated with triethylamine 0.332 mL 2.38 mmol . 2 4 6 Tripropyl 1 3 5 2 4 6 trioxatriphosphinane 2 4 6 trioxide 50 solution in ethyl acetate 0.709 mL 1.19 mmol was added and stirring was continued for 2 hours at 0 C. LCMS analysis at this point revealed two close running peaks in an approximately 1 1 ratio both with m z 591.3 M H . Saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 50 mL was added and the resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 50 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo the residue was adsorbed onto silica gel as a solution in dichloromethane and subjected to silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane . The product was isolated as a white solid which by H NMR analysis consisted of an approximately 1 1 mixture of diastereomers. Yield 232 mg 0.393 mmol 78 over 2 steps. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 10.43 br s and 10.40 br s total 1H 8.50 br d J 2.6 Hz and 8.47 br d J 2.4 Hz total 1H 8.34 8.30 m 1H 8.28 8.20 m 2H 7.84 s and 7.83 s total 1H 7.70 7.66 m 1H 7.58 7.51 m 1H 7.49 7.42 m 2H 6.66 t J 71.9 Hz and 6.65 t J 71.8 Hz total 1H 3.56 d J 10.9 Hz and 2.98 d J 10.9 Hz total 1H 3.52 s and 3.48 s total 3H 2.13 s and 2.09 s total 3H .

To a solution of C45 232 mg 0.393 mmol in methanol 10 mL was added 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene 59.3 L 0.396 mmol and the reaction mixture was heated to 60 C. for 16 hours. Solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was adsorbed onto silica gel as a solution in dichloromethane silica gel chromatography Gradient 20 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the products 138 mg 0.284 mmol 72 yield . The mixed fractions from the column 115 mg 0.236 mmol were subjected to supercritical fluid chromatography Column Phenomenex Lux Cellulose 2 5 m Mobile phase A carbon dioxide Mobile phase B 1 1 acetonitrile methanol Gradient 5 to 60 B to separate the individual enantiomers and diastereomers. Each of the three samples isolated was then individually chromatographed on silica gel Gradient 0 to 10 methanol in dichloromethane to afford the following all of which were obtained as white solids.

The first eluting isomer from the supercritical fluid chromatography provided 3. Yield 7.4 mg 15 mol 4 . LCMS m z 487.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.38 br s 1H 8.47 br s 1H 8.31 d J 8.6 Hz 1H 7.71 s 1H 7.67 br d J 8.6 Hz 1H 6.65 t J 72.1 Hz 1H 3.37 d J 11.0 Hz 1H 3.29 s 3H 1.85 s 3H 1.10 0.99 m 1H 0.95 0.69 m 3H 0.27 0.18 m 1H .

The second eluting isomer from the supercritical fluid chromatography provided 4. Yield 39.9 mg 82.0 mol 21 . LCMS m z 487.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.38 br s 1H 8.47 br d J 2.4 Hz 1H 8.31 br d J 8.6 Hz 1H 7.73 s 1H 7.67 br dd J 8.6 2.7 Hz 1H 6.65 t J 72.0 1H 3.45 d J 10.8 Hz 1H 3.31 s 3H 1.91 s 3H 1.12 1.00 m 1H 0.96 0.85 m 1H 0.85 0.72 m 2H 0.29 0.19 m 1H .

The third eluting isomer from the supercritical fluid chromatography was obtained in a quantity too small to characterize.

The fourth eluting isomer from the supercritical fluid chromatography provided 5. Yield 20.2 mg 41.5 mol 11 . LCMS m z 487.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.38 br s 1H 8.49 br d J 2.3 Hz 1H 8.32 br d J 8.6 Hz 1H 7.74 s 1H 7.68 br dd J 8.6 2.7 Hz 1H 6.65 t J 72.0 Hz 1H 3.29 s 3H 2.91 d J 10.9 Hz 1H 1.92 s 3H 1.36 1.23 m 1H 0.85 0.69 m 2H 0.62 0.52 m 1H 0.30 0.21 m 1H .

The indicated relative and absolute stereochemistries for these compounds were assigned on the basis of NMR work and biological activity. From the H NMR spectra 3 and 4 are enantiomers of one another. NOE studies revealed that irradiation of the quaternary methyl group of both 3 and 4 resulted in enhancement of the methine proton of the cyclopropyl group while irradiation of the methine adjacent to the sulfonyl group in 5 provided a substantial enhancement in the signal for the quaternary methyl group these results established the relative stereochemistry of the cyclopropyl and methyl groups. The potency difference between 3 and 4 in relation to the potency of 9 see Table 7 indicated that 4 has the same absolute stereochemistry at the quaternary center as does 9 see X ray structure determination on 9 below .

Conversion of P4 to C46 was carried out using the method described for synthesis of C44 from P3 in Examples 3 4 and 5. The product was obtained as an orange solid which was used directly in the following step. LCMS m z 408.2 M H .

Reaction of C46 with P6 was effected using the procedure described for synthesis of C45 from C44 in Examples 3 4 and 5. The product was isolated as a white solid. Yield 80 mg 0.14 mmol 58 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 12.45 br s 1H 10.44 br s 1H 8.51 br d J 2.6 Hz 1H 8.33 dd J 8.6 0.6 Hz 1H 8.29 8.25 m 2H 7.83 s 1H 7.69 br dd J 8.7 2.7 Hz 1H 7.57 7.52 m 1H 7.49 7.43 m 2H 6.66 t J 71.9 Hz 1H 3.54 s 3H 2.07 s 3H 1.85 s 3H 1.52 s 3H .

1 8 Diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene 20.9 L 0.140 mmol was added to a solution of C47 80 mg 0.14 mmol in methanol 5 mL . The reaction mixture was heated to 60 C. for 10 hours whereupon it was concentrated in vacuo and adsorbed onto silica gel as a solution in dichloromethane. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 20 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a white solid. Yield 57 mg 0.12 mmol 86 . LCMS m z 475.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.36 br s 1H 8.50 br d J 2.7 Hz 1H 8.32 dd J 8.6 0.6 Hz 1H 7.69 s 1H 7.68 br dd J 8.6 2.6 Hz 1H 6.66 t J 72.0 Hz 1H 4.22 4.07 br s 2H 3.29 s 3H 1.95 s 3H 1.85 s 3H 1.17 s 3H .

Separation of 6 57 mg into its component enantiomers was effected via supercritical fluid chromatography Column Phenomenex Lux Cellulose 2 5 m Mobile phase A carbon dioxide Mobile phase B 1 1 acetonitrile methanol Gradient 5 to 60 B . Each enantiomer was then repurified using silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 10 methanol in dichloromethane . The first eluting enantiomer from the supercritical fluid chromatography was obtained as a white solid after silica gel chromatography and was assigned as 7. Yield 6.3 mg 11 for the separation. LCMS m z 475.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.37 br s 1H 8.50 d J 2.6 Hz 1H 8.32 d J 8.6 Hz 1H 7.74 s 1H 7.70 7.66 m 1H 6.66 t J 71.9 Hz 1H 3.35 s 3H 1.92 s 3H 1.90 s 3H 1.27 br s 3H .

The second eluting enantiomer from the supercritical fluid chromatography was also obtained as a white solid after silica gel chromatography and was assigned as 8. Yield 15 mg 26 for the separation. LCMS m z 475.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.36 br s 1H 8.50 s 1H 8.32 d J 8.6 Hz 1H 7.71 s 1H 7.70 7.65 m 1H 6.65 t J 71.9 Hz 1H 3.32 s 3H 1.93 s 3H 1.87 s 3H 1.21 s 3H .

The indicated absolute stereochemistries of 7 and 8 were assigned on the basis of the difference in the biological activity of these two compounds see Table 7 in analogy with the stereochemistries of 3 and 4.

A mixture of P1 31.30 g 83.36 mmol P7 30.5 g 150 mmol O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate 76.1 g 200 mmol and N N diisopropylethylamine 116 mL 666 mmol in dichloromethane 1.7 L was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was then diluted with dichloromethane washed sequentially with aqueous 5 citric acid solution saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a pale yellow solid. Yield 36.57 g 65.23 mmol 78 . LCMS m z 559.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.39 8.37 m 1H 7.74 s 1H 7.60 7.58 m 1H 7.06 t J 72.8 Hz 1H 4.56 d J 13.9 Hz 1H 4.16 d J 14.0 Hz 1H 3.19 s 3H 2.75 s 3H 1.91 br s 3H 1.52 s 9H .

Trifluoroacetic acid 100 mL was added to a solution of C48 36.57 g 65.23 mmol in dichloromethane 1.1 L . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 45 minutes whereupon it was basified by addition of 1 M aqueous sodium hydroxide solution. The aqueous layer was extracted twice with dichloromethane and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 5 methanol in dichloromethane provided an off white solid which was triturated in heptane containing a small amount of diethyl ether for approximately 30 minutes to afford the product as a white solid. Yield 26.08 g 56.64 mmol 87 . LCMS m z 461.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.38 br d J 2.5 Hz 1H 7.60 s 1H 7.58 br d J 2.5 Hz 1H 7.05 t J 72.8 Hz 1H 4.15 d J 13.7 Hz 1H 3.75 d J 13.8 Hz 1H 3.19 s 3H 2.75 s 3H 1.70 s 3H .

A mixture of C49 32.62 g 70.84 mmol in methanol 316 mL was filtered through cotton and then treated with a solution of methanesulfonic acid 4.60 mL 70.9 mmol in methanol 38 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred for 1 hour whereupon it was concentrated on a rotary evaporator until it became a very thick slurry. At this point diethyl ether 400 mL was added and the mixture was stirred for 10 minutes and filtered. The filter cake was thoroughly washed with diethyl ether affording the product as a white solid which was found to be crystalline via powder X ray diffraction. Yield 36.95 g 66.39 mmol 94 . LCMS m z 461.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 10.87 s 1H 10.40 br s 1H 8.70 8.52 br s 2H 8.44 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 7.78 s 1H 7.75 7.73 m 1H 7.45 t J 72.9 Hz 1H 4.66 br AB quartet J 13.9 Hz 81 Hz 2H 3.23 s 3H 2.65 s 3H 2.35 s 3H 1.84 br s 3H . Recrystallization of a sample of 9 from methanol afforded a crystal that was used for X ray crystal structure analysis see below this confirmed the absolute stereochemistry as that drawn.

Data collection was performed on a Bruker APEX diffractometer at room temperature. Data collection consisted of omega and phi scans. Resolution limited to 1.0 angstroms data collection cut short thus data to parameter ratio near 3 1.

The structure was solved by direct methods using SHELX software suite in the space group P222. The structure was subsequently refined by the full matrix least squares method. All non hydrogen atoms were found and refined using anisotropic displacement parameters.

The hydrogen atoms located on nitrogen were found from the Fourier difference map and refined with distances restrained. The remaining hydrogen atoms were placed in calculated positions and were allowed to ride on their carrier atoms. The final refinement included isotropic displacement parameters for all hydrogen atoms.

Analysis of the absolute structure using likelihood methods Hooft 2008 was performed using PLATON Spek 2010 . The results indicate that the absolute structure has been correctly assigned. The method calculates that the probability that the structure is correct is 100.0. The Hooft parameter is reported as 0.023 with an esd of 0.07.

The final R index was 3.0 . A final difference Fourier revealed no missing or misplaced electron density.

Pertinent crystal data collection and refinement information is summarized in Table 1. Atomic coordinates bond lengths bond angles and displacement parameters are listed in Tables 2 5.

Conversion of P5 to C50 was carried out using the procedure described for synthesis of C44 from P3 in Examples 3 4 and 5. The product was isolated as an orange solid which was taken directly to the following step. Analysis of the reaction mixture by LCMS at the conclusion of the experiment revealed two close running products in a 1 1 ratio presumed to be the two diastereomers of C50 with LCMS m z 394.1 and 394.2 M H .

Reaction of C50 with P6 was carried out using the procedure described for synthesis of C45 from C44 in Examples 3 4 and 5. The product was obtained as a white solid which by H NMR analysis consisted of an approximately 1 1 mixture of diastereomers. Yield 207 mg 0.367 mmol 44 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl characteristic peaks 12.34 br s and 12.23 br s total 1H 10.44 br s and 10.43 br s total 1H 8.52 8.47 m 1H 8.34 8.30 m 1H 8.29 8.21 m 2H 7.83 s and 7.83 s total 1H 7.71 7.66 m 1H 7.58 7.51 m 1H 7.49 7.42 m 2H 6.66 t J 71.9 Hz and 6.66 t J 71.9 Hz total 1H 3.52 s 3H 2.05 s and 1.98 s total 3H 1.73 d J 7.1 Hz and 1.65 d J 7.0 Hz total 3H .

Conversion of C51 to a mixture of the products was carried out according to the method described for conversion of C45 to a mixture of 3 4 and 5 in Examples 3 4 and 5. The product mixture was isolated as a white solid 120 mg 0.260 mmol 73 this material was separated into its component isomers via supercritical fluid chromatography Column Phenomenex Lux Cellulose 2 5 m Mobile phase 3 1 carbon dioxide 1 1 acetonitrile methanol . Each isomer was then subjected individually to chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 10 methanol in dichloromethane to afford the four products each as a white solid.

The first eluting isomer from the supercritical fluid chromatography provided 10. Yield 13.5 mg 29.3 mol 8 . LCMS m z 461.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.38 br s 1H 8.48 dd J 2.6 0.6 Hz 1H 8.31 dd J 8.6 0.6 Hz 1H 7.71 s 1H 7.67 br dd J 8.6 2.7 Hz 1H 6.65 t J 72.0 Hz 1H 3.93 q J 7.1 Hz 1H 3.29 s 3H 1.72 s 3H 1.68 d J 7.0 Hz 3H .

The second eluting isomer from the supercritical fluid chromatography provided 11. Yield 39.5 mg 85.8 mol 24 . LCMS m z 461.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.38 br s 1H 8.48 br d J 2.6 Hz 1H 8.31 dd J 8.6 0.6 Hz 1H 7.71 s 1H 7.67 br dd J 8.6 2.6 Hz 1H 6.65 t J 72.0 Hz 1H 3.93 q J 7.0 Hz 1H 3.29 s 3H 1.72 s 3H 1.68 d J 7.0 Hz 3H .

The third eluting isomer from the supercritical fluid chromatography provided 12. Yield 12.5 mg 27.1 mol 8 . LCMS m z 461.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.39 br s 1H 8.49 dd J 2.7 0.5 Hz 1H 8.31 dd J 8.6 0.6 Hz 1H 7.69 s 1H 7.68 ddt J 8.6 2.6 0.7 Hz 1H 6.65 t J 71.9 Hz 1H 3.83 q J 7.0 Hz 1H 3.29 s 3H 1.88 s 3H 1.25 d J 7.0 Hz 3H .

The fourth eluting isomer from the supercritical fluid chromatography provided 13. Yield 7.7 mg 16.7 mol 5 . LCMS m z 461.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.39 br s 1H 8.49 dd J 2.7 0.5 Hz 1H 8.32 dd J 8.6 0.6 Hz 1H 7.71 s 1H 7.68 br dd J 8.6 2.7 Hz 1H 6.66 t J 72.0 Hz 1H 3.84 q J 7.0 Hz 1H 3.31 s 3H 1.90 s 3H 1.31 d J 7.0 Hz 3H .

The indicated relative and absolute stereochemistries were assigned on the basis of NMR work and biological activity. From the H NMR spectra 10 and 11 are enantiomers of one another 12 and 13 are also enantiomers of one another. NOE studies revealed that irradiation of the methine adjacent to the sulfonyl group results in an enhancement of the quaternary methyl group signal for both 12 and 13 but similar irradiation has no effect on the quaternary methyl group resonance in 10 and 11. This established the relative stereochemistry of the vicinal methyl groups. Examination of the biological activity of these four compounds see Table 7 allowed assignment of the absolute stereochemistry in accordance with Examples 3 and 4.

Trifluoroacetic acid 0.38 mL 4.9 mmol was added in a drop wise manner to a 0 C. solution of C52 N 5 4 2 4 dimethoxybenzyl amino 1 3 thiazol 2 yl 6 ethyl 2 5 dimethyl 1 1 dioxido 5 6 dihydro 2H 1 2 4 thiadiazin 3 yl benzamide this material was prepared in analogous fashion to P3 by utilizing propane 1 sulfonyl chloride in place of cyclopropylmethanesulfonyl chloride 140 mg 0.251 mmol in dichloromethane 4 mL The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 hour. Analysis of the reaction mixture by LCMS at the end of the reaction indicated a major peak consistent with the molecular weight of the product LCMS m z 408.3 M H . The reaction mixture was diluted with additional dichloromethane and saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution. The aqueous layer was extracted twice with dichloromethane and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the product as an orange solid 100 mg . This material was used directly in the following step.

Reaction of C53 from the previous step 100 mg 0.245 mmol with P6 to provide the product was effected using the method described for synthesis of C43 from P2 in Example 2. In this case no chromatographic purification was carried out the product was isolated as a yellow solid 130 mg which was used directly in the following step.

1 8 Diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene 33.9 L 0.227 mmol was added to a solution of C54 130 mg 0.225 mmol in methanol 2.2 mL . The reaction mixture was heated to 60 C. for 16 hours whereupon it was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in dichloromethane 10 mL and adsorbed on silica gel chromatography on silica gel Gradient 20 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane provided a mixture of the products 45 mg 95 mol 38 over 3 steps . This material was separated into its four component isomers using supercritical fluid chromatography Column Phenomenex Lux Cellulose 2 5 m Mobile phase 45 55 carbon dioxide methanol containing 0.2 ammonium hydroxide . In order of elution 

14 Yield 6.2 mg 14 for the separation. LCMS m z 475.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.41 br s 1H 8.50 dd J 2.7 0.5 Hz 1H 8.32 dd J 8.6 0.5 Hz 1H 7.79 s 1H 7.68 br dd J 8.6 2.6 Hz 1H 6.66 t J 71.9 Hz 1H 3.83 3.76 m 1H 3.33 s 3H 2.23 2.12 m 2H 1.83 s 3H 1.17 t J 7.5 Hz 3H .

15 Yield 17.5 mg 39 for the separation. LCMS m z 475.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.40 br s 1H 8.50 d J 2.3 Hz 1H 8.32 d J 8.6 Hz 1H 7.78 s 1H 7.68 br dd J 8.6 2.6 Hz 1H 6.66 t J 71.9 Hz 1H 3.78 3.71 m 1H 3.32 s 3H 2.28 2.11 m 2H 1.81 s 3H 1.17 t J 7.4 Hz 3H .

16 Yield 1.2 mg 3 for the separation. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.39 br s 1H 8.50 dd J 2.7 0.5 Hz 1H 8.32 dd J 8.6 0.6 Hz 1H 7.74 s 1H 7.68 br dd J 8.6 2.7 Hz 1H 6.66 t J 71.9 Hz 1H 3.63 dd J 7.7 3.2 Hz 1H 3.31 s 3H 2.02 1.9 m 2H 1.89 s 3H 1.12 t J 7.5 Hz 3H .

17 Yield 9.4 mg 21 for the separation. LCMS m z 475.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.39 br s 1H 8.50 br d J 2.5 Hz 1H 8.32 dd J 8.6 0.5 Hz 1H 7.75 s 1H 7.68 br dd J 8.7 2.7 Hz 1H 6.66 t J 71.9 Hz 1H 3.62 dd J 7.8 3.4 Hz 1H 3.30 s 3H 2.09 1.9 m 2H 1.89 s 3H 1.14 t J 7.3 Hz 3H .

The indicated relative and absolute stereochemistries were assigned on the basis of NMR work and biological activity. From the H NMR spectra 14 and 15 are enantiomers of one another 16 and 17 are also enantiomers of one another. NOE studies revealed that irradiation of the methine adjacent to the sulfonyl group results in an enhancement of the quaternary methyl group signal for both 16 and 17 but has no effect on that resonance in 15. This established the relative stereochemistry of the vicinal methyl and ethyl groups. Examination of the biological activity of these four compounds see Table 7 allowed assignment of the absolute stereochemistries in accordance with Examples 3 and 4.

1. Methyl 5 chloropyrazine 2 carboxylate was reacted with cesium carbonate and 2 2 difluoropropan 1 ol to provide methyl 5 2 2 difluoropropoxy pyrazine 2 carboxylate ester hydrolysis was effected with lithium hydroxide to afford the requisite 5 2 2 difluoropropoxy pyrazine 2 carboxylic acid.

2. In this case 2 4 6 tripropyl 1 3 5 2 4 6 trioxatriphosphinane 2 4 6 trioxide was used in place of O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate.

3. Reaction of methyl 5 chloropyrazine 2 carboxylate with but 2 yn 1 ol and potassium tert butoxide followed by ester hydrolysis with lithium hydroxide afforded the requisite 5 but 2 yn 1 yloxy pyrazine 2 carboxylic acid.

Beta secretase BACE is one of the enzymes involved in the generation of the amyloid beta peptide found in the amyloid plaques of Alzheimer s disease patients. This assay measures the inhibition of the beta secretase enzyme as it cleaves a non native peptide.

A synthetic APP substrate that can be cleaved by beta secretase having N terminal biotin and made fluorescent by the covalent attachment of Oregon Green at the Cys residue is used to assay beta secretase activity in the presence or absence of the inhibitory compounds. The substrate is Biotin GLTNIKTEEISEISY EVEFR C Oregon Green KK OH. The BACE1 enzyme is affinity purified material from conditioned media of CHO K1 cells that have been transfected with a soluble BACE construct BACE1deltaTM96His . Compounds are incubated in a log dose response curve from a top concentration of 100 M with BACE1 enzyme and the biotinylated fluorescent peptide in 384 well black plates Thermo Scientific 4318 . BACE1 is at a final concentration of 0.1 nM with a final concentration of peptide substrate of 150 nM in a reaction volume of 30 L assay buffer 100 mM sodium acetate pH 4.5 brought to pH with acetic acid and 0.001 Tween 20 . Plates are covered and incubated for 3 hours at 37 C. The reaction is stopped with the addition of 30 L of 1.5 M Streptavidin Pierce 21125 . After a 10 minute incubation at room temperature plates are read on a PerkinElmer EnVision for fluorescence polarization Ex485 nm Em530 nm . The activity of the beta secretase enzyme is detected by changes in the fluorescence polarization that occur when the substrate is cleaved by the enzyme. Incubation in the presence of compound inhibitor demonstrates specific inhibition of beta secretase enzymatic cleavage of the synthetic APP substrate.

