---

title: Informational traffic light system that provides traffic light specific incentive information based on traffic light timing
abstract: A system receives data describing a light state of a traffic light and timing status of the traffic light. The light states include a first state indicating the traffic light is displaying a stop signal, and a second state indicating the traffic light is not displaying a stop signal. The timing status describes the time remaining of current state to transition to another state. The system determines, based on the state of the traffic light and the timing status, one of a plurality of messages on the display device. The messages include a first message to shut off an engine.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09520060&OS=09520060&RS=09520060
owner: 
number: 09520060
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20160520
---
This application is a continuation application of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 608 763 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 349 289 titled INFORMATIONAL TRAFFIC LIGHT SYSTEM THAT PROVIDES TRAFFIC LIGHT SPECIFIC INCENTIVE INFORMATION BASED ON TRAFFIC LIGHT TIMING filed on Jan. 29 2015. The disclosure of the foregoing application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Idling motor vehicles release a great amount of unnecessary pollutants including carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide. According to studies every ten minutes of idling a vehicle can cost over one cup of wasted fuel which leads to wasted money and unnecessary pollution . Studies also show that idling a vehicle for more than thirty seconds can lead to unnecessary pollution and costs associated with burning fuel while remaining in idle. A motorist would save gas and money and limit their pollutant emissions by turning their vehicle off when they will be idle for more than thirty seconds.

Most of the idling of vehicles occurs at traffic lights. In many circumstances motorists may not know how long they will be sitting in one location at a traffic light therefore the motorist may not turn off their vehicle.

In general one innovative aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in a system including a display device a communication subsystem and a data processing apparatus in data communication with the display device and the communication subsystem. The data processing apparatus being configured to perform the operations including receiving data describing a light state of a traffic light and timing status of the traffic light wherein the light states include a first state indicating the traffic light is displaying a stop signal and a second state indicating the traffic light is not displaying a stop signal and the timing status describes the time remaining of current state to transition to another state and determining based on the state of the traffic light and the timing status one of a plurality of messages to display on the display device wherein the messages include a first message to shut off an engine.

Particular implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented so as to realize one or more of the following advantages. Light state and timing data may be specific to traffic patterns and corresponding messages may thus be tailored to particular traffic lights. Drivers are thus more likely to notice the difference in the messages e.g. especially for longer lights and thereby be more likely to respond to the messages. This in turn leads to reductions in wasted fuel and pollution and results in both personal and societal cost savings. In some implementations the timing data may be learned and thus the system need not be programmed specifically for each traffic light. Thus deployment costs are reduced.

The details of one or more embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

Additionally in some implementations traffic information display device may communicate with traffic lights and via connections and respectively. However in some implementations traffic information display device may communicate with one or more traffic light via one connection or through communication network . Also in some implementations traffic information display device may communicate with traffic light and via connection and respectively. However in some implementations traffic information display device may communicate with one or more traffic light via one or more connections or through communication network . Moreover in some implementations monitoring office may communicate with monitoring office via connection . However in some implementations monitoring office may communicate with monitoring office through communication network . Monitoring offices and may be in one space or in multiple spaces. For example monitoring offices and may be in a single office building in separate office buildings in one or more remote location e.g. individuals working from their own location or remotely among others.

Typically a display device is associated with one traffic light and positioned such that a driver can see both the display device and the traffic light e.g. the display device is positioned next to the traffic light. However a display device may receive data from more than one traffic light which is used to determine an appropriate message to display as will be described in more detail below.

Traffic information display device may be of dimension of 12 15 inches in height 36 48 inches in width and 1 3 inches in depth. However such dimensions are not meant to be limiting and other dimensions may be used. In some implementations components of the display area may include flashing areas and components.

Power supply may include an electrical connection a solar battery a lithium battery lithium ion battery among other types of power supply known in the art.

Conditions portion may include indications of past current or future conditions e.g. weather conditions the current time a current temperature among others.

Instructions portion may display instruction messages or other information to be presented to vehicle drivers. For example each traffic light e.g. within the system may include its own traffic information display device but in some implementations two or more traffic lights may use one traffic information display device . Instruction messages provided may include instructions as to when motorists should turn on and turn off their vehicles. For example the instructions may be SHUT OFF engine when the corresponding traffic light is red and when a cross traffic light turns yellow or otherwise a predefined time before the corresponding traffic light turns green instructions may be RESTART or TURN ON engine. Additionally in some implementations instructions may include an emergency message e.g. Amber Alerts weather conditions traffic conditions or an emergency number to contact these instructions may be provided during any traffic light status . Also other information may be provided in the instructions portion including advertisements news or other types of information.

Further instructions portion may also include incentives for motorists to turn off their vehicles when instructed e.g. traffic lights red status . Incentives may notify motorists of positive and or negative information pertaining to idling the motorist s vehicle. For example an incentive message may notify motorists that if they follow the TURN OFF VEHICLE and RESTART VEHICLE instructions a motorists would 1 save a certain number of dollars in fuel cost over a period of time e.g. one year 2 save a certain number of gallons of fuel over a period of time e.g. one year and or 3 reduce the motorist s carbon dioxide deposit into the atmosphere over a period of time.

Further in some implementations an incentive message is based on traffic pattern statistics specific to the traffic light for which the data processing apparatus receives data describing the light state. As such the incentive information provided in the display area at one traffic light may be different from the incentive information provided at another light and the information may also vary depending on the time of day. For example if traffic light A has a light state of red for an average of one minute the incentive information may also take into account the time of day then the incentive may calculate the gallons of gas saved over a period of one year using the one minute red light status of traffic light A. However if traffic light B only has a light status of red for an average of forty seconds then the display device associated with traffic light B may calculate the gallons of gas saved over a period of one year using the forty second red light status of traffic light B.

Additionally incentives may be for example references or citations to any type of ordinance law proposed law or regulation in the area or jurisdiction e.g. county city state that pertains to and or requires motorists to not allow their vehicle to idle more than a certain period of time e.g. no more than five consecutive minutes or otherwise require motorists to follow instructions provided on the traffic information display device . Also in some implementations incentives may be information and or statistics related to harmful environmental and or health effects contributed to by idling motor vehicles and or information related to a motorist not following the notifications in the information section e.g. the turn off and restart vehicle instructions . For example incentives may be presented that provide motorists with 1 a certain number of dollars in added fuel cost over a period of time if the idling notifications are not followed e.g. one year 2 a certain number of added gallons of fuel over a period of time if the idling notifications are not followed e.g. one year and or 3 an addition to the motorist s carbon dioxide deposit into the atmosphere over a period of time if the idling notifications are not followed. However the examples above are not meant to limit the incentives that may be shown and any type of information that may be incentivizing for motorists to stop their vehicle from idling at traffic lights or other locations may be included.

Timing portion may include an indicator that counts to a traffic light status change e.g. count down by seconds to zero and or a time when the instruction in the instruction portion will change e.g. a predetermined time before the corresponding traffic light will change . In some implementations timing portion is not required and in some implementations timing portion is part of the instructions portion of the display area . The control portion includes a connection to one or more traffic light via a wired or wireless connection and or one or more other component of the traffic light system to sync the traffic light status with the timing portion and other components of the traffic information display device .

Observation component may include one or more sensor or component to observe current setting and information within the vicinity of the traffic information display device and or one or more traffic light e.g. traffic light . For example observation component may include one or more exhaust monitor and or one or more camera. Each of the one or more components may be connected to or located next to or away from the traffic information display device . Each of the one or more components may be configured to communicate directly or indirectly with traffic information display device and one or more of the monitoring offices and . For one or more cameras in some implementations an individual associated with one or more monitoring office and may be able to view the content the one or more cameras are capturing. If the individual associated with the one or more monitoring offices and sees or is otherwise notified of problems at one or more of the traffic lights or traffic information display devices then the individual may be able to contact or notify one or more supporter of the incident. The one or more supporter has or is provided with the capability to assist with the problems. The problems may be for example a stranded vehicle in the intersection debris in the roadway issues with one or more traffic lights among others. The one or more supporter may use a support vehicle e.g. a tow truck or other type of vehicle that is provided with items and capabilities of assisting motorists with accidents or roadside problems to assist.

Control is a data processing apparatus that includes a memory operatively connected to a processor . The processor may be one or more general purpose or specific purpose processors or microcontrollers for controlling the operations and functions of the traffic information display device . In some implementations the processor may include a plurality of processors computers servers or other processing elements in one or more locations for performing different functions within the traffic light system .

The memory may include one or more internally fixed storage units removable storage units and or remotely accessible storage units each including a tangible storage medium. The various storage units may include any combination of volatile memory and non volatile memory. For example volatile memory may comprise random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM etc. Non volatile memory may comprise read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory etc. The storage units may be configured to store any combination of information data instructions software code etc. The memory processor and different components of each the memory and processor may be located in one or more locations including at the traffic information display device and or one or more monitoring office. Programs and other commands for the traffic information display device e.g. illuminating the proper portions of the lighted display area to communicate the programmed or selected message or information to motorists and or one or more traffic light may be stored at memory and executed by processor .

Control also includes a communication device that enables communication between the traffic information display device and one or more traffic lights and or one or more monitoring offices. The communication device may communicate over communication network or other ways of communication and communication device may support wired networks wireless networks Bluetooth networks WiFi networks WiMax networks RF networks local area networks LAN internet networks wide area networks WAN cellular telephone network hardwired telephone networks 900 MHz wireless networks and satellite networks among others.

At step the data processing apparatus determines the state of a particular traffic light from the received data. In some implementations a particular traffic light may be in a first state or a second state. In some implementations the first state may be when the traffic light is red or otherwise informing motorists to stop at the traffic light e.g. flashing red light . In some implementations the second state is any traffic light state that is not the first state e.g. yellow green flashing yellow etc. . In some implementations if the status of the traffic light is determined to be yellow green or emergency status described below an emergency message or an emergency number to contact may be provided in the instructions portion . Also other information may be provided in the instructions portion including advertisements and news among others during traffic light status of green lights yellow lights emergency status and in some implementations red lights.

The status of one or more traffic lights may be determined to be emergency status when the connection between one or more traffic information display devices and one or more traffic lights is disrupted the electrical power for one or more traffic lights associated with the one or more traffic information display devices is disrupted one or more monitoring office adjusts one or more traffic light status to emergency status e.g. based on a stalled car or accident in an area that affects one or more traffic light in the related traffic light system among others. In some implementations in the emergency status the traffic light may flash red and or the traffic information display device may indicated an emergency or provide information about the emergency information pertaining to directions e.g. detours or turning off engines and or incentives.

In flow diagram if the particular traffic light is determined to be in the first state then at step the data processing apparatus determines if a message should be displayed given the timing status. For example in some implementations a predetermined or adjusting amount of time before the light status is set or scheduled to change may be set. Such a time may be for example 45 seconds or some other time.

If the current time at the time of the determination in step is made is after the predetermined or adjusting amount of time or the time remaining until a status change is less than the predetermined or adjusted amount of time then a message may not be displayed or the message that is displayed may be different. However if the current time at the time of the determination in step is made is before the predetermined or adjusting amount of time or the time remaining until a status change is greater than the predetermined or adjusted amount of time then as seen in step the traffic information display device will display a message for motorists to shut off their engines. Further if in the determination at step the particular traffic light is determined to be in the second state then as seen in step the traffic information display device will not display a message for engine instructions.

At step the data processing apparatus determines the state of a particular traffic light. In some implementations the first state may be when the traffic light is red or otherwise informing motorists to stop at the traffic light and the second state is any traffic light state that is not the first state. If the particular traffic light is determined to be in the first state then at step the data processing apparatus determines if the time remaining before the traffic light status changes is greater than a threshold amount of time as previously described the threshold amount of time may be predetermined or adjusted . If the particular traffic light is determined to be in the second state then at step the traffic information display device will not display a message for engine instructions.

In step if the time remaining before the traffic light status changes is greater than the threshold amount then the process moves to step where the traffic information display device will display a message for motorists to shut off their engines. If the time remaining before the traffic light status changes is less than the threshold amount the process may proceed to step .

However in some implementations step may be performed. At step the data processing apparatus determines if the time remaining before the traffic light status changes is less than a second different threshold time e.g. ten seconds . If the time remaining is less than the second threshold time then at step the traffic information display device will display a message for motorists to turn on their engines. In some implementations the second threshold time is a time that is less than the first time threshold but greater than zero i.e. the time the traffic light status changes .

Step provides instructions to motorists to enable them to have their vehicle on when the traffic light status changes. However if at step the data processing apparatus determines the time remaining before the traffic light status changes is greater than the second threshold time e.g. less than 45 seconds but greater than ten seconds then the process will proceed to step where the traffic information display device will not display a message for engine instructions.

Embodiments of the subject matter and the operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer programs i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on computer storage medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. Alternatively or in addition the program instructions can be encoded on an artificially generated propagated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for execution by a data processing apparatus. A computer storage medium can be or be included in a computer readable storage device a computer readable storage substrate a random or serial access memory array or device or a combination of one or more of them. Moreover while a computer storage medium is not a propagated signal a computer storage medium can be a source or destination of computer program instructions encoded in an artificially generated propagated signal. The computer storage medium can also be or be included in one or more separate physical components or media e.g. multiple CDs disks or other storage devices .

The operations described in this specification can be implemented as operations performed by a data processing apparatus on data stored on one or more computer readable storage devices or received from other sources.

The term data processing apparatus encompasses all kinds of apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer a system on a chip or multiple ones or combinations of the foregoing The apparatus can include special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . The apparatus can also include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system a cross platform runtime environment a virtual machine or a combination of one or more of them. The apparatus and execution environment can realize various different computing model infrastructures such as web services distributed computing and grid computing infrastructures.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform actions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing actions in accordance with instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Devices suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a user computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN an inter network e.g. the Internet and peer to peer networks e.g. ad hoc peer to peer networks .

While this specification contains many specific implementation details these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of any inventions or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular embodiments of particular inventions. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment can also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Thus particular embodiments of the subject matter have been described. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims. In some cases the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. In addition the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous.

