---

title: Pairable secure-access facilities
abstract: Systems and methods are provided for providing access to secure-access facilities based on pairing of the secure-access facilities with a user device such as a wearable device. A pairable secure-access facility may be a public storage facility or device such as a locker that includes communications circuitry for pairing with the user device. Once paired with the user device, the locker may operate a locking mechanism to lock the locker when the user device is away from the locker and to unlock the locker when the user device is in the vicinity of the locker. The locker may include a beacon for detecting and pairing with the user devices. Pairing the user device and the locker may include entering a locker identifier into the user device to ensure that the intended user device is paired with the intended locker.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09652918&OS=09652918&RS=09652918
owner: EBAY INC.
number: 09652918
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20161115
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 557 331 filed Dec. 1 2014 now issued U.S. Pat. No. 9 542 784 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to secure public storage facilities and more particularly to temporal pairing of a user device with a pairable secure access facility.

Public locations such as train stations often provide lockers for temporary individual use by a user. When a user wishes to gain access to a public locker the user commonly has to obtain a physical key or a code in order to access the locker once it is locked often following payment for a temporary rental of the locker. Payment for a locker typically includes inserting coins or other currency into the locker or paying by credit card for the rental. However physical keys and codes can be cumbersome and can easily be lost. It would therefore be desirable to be able to provide improved secure storage for users in public places.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

Secure access facilities such as secure storage facilities may be provided to users in public places such as train stations airports recreational areas campgrounds parks amusement parks theme parks truck stops rest stops sporting events concerts arenas or other areas. For example travelers often desire a secure place to store their luggage while awaiting transportation or while visiting a new location. A train station or an airport may include secure storage facilities such as lockers that can be rented by the travelers for temporary secure storage of their luggage. The secure public storage may include a beacon or other communications circuitry for pairing the secure public storage with a user device such as a wearable user device. The pairable secure public storage may be locked and or unlocked based on the pairing. For example when a user rents a locker the user may pair their wearable device with the locker. When the user removes the wearable device from the locker the user device and the locker may lose communication and the locker may lock. When the user returns to the locker and places the wearable device in the vicinity of the locker the wearable device and the locker may reestablish communications and the locker may unlock and or open. In this way the user can be provided with an electronic key to the secure public storage without requiring the user to carry a physical key or an additional device and or remember a code.

In some implementations pairable secure storages such as a locker may require the user to provide feedback information to confirm the pairing. For example the locker may have a locker number and or may generate a unique code such as PIN number and in order to pair the user device with the locker the user may be required to enter the locker number and or code into the user device to be communicated wirelessly to the locker. Providing pairable secure storage with feedback from the user for pairing in this way may help prevent third party access to the pairing or pairing with the wrong locker by helping to ensure that only the intended user device is paired with the intended locker that is providing the locker number or code.

Entry of the code into the user device can be done via an on screen pin pad e.g. a virtual number pad with integers from 0 9 or through other means such as tapping of the user device e.g. a locker may be configured to detect 1 9 quick taps to enter each digit of the locker number and or PIN against the pairable secure access facility.

In one embodiment pairing of a pairable secure access storage may be completed using a short series of small electric currents sent along the user s hand and or arm from the locker that are detected by the wearable device. Data can be encoded in this series of currents which could be sent back to the locker to verify that this wearable is the one which should be paired with.

Once paired a locked secure storage facility may then require the presence of the paired wearable device to unlock the locker. Prior to pairing when the locker is unused a wearable device may be detected in the vicinity of the locker and the locker may trigger a pairing process with the wearable device.

Although secure storage facilities such as lockers are sometimes discussed herein as examples this is merely illustrative. Other secure access facilities may also be pairable secure access facilities such as parking garages truck stop showers truck stop or airport rental beds or sleeping areas mailboxes restrooms or restroom stalls or other secure areas that can be locked and or unlocked based on pairing with a user device such as a wearable user device.

System may include one or more user devices such as user device . The user device may be a wearable device such as a watch glasses a ring a necklace a glove a nametag a shirt or other electronic device that can be worn on a portion of a person s body or clothing.

System may also include a payment provider server and a pairable secure access facility such as secure access facility . Payment provider server secure access facility and or user device may be in communication over a network . User e.g. a visitor to a service location such as a traveler at a train station or a member of a gym may utilize their corresponding user device to access secure access facility . Secure access facility may be located at a merchant location or other service location such as a store a hotel a restaurant a train station a ship a park a campground an airport an entertainment location such as an arena a stadium a theater an amusement park a bank or any other location at which a person may desire to temporarily store one or more personal items or otherwise access a secure area in public place.

For example secure access facility may be a locker at a train station and user may desire to temporarily store luggage in the locker. The traveler may use user device e.g. a wearable device to access locker by pairing the user device with the locker. In another example a truck driver may desire to access a private rentable sleeping and or bathing area at a truck stop. The truck driver may use user device e.g. a wearable device to access the private sleeping or bathing area by pairing the user device with an access point of the private sleeping or bathing area.

As shown in secure access facility may include communications equipment such as communications circuitry and or one or more beacons such as wireless beacon . Communications circuitry and or beacon may include wireless communications equipment such as short range wireless communications equipment or other wireless communications equipment. Wireless communications equipment that may be included in a beacon such as beacon may include Bluetooth Low Energy BLE beacon communications equipment LTE Direct communications equipment Near Field Communications NFC equipment wireless local area network equipment e.g. WiFi based equipment cellular network equipment global positioning system GPS equipment combined cellular and GPS equipment other radio or microwave based communications equipment infrared communications equipment and or any combination thereof. In some embodiments beacon may include relatively short range wireless communications equipment such as Bluetooth Low Energy BLE beacon communications equipment LTE Direct communications equipment and or Near Field Communications NFC equipment and communications circuitry may include relatively wider range wireless communications circuitry such as wireless local area network equipment e.g. WiFi based equipment cellular network equipment global positioning system GPS equipment and or combined cellular and GPS equipment. However this is merely illustrative. In general any suitable arrangement of communications equipment may be provided in secure access facility for providing pairing and paired access capabilities with a user device.

As shown in secure access facility may include a pairing module a processor a database and a display . Pairing module may be implemented as software running on processor and or a dedicated hardware module for managing pairing operations for facility in cooperation with for example beacon . Pairing module may cooperate with beacon to emit a signal e.g. a BLE communications signal and or an NFC signal that is receivable by a user device. The emitted signal may include an identifier for the beacon and or the associated facility . A user device such as a wearable user device may passively monitor for beacon communications such as BLE communications or other near field communications from for example a pairable secure access facility e.g. a locker .

When for example a user device detects a beacon signal from beacon and verifies the identifier as belonging to a locker both the user device and the beacon in the locker may ramp up in power and establish a connection. The connection may further enable the user device to communicate with one or more other servers such as payment provider server . Beacon may be connected to a networked device at the location of facility or the beacon may include network functionality to communicate with the payment provider server. The payment provider server may be a server of a dedicated service provider for secure public storage e.g. a locker space vendor or may be general service provider e.g. a train station or shopping mall or a payment provider that additionally provides secure public storage at the service provider s locations.

User device locker and payment provider server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network .

User device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software such as hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication with beacon secure access facility and or payment provider server . For example in various embodiments user device may be implemented as a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop computer a tablet computer a wearable device such as a wristwatch or bracelet with appropriate computer hardware resources a ring with appropriate computer hardware resources eyeglasses with appropriate computer hardware e.g. GOOGLE GLASS and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an IPHONE or an IPAD from APPLES. The user device may be managed or controlled by any suitable processing device.

As shown in user device may include a pairing module a service application other applications a database a display one or more processors such as processor and communications circuitry sometimes referred to as a communications module . Pairing module service application and other applications may correspond to and or include processes procedures and or applications executable by a hardware processor for example a software program and or may be implemented as dedicated hardware modules.

Pairing module may be used by user device to establish a connection between user device and secure access facility . Pairing module may correspond to a specific software application or hardware module utilized by user device to complete a pairing with secure access facility . The pairing may provide and or verify an identity of user device including transmission of an identifier for user device . Pairing module may also correspond to an application available over the Internet for download from a service provider server or payment provider server . Pairing module may utilize communications circuitry to exchange short range wireless communications with beacon and or communications circuitry of secure access facility to complete a pairing process. Beacon may be configured to transmit an identifier such as a locker name a locker brand or a locker number reception and identification by user device and or user .

Pairing application may execute in the background of an operating system of user device and be configured to establish connections using communication module with one or more beacons e.g. wireless beacons of secure access facility . The connection may be established with or without user input from user . For example beacon may broadcast a token such as a universally unique identifier UUID for reception by pairing module . Pairing module may utilize communication module of the user device to receive the token from beacon . If pairing module acknowledges the UUID as identifying facility pairing module may transmit an identifier corresponding to user device back to beacon . Pairing module may utilize communication module to communicate with beacon e.g. over near field communication Bluetooth Bluetooth Low Energy radio infrared WiFi cellular GPS combined cellular and GPS microwave a combination thereof or other connection . The identifier from user device may include be transmitted with concatenated with or otherwise bundled with the identifier received from beacon .

Secure access facility may operate display to provide the locker number or other unique identifier such as a PIN number or passcode to user . User may enter the provided locker number or identifier into user device using for example input output devices e.g. a real or virtual keypad a button a switch a touchscreen etc. . The entered number or identifier may be transmitted using communications circuitry to beacon or the user may use user device to directly enter the provided number or code to beacon e.g. by tapping user device against beacon so that the number or code may be entered by proximity based communication between communications circuitry and beacon .

Once a connection is established with beacon user device may be paired with secure access facility . The pairing process may then associate that user device with the beacon and or facility . In such embodiments pairing module of user device may utilize short range wireless communication with beacon and or communications circuitry such as near field communication Bluetooth Bluetooth Low Energy radio infrared WiFi cellular GPS combined cellular and GPS microwave a combination thereof or other connection.

Pairing module may utilize communication module to pass information such as user information to payment provider server including information for processing a payment for temporary access to secure access facility based on the pairing. User device may communicate directly with payment provider server through network and or via secure access facility e.g. using beacon and or communications circuitry . For example user may be provided with the ability to access and pay for rental of a locker using a single pairing operation between user device and secure access facility in which payment processing information is also exchanged with payment provider server during before and or after the pairing operation.

User device may include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to user device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Other applications may also include email texting voice and IM applications that allow a user to send and receive emails calls texts and other notifications through network . In various embodiments other applications may include financial applications such as banking online payments money transfer mobile wallet payment method selection and or other applications. Other applications may include browser and or mapping applications where the functions are not provided by pairing module and or service application . Other applications may contain software programs executable by a processor including a graphical user interface GUI configured to provide an interface to the user.

User device may further include memory such as database which may include for example identifiers such as operating system registry entries cookies associated with pairing module service application and or other applications identifiers associated with hardware of user device or other appropriate identifiers such as identifiers used for payment user device authentication or identification. Database may include user device tokens and or encryption keys including a public key of secure access facility for beacon . Database may include identifying information for tokens enabling pairing module to identify beacon when receiving a corresponding token. In one embodiment identifiers in database may be used to associate user device with a particular user account maintained by payment provider server . Database may further include online account access information.

User device may include a communication module adapted to communicate with beacon and or payment provider server . In various embodiments communication module may include a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency infrared Bluetooth BLE WiFi cellular GPS combined cellular and GPS microwave near field communication devices and or a combination thereof. Communication module may communicate directly with beacon without network using short range wireless communications.

Beacon may cooperate with pairing module to pair the locker with the user device when the user device is in proximity to beacon . Secure access facility may be maintained for example by a service location and or a payment provider associated with payment provider server . Beacon may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wireless communication with user device . For example in one embodiment beacon may be implemented as a dongle device including a hardware processor and a communication module for example connected to secure access facility . Beacon may also act as a stand alone device including a processor communication module and or network interface component configured to communicate with user device and or payment provider server e.g. by communicating through LTE Direct . Although a single beacon is described a plurality of beacons may be included in secure access facility . Beacon may communicate with payment provider server to enable payment provider server to associate a particular user with a location at which a secure access facility is located.

Beacon of may include processes procedures and or applications executable by a hardware processor for example a software program configured to interact with user devices . Beacon may include applications for transmitting requests to establish a connection between a user device and beacon . Thus beacon may utilize a low energy short range wireless communication of beacon to transmit requests to establish a connection with user device including an identifier such as a Universally Unique Identifier UUID . If user device receives a request to establish the connection with beacon and respond with a device identifier potentially including the UUID and other information to effectuate a pairing of each device beacon may ramp up in power and create a connection between user device and beacon .

Beacon may transmit the request to establish the connection with user device as a short range communication e.g. a BLE protocol communication including a wake up process for pairing module of user device and or a token for beacon or secure access facility . In other embodiments the request and or connection may be transmitted using near field communication radio communication infrared communication or Bluetooth communication BLE communication WiFi communication cellular communication GPS communication microwave communication and or any suitable combination thereof.

After beacon receives a device identifier beacon may determine that user device is at or in proximity to secure access facility . In one embodiment beacon may pass the user device identifier to payment provider server to complete the pairing and payment process and associate user device with that facility . However this is merely illustrative. In some embodiments pairing of user device with secure access facility may be performed without communication with payment provider server . For example the user may pay separately for a locker rental and pairing operations may be performed exclusively using communications between user device and facility .

Secure access facility may utilize communications circuitry to pass information to payment provider server and or beacon may utilize a network connection of beacon through a communication module of beacon to communicate with payment provider server . Additionally beacon may keep a communication channel open between user device and payment provider server for passing information to and from the device.

Communications circuitry may include a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency infrared Bluetooth BLE cellular GPS combined cellular and GPS microwave near field communication devices and or any combination thereof. Communications circuitry may communicate directly with user device without network using short range wireless communications.

Secure access facility may be maintained by anyone or any entity that establishes and or maintains secure access locations such as lockers in a location such as a location with services and or products offered to users. Secure access facility may include a pairing module input output device e.g. a real or virtual keypad one or more buttons switches or touchscreens a database a processor and a locking mechanism . Pairing module may correspond to processes procedures and or applications executable by a hardware processor for example a software program.

Pairing module may perform to processes to complete pairing with user device . Thus pairing module may be configured to transmit and or receive pairing requests from user devices such as user device and complete the pairing requests. In one embodiment a pairing request may include log in information for a user account of payment provider server . Pairing may include verifying the account information. However in embodiments where a user account has not been previously established by user pairing module may receive other information for identifying user or user device such as user names identifiers user device identifiers or other information.

Additionally pairing module may unpair user device when user device leaves the proximity of beacon when the user s paid time runs out or when the user removes their belongings from or otherwise leaves the secure access facility. Locking mechanism may be a mechanical lock an electromagnetic lock or other suitable structures and or circuitry operable to lock and unlock facility e.g. a lockable opening to a secure internal cavity room or other space . For example locking mechanism may include a bolt or other physically actuatable member coupled to a motor or other mechanism for actuating the bolt to a locked or unlocked position. In another example locking mechanism may include magnetic structures coupled to circuitry for alternately magnetizing or demagnetizing or more of the magnetic structures to secure or release an electromagnetic bond between the magnetic structures e.g. opposing magnetic structures on a lockable opening such as a door and a frame of a locker or magnetic structures within a door of a locker that are operable to fix or release a door handle for opening the locker .

In various embodiments secure access facility may include other applications and or modules as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to secure access facility . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing server side security features programmatic server applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Other applications may contain software programs executable by a processor including a graphical user interface GUI configured to provide an interface to a user.

Secure access facility may include a database which may include for example identifiers such as operating system registry entries cookies associated with pairing module identifiers associated with hardware of secure access facility or other appropriate identifiers such as identifiers used for pairing payment user device authentication or identification. Database may store identifiers and or user accounts of user which may comprise an identifier for user and or user device . In various embodiments identifiers in database may be used by a payment credit provider such as payment provider server to associate user with a particular account maintained by a payment provider server . For example an identifier for a payment account with a payment provider server may be stored with a user account and or identifiers of users in database . In other embodiments a user account stored in database may include a shared identifier with the payment account with a payment provider server . Identifiers stored in database may be temporarily stored while a particular user owns access to the secure access facility and may be erased or replaced when a subsequent user rents or purchases access to the secure access facility .

Payment provider server may include a payment provider server maintained for example by an online payment service provider which may provide user account and payment services on behalf of user and other users. In this regard a payment provider server includes one or more processing applications which may provide payment for items using a user account with that payment provider server . In one example payment provider server may be provided by PAYPAL Inc. of San Jose Calif. USA. Although payment provider server is described as separate from secure access facility payment provider server may be operated by a common entity with secure access facility or a separate entity from secure access facility . For example a payment provider may provide secure access facilities for use by users via device pairing at a location a payment provider may provide payment operations for a third party provider of secure access facilities for use by users via device pairing at a location or secure access facilities for use by users via device pairing at a location may be provided independent of any involvement of a payment provider.

Payment provider server may include a transaction processing engine a database of user accounts and a network interface component . Transaction processing engine may correspond to processes procedures and or applications executable by a hardware processor for example a software program or to dedicated hardware systems. In other embodiments payment provider server may include additional or different software or hardware as required.

Transaction processing engine may be configured to receive information from one or more user devices and or secure access facility for processing and completion of financial transactions. Transaction processing engine may include one or more modules to process financial transactions between user devices and or service provider server . Financial transactions may include financial information corresponding to user debit credit card information checking account information a user account e.g. payment account with a payment provider server or other payment information. Transaction processing engine may complete the financial transaction for the purchase request by providing payment secure access facility or an operator thereof. In various embodiments transaction processing engine may provide transaction histories including receipts to user device in order to provide proof of purchase for temporary access to secure access facility .

Additionally a payment provider server includes user accounts . As previously discussed user may establish one or more user accounts with a payment provider server . User accounts may include user information such as name address birthdate payment funding information travel information additional user financial information and or other desired user data.

In various embodiments payment provider server may include at least one network interface component adapted to communicate with user device and or secure access facility over network . In various embodiments network interface component may comprise a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency RF infrared IR BLE cellular GPS combined cellular and GPS microwave and or near field communication devices and or any combination thereof.

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks. Thus network may correspond to small scale communication networks such as a private or local area network or a larger scale network such as a wide area network or the Internet accessible by the various components of system .

When user device is placed in the vicinity of a particular locker e.g. within range of communications with beacon such as within 1 centimeters cm within 1 inch within 4 cm within 10 cm or within 100 cm user device and that locker may be paired. As described in further detail herein during pairing operations display may display a locker identifier such as a locker number or other numerical or alphanumeric code to the user of user device . While the locker identifier is displayed the user may enter the locker identifier into user device or directly into locker using device . The locker identifier may be transmitted to locker from user device so that locker can identify which user device with which to pair.

Once paired when the user removes user device from the vicinity of locker locker may actuate a locking mechanism to lock locker . Access to that locker may then require that the user return user device to the vicinity of that locker . When the user device that has been paired with that locker is returned to within the vicinity of that locker the locker may actuate the locking mechanism to unlock the locker. For example a pairing module of the locker may be configured to operate the mechanism to unlock the lockable opening when the user device is paired with the beacon and when the user device is in communication with the beacon and or to lock the lockable opening when the user device is paired with the beacon and when the user device is not in communication with the beacon.

Locker and or user device may store pairing information for the other so that the locker and the user device remain bonded and when the user device is returned to the vicinity of locker communications can be reestablished for unlocking the locker. The pairing information may be stored for a limited time. For example if the user rents a locker for three hours based on a pairing with their user device the locker may store pairing information for that user device for three hours. In this example at the end of the three hours the pairing information may be deleted or blocked so that the user would be required to pay for additional time and in some scenarios re pair the user device and the locker to regain access to the locker.

Illustrative steps that may be performed by a user for using a pairable secure access facility such as a pairable secure public storage facility are shown in .

At step a user may pair a user device such as a wearable device with a pairable public storage. Pairing the wearable device with the pairable public storage may include placing the wearable device in the vicinity of the pairable public storage and entering a code provided from the pairable public storage into the wearable device. Pairing the wearable device with the pairable public storage may also include providing payment for temporary or permanent rental of the pairable public storage. Providing payment may include providing payment directly to a point of sale device on the locker or the payment may be automatically provided by a payment provider server in communication with the locker responsive to the pairing. For example the user may have an account with the payment provider server and may have a pre authorization for locker rentals or other transactions with the payment provider server. When the wearable user device is paired with the locker the user device or the locker may transmit a notification to the payment provider server to process a payment from a user account of the user to an account of an operator of the pairable lockers. In various embodiments the pairable locker maybe a specific one assigned to the user such as when the user prepays or reserves a locker or selectable from a group of lockers such as at an amusement park where the user can simply select one that is open .

At step the user may access the pairable public secure storage using the paired wearable device. For example when the user returns to obtain one or more items from the locker if the user is wearing or carrying the previously paired user device the user may simply open the locker that has been unlocked based on the detected proximity of the wearable device when the user approaches.

In the example of user device is implemented as an electronic wristwatch having a housing that is adapted to be worn around a person s wrist. As shown in a display e.g. an implementation of display of may be provided in housing . A virtual keypad may be provided to the user with display . The virtual keypad may be used to enter a locker number or other code or PIN provided by a pairable secure access facility for pairing of the electronic watch with the pairable secure access facility as described herein.

In the example of user device is implemented as an electronic ring having a housing that is adapted to be worn around a person s finger such as finger . As shown in a display e.g. an implementation of display of may be provided in housing . Display may be used provide instructions to the user e.g. the display may present images or text such as TAP indicating that the user should tap the electronic ring against a secure access pairable facility to enter a locker number or other code or PIN provided by the pairable secure access facility for pairing of the electronic ring with the pairable secure access facility as described herein.

In the example of user device is implemented as electronic eyeglass having a frame that is adapted to be worn on a person s face. For example frame may include arms that are adapted to extend over a person s ears. One or more lenses e.g. transparent or semitransparent plastic or glass may extend from frame so that a wearer of the glasses looks through lenses . The glasses may include a central portion e.g. a portion of the lenses or an additional member mounted to or between the lenses that is adapted to rest on a person s nose to support lenses in front of the user s eyes.

As shown in lenses may be implemented as a display e.g. an implementation of display of for the eyeglasses. For example text such as text e.g. ENTER PAIR CODE NOW may be projected onto or emitted from display pixels within lenses such that a wearer of the eyeglasses can view and read the text. One or more buttons such as button may be provided with which the user can enter information such as a locker number or other code or PIN provided by a pairable secure access facility for pairing of the electronic eyeglasses with the pairable secure access facility as described herein. In another embodiment the electronic eyeglasses may include a camera or other eye monitoring equipment that can detect input from the user based on eye movements and or blinking.

As noted above in one embodiment a wearable user device may communicate directly with a pairing module on a pairable secure access facility using electronic signals exchanged between the wearable user device and the pairable secure access facility over for example the wearer s skin. shows an exemplary implementation of user device for pairing with a pairable secure access facility using electronic signals transmitted over the wearer s skin. In the example of user device is implemented as an electronic wristwatch having a housing adapted to fit around a person s wrist.

As shown in device may include one or more electrodes . Electrodes may be arranged to send and receive electrical signals such as signals and that travel along the skin of the user s hand . For example when a user wishes to pair user device with a pairable secure access facility the user may contact a pairing module on the pairable secure access facility with their skin e.g. with a finger as shown in .

Pairing module may include circuitry that transmits a signal such as a current that is received by electrodes and processed by a processor e.g. processor and or pairing module of of the user device. Signal may include an identifier of that particular pairable secure access facility . User device may transmit a signal that includes the identifier or other information based on the identifier to circuitry of pairing module using electrodes . Signals and may be exchanged in addition to other pairing communications between a beacon of the pairable secure access facility and communications circuitry of the user device and may be used in addition to or in place of a PIN entry to verify pairing of the intended user device with the intended pairable secure access facility.

Illustrative steps that may be performed by a user device such as a wearable user device for obtaining access to a pairable secure access facility based on pairing with the pairable secure access facility are shown in .

At step a pairable secure access facility such as a pairable public storage device e.g. a locker a restroom a bicycle locker or other pairable secure access facility as described herein may be detected with a wearable user device. Detecting the pairable secure access facility may include receiving with communications circuitry of the wearable user device a signal transmitted by the pairable secure access facility while the wearable user device is in proximity to the pairable secure access facility.

At step pairing information may be provided from the wearable user device to the pairable public storage device. For example the pairing information may include automatically transmitted information for pairing operations e.g. a user device identifier and may include a storage device identifier or PIN that has been entered into the wearable user device by the user based on a display of the information by the pairable public storage device. As another example the pairing information may include a storage device identifier or PIN that is entered via one or more taps with the wearable user device e.g. as described above in connection with against the pairable public storage device. As another example the pairing information may include a storage device identifier or PIN that is exchanged between the wearable user device and the pairable public storage device using electrical signals transmitted over the wearers skin e.g. as described above in connection with .

At step pairable public storage device access information may be stored on the wearable user device. The pairable public storage device access information may include encrypted or unencrypted information generated based on the pairing of the wearable user device and the pairable public storage device such as an access code to be transmitted to the pairable public storage device when the pairable public storage device is again detected e.g. when the user returns to the locker to open the locker . In this way the wearable user device and the pairable public storage device may remain bonded even when the wearable user device is separated from the pairable public storage device.

At step the stored access information may be provided from the wearable user device to the pairable public storage device based on a proximity of the pairable public storage device. For example when the user returns to a locker that has been paired and is bonded with their user device the wearable user device may again detect the pairable public storage device in the vicinity of the wearable user device. Responsive to the detection the wearable user device may transmit e.g. using BLE communications the stored access information so that the user can access the pairable public storage device.

Illustrative steps that may be performed by a pairable secure access facility for providing access to the pairable secure access facility based on pairing with a user device such as a wearable user device are shown in .

At step a user device such as a wearable user device may be detected by a pairable secure access facility such as a pairable public storage device e.g. a locker a restroom a bicycle locker or other pairable secure access facility as described herein . Detecting the wearable user device may include receiving with communications circuitry of the pairable secure access facility signals transmitted by the wearable user device while the wearable user device is in proximity to the pairable secure access facility.

At step pairing information may be displayed by the pairable public storage device. For example a display of the pairable public storage device may be used to present a locker number or other unique identifier of the pairable public storage device to the wearer of the wearable user device.

At step the pairing information that was displayed may be received from the wearable user device at the pairable public storage device. For example the pairing information may be received following transmission of the pairing information from the wearable user device as described for example in connection with step of .

At step the pairable public storage device may be paired with the wearable user device. Pairing the pairable public storage device with the wearable user device may include generating and or providing pairable public storage device access information to the wearable user device that can be stored by the user device and returned to the pairable public storage device when the user device is in the vicinity of the pairable public storage device.

While the user device stores the pairable public storage device access information and while the pairable public storage device maintains that access information as an access key for granting access to the pairable public storage device the wearable user device and the pairable public storage device may remain bonded so that when the user device is in the vicinity e.g. within communications range of communications circuitry such as NFC circuitry and or BLE circuitry of the pairable public storage device of the pairable public storage device the pairable public storage device may be unlocked and when the user device is away from the pairable public storage device e.g. outside the communications range the pairable public storage device may be locked. In another embodiment while the pairable public storage device and user device are bonded the user may be provided with options e.g. on a display of the user device for unlocking or locking the storage device even while the user device is within the vicinity of the storage device.

At step pairable public storage device access information may be received from the wearable user device at the pairable public storage device based on a proximity of the pairable public storage device and wearable user device. For example when the user returns to a bonded locker the wearable user device may again detect the pairable public storage device in the vicinity of the wearable user device. Responsive to the detection the wearable user device may transmit e.g. using BLE communications the stored access information and the pairable public storage device may receive the transmitted information.

At step the pairable public storage device may provide access to the pairable public storage device responsive to the received access information. For example the pairable public storage device may receive the access information from the user device verify that the access information is valid access information for that device and that pairable public storage device and operate a locking mechanism to unlock the pairable public storage device to provide the access.

Thus a user may determine which user device the user wishes to pair with the locker based on various factors including what will be most convenient for the user. For example if the user is planning to exercise or swim the user may select a ring as the pairing device. In that case the user does not have to carry around a phone watch or other device that may be damaged or stolen while the user is engaged in an activity.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons image or links and or moving one or more images etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device a merchant device or a service provider server via network . In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. One or more processors which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor s may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor s and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor s for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various embodiments non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. A non transitory computer readable medium may include instructions which in response to execution by a computer system cause the computer system to perform some or all of one or more methods as described herein. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media include for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EEPROM FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

