---

title: Proximity awareness system for motor vehicles
abstract: Various embodiments provide enhanced warnings of potential future adverse events (e.g., automobile crashes) by tracking the location and motion of multiple vehicles, and providing alerts or warnings to the drivers of such vehicles in the event that a risk of an adverse event is identified.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09659496&OS=09659496&RS=09659496
owner: Ridar Systems LLC
number: 09659496
owner_city: Palmer
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160210
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 62 114 236 titled Proximity Awareness System for Cyclists and filed Feb. 10 2015 naming Brent F. Massey and Greg L. Rouleau as inventors. The forgoing application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates to vehicle safety systems and more particularly to proximity alert systems.

It is known in the prior art to alert a motor vehicle operator to the presence of nearby vehicles by sensing such other vehicles with sensors such as onboard vehicle radar systems. However such systems are limited to detecting other vehicles that are within the sensor s range typically within a few vehicle lengths.

Some embodiments provide a method of improving road safety for vehicles which method includes receiving at an interaction detector a plurality of monitoring vectors from a plurality of vehicles travelling on one or more roads determining from the plurality of monitoring vectors whether there is an interaction between the plurality of vehicles an interaction determined when two of the plurality of vehicles are within a predetermined distance of one another such that the plurality of vehicles have a risk of collision the interaction being determined without use of prior knowledge of the route of either of the two vehicles and alerting an occupant of one of the plurality of vehicles if an interaction is determined. In some embodiments the interaction detector is remote from the plurality of vehicles.

Other embodiments relate to autonomous vehicles. An embodiment of a method of operating an autonomous vehicle includes receiving at an interaction detector a plurality of monitoring vectors from at least an autonomous vehicle and a second vehicle determining from the a plurality of monitoring vectors whether there is an interaction between the autonomous vehicle and the second vehicle and interaction determined when the autonomous vehicle and the second vehicle are within a predetermined distance of one another such that the autonomous vehicle and the second vehicle have a risk of collision and remotely controlling the autonomous vehicle based on a detected interaction to avoid a collision between the autonomous vehicle and the second vehicle. For example the act of remotely controlling the autonomous vehicle may include sending instructions to a control system in the autonomous vehicle to take an action selected from the group consisting of slowing the autonomous vehicle stopping the autonomous vehicle and performing an evasive maneuver to avoid a collision with the second vehicle.

Another embodiment provides a system including an interaction detector having a communications interface for receiving a plurality of monitoring vectors from a first vehicle and a second vehicle travelling on one or more roads an interaction risk module configured to determine from the plurality of monitoring vectors whether there is an interaction between the first vehicle and second vehicle an interaction determined when the first vehicle and second vehicle are within a predetermined distance of one another such that the first vehicle and second vehicle might have a risk of collision with one another and a message generator configured to generate a message to at least the first in response to a determination by interaction risk module of an interaction and to send the message to the first vehicle via a vehicle the communications interface. In some embodiments in which the first vehicle is an autonomous vehicle the message includes instructions to remotely control the first vehicle to avoid a potential collision between the first vehicle and the second vehicle.

Various embodiments provide enhanced warnings of potential future adverse event e.g. automobile crashes by tracking the location and motion of multiple vehicles and providing alerts or warnings to the drivers of such vehicles if the risk of an adverse event is identified. Some embodiments also control autonomous vehicles if the risk of an adverse event is identified. Generally illustrative embodiments provide such warnings and or control without the need for input from sensors that detect the vehicle s immediate environment. In various embodiments systems and methods are able to identify a risk of collision sooner than a vehicle s on board sensors and indeed may identify a risk of collision between vehicles even when vehicle on board sensors are unable to detect such a risk for example because the vehicles are beyond a sensor s range or line of sight. Various embodiments enhance road safety for vehicles traveling on a network of roads by reducing the risk of collision for example by giving drivers ample warning of nearby vehicles and or by controlling vehicles to reduce a risk of collision. Consequently safety is improved for the entire network of roads and for the drivers on the network of roads.

Definitions. As used in this description and the accompanying claims the following terms shall have the meanings indicated unless the context otherwise requires 

The term interaction in reference to the location of a first motor vehicle relative to a second motor vehicle means that the two vehicles are within a predetermined distance e.g. a risk radius of one another such that the two vehicles have a risk of collision. A potential interaction means that within a predetermined time frame the two vehicles may be within a predetermined distance of one another for example such that the two vehicles have a heightened risk of collision. The predetermined time frame and or the predetermined distance may depend for example on the speed of the vehicles. An interaction between two vehicles does not necessarily mean that two vehicles have a risk of collision however since for example the two vehicles could be traveling on adjacent roads that do not intersect or that are separated by a barrier or other feature that would prevent the vehicles from colliding. In various embodiments an act of determining whether two vehicles have an interaction or a potential interaction does not require prior a priori knowledge of or use of such knowledge of a pre planned route that either vehicle is travelling or plans to travel or the destination of such vehicles. In this context a pre planned route means a series of pre planned steps to be taken by a vehicle in order to travel from one place to another e.g. from a starting location to a destination . For example when embarking on a trip a driver may use maps or a GPS based navigation system as known in the art to pre plan a route from a starting point to a destination. The term prior or a priori knowledge does not refer to or encompass the fact or assumption that a vehicle moving on a road is likely to continue moving on that road in the immediate future or a vehicle operator s intention plan to simply keep the vehicle moving on the road in the normal course of operating the vehicle. In addition the term destination includes an end point of a route or an intermediate point along a route.

The term monitoring vector in reference to a motor vehicle refers to characteristics of that vehicle s physical state at a specific time. For example a monitoring vector may include all or some of the following characteristics location altitude speed direction or heading and identity of road on which the vehicle is located to name but a few examples. In some embodiments a monitoring vector may include but is not required to include information from a vehicle s other on board sensors such as sensors that detect other objects near the vehicle or in the vehicle s blind spot.

A risk radius is a vector extending outward from a vehicle and which may be specified in units of distance e.g. feet meters miles or time e.g. seconds and or some other combination of information in the vehicle s monitoring vector. A given vehicle may have more than one risk radius. For example a given vehicle traveling in a first direction may have a first risk radius relative to a first vehicle behind the given vehicle and traveling in the same direction and a second risk radius relative to an oncoming second vehicle traveling in the opposite direction which second vehicle is closing the gap between the two vehicles. In some situations a risk radius may define a circle around a vehicle but in other situations the risk radius may define an irregularly shaped area around the vehicle.

An autonomous vehicle is a vehicle that is capable of navigating without human input and may be known as a self driving vehicle for example via an on board control system. Examples of autonomous vehicles include but are not limited to any of a number of vehicles tested by Google X or that participate in the DARPA Grand Challenge to name but a few examples. Some autonomous vehicles are also capable of responding to human input. Some autonomous vehicles may be remotely controlled for example by receiving information from a remote source i.e. rather than from sensors onboard the vehicle and then determining how to react to that information and executing the determined reaction. The information from a remote source may include for example information about the autonomous vehicle s environment e.g. other vehicles in the environment or information about specific actions to take e.g. slow down stop change to an alternate route .

As shown in the motorcycle is separated from automobile by a distance but as the motorcycle and automobile move along the road the gap will shrink increasing the risk of a collision between them. For example a collision may occur if one of the vehicles crosses the centerline of the road into oncoming traffic for example due to negligence or as an intentional act of turning.

Motorcycle carries a location monitoring device and a communications device for communicating with a base which may be referred to as a back end. 

The location monitoring device may be a Global Positioning System GPS device that calculates its position relative to GPS satellites e.g. satellites or a device that calculates its position relative to one or more cellular telephone antennae e.g. . The GPS satellites and or cell towers may be considered to form elements of a network of roads. The location monitoring device may also determine whether the motorcycle is on a road and if so the name or number of that road. That information or a subset of that information and optionally in addition to the time at which that information was gathered a time stamp makes up the monitoring vector of the motorcycle . Such information may be referred to as telemetry data. 

The communications device may be a cellular telephone as known in the art or other device capable of wirelessly communicating with the base such as a radio for example. The communications device is in communication with the location monitoring device to receive from the location monitoring device information relating to or defining at least in part the monitoring vector of the motorcycle . For example the communications device and the location monitoring device may be coupled by a wireless connection such as via a Bluetooth connection for example.

Although the location monitoring device and the communications device are schematically illustrated by distinct graphical elements in some embodiments these devices may instead be a single device. For example many contemporary cellular phones have the functionality of both devices and . A device that can both determine a vehicle s location and other data in a monitoring vector and communications capacity as described above may be referred to as a mobile unit. 

The other vehicles also carry location monitoring devices and respectively and communications device and respectively and in each case may also be separate devices or a single device.

The operation of an embodiment will be described below in connection with the motorcycle and automobile . In operation the location monitoring device of the motorcycle periodically updates the information that makes up the motorcycle s monitoring vector and provides that information monitoring vector to the communications device . The communications device in turn relays the information to the base . The base may be remote from the communication device and not on board a vehicle. For example the base may be several kilometers from the communications device and or out of visual range from the communications device . Such communication may be via cellular telephone antennae and for example as is generally known from the field of cellular communications. The communications device may also send information describing the communications device and or the location monitoring device so that a message may be provide to those devices in a format suitable to such devices.

Similarly the location monitoring device of the automobile periodically updates the information that makes up the monitoring vector of automobile and provides that information monitoring vector to the communications device . The communications device in turn relays the information to the base .

In operation the systems and methods described herein send receive and process monitoring vector data on a time scale that permits systems to send messages to at least one vehicle involved in an interaction. For example vehicles may send updated monitoring vectors to a base once per second and the base may execute processes described herein to send a message within one second of receiving a monitoring vector. Consequently systems and methods described herein may be described as operating in real time. 

An embodiment of the base is schematically illustrated in and is configured to execute a process as schematically illustrated in . The base may be or include a computer such as a server having one or more processors e.g. microprocessors programmed to executed some or all of the processes described herein as well as data storage memories monitors keyboards printers input output devices communications interfaces etc.

At step the base receives the monitoring vectors from motorcycle and automobile . To that end the base station may have a communications module . The communications module may receive data e.g. monitoring vector data from a vehicle via a telephone connection such as through cellular antennae or through radio signals or other telecommunications methods.

At step the base then uses the information from those monitoring vectors to assess the relative proximity of the motorcycle and automobile at step . In some embodiments step may determine the location of each vehicle from which monitoring vectors are received e.g. motorcycle and automobile and then use that information to determine the proximity the vehicles e.g. the time or distance separating one vehicle from the other . Alternately step may determine the relative proximity of the two vehicles without first determining the actual location of each for example by determining the distance between location data provided by each vehicle s GPS unit. The base may have one or more proximity modules for this purpose.

At step the base station determines whether the motorcycle is within the risk radius of the automobile . The base may have an interaction risk module configured to perform such functions. Consequently in some embodiments an interaction potential interaction or risk of collision among vehicles may be detected remotely e.g. not on board from the vehicles themselves.

If so the base station sends a message to the automobile to inform the driver of automobile that the driver should be aware that there is a motorcycle i.e. sufficiently close to the automobile that the driver should exercise heightened vigilance for a possible collision with the motorcycle . The system may have a message generation module or alert generation module to configure a message to be sent to one of the vehicles and or to a driver or other occupant of one of the vehicles. For example a message may cause a cell phone in an automobile e.g. to make a warning sound or even play a spoken warning message. The message may simply indicate that another vehicle e.g. motorcycle is within the risk radius or may provide additional information such as the range and direction of the other vehicle. In some embodiments a message may cause a display screen within a vehicle to display information about the other vehicle such as a map showing the relative location of the other vehicle or an arrow pointing in the direction of the other vehicle. In some embodiments the message may cause a tactile signal such as causing a vehicle s steering wheel to vibrate. The system may then employ communications module to send such a message to one or more vehicles. Otherwise the process returns to step to await updated motion vectors.

In some embodiments the message may include instructions for controlling the autonomous vehicle for example to avoid a collision between an autonomous vehicle and a second vehicle. For example the instructions may be sent to a control system in the autonomous vehicle and cause the autonomous vehicle to take an action such as slowing the autonomous vehicle stopping the autonomous vehicle causing the autonomous vehicle to change lanes or pull into a breakdown lane exit the road on which the autonomous vehicle is travelling when it receives the message instructions change its route to its destination delay a maneuver that might lead to a collision e.g. delay turning across a lane of traffic in which a motorcycle is traveling and to perform an evasive maneuver to avoid a collision with the second vehicle to name but a few examples.

The processes implemented at the base may be referred to as back end processes or back end services. These processes will need to be performed by a persistent process that watches for telemetry updates performs the searches calculates the interactions and triggers the notifications. In some embodiments some or all of these back end processes may be performed using a service like IronWorker or by using raw computing platforms from Amazon. Once the back end services detect that a notification needs to be sent the message may be sent using Amazon SNS to send the notifications to the devices via Apple Push Notification or Google Cloud Messaging to name but a few examples.

In some embodiments if a message is sent the system may continue monitoring the relative locations of the motorcycle and automobile and send a follow up signal Step to indicate that the automobile is no longer within the risk radius of the motorcycle .

The step of monitoring vectors to assess the relative proximity of the motorcycle and automobile may take a variety of embodiments as schematically illustrated by .

In a simple embodiment the step of monitoring vectors to assess the relative proximity of the motorcycle and automobile may include simply assessing the distance physical distance or time distance between them step . This embodiment is schematically illustrated in and may be referred to as base level detection. 

As shown in a first vehicle in this example automobile and a second vehicle in this example motorcycle are each traveling through an interconnected network of roads. The automobile has a risk radius that defines an area bounded by a risk parameter . If the motorcycle comes within the risk radius of the automobile for example due to motion of the automobile the motorcycle or both then the system will send a message to the automobile and specifically will send a message to the communications device which will either by itself or in conjunction with another device e.g. and automobile s on board electronics such as its GPS system for example respond to that message by notifying the driver that a first vehicle i.e. motorcycle is nearby. Consequently the safety of the network of roads is enhanced.

In another embodiment the step of monitoring vectors to assess the relative proximity of the motorcycle and automobile may include altering the size of the risk radius and the position of the automobile within the risk radius based on speed and direction of the vehicles and or GPS accuracy at step . This embodiment is schematically illustrated in and may be referred to as car movement refinement. 

In the data representing the location of the automobile is altered by adjustments and or to account for errors by the automobile s GPS unit or to account for possible changes in that data that may have occurred during any time lag in the receipt by system of the motion vector from the automobile . As schematically illustrated in the risk radius may be defined e.g. larger than it would otherwise have been if based only on the position of the automobile as extending not just from the location of the automobile but from any or all points along the adjustments and or . In this way the risk radius is appropriate even if the presumed position of the automobile is incorrect or inexact.

In some embodiments for example if communications with the automobile is lost the system may predict one or more projected positions for the vehicle at a present time and use such a projected position from which to extend a risk radius . Alternately even if the presumed position of the automobile is known with confidence some embodiments may predict one or more projected positions for the vehicle at a future time and use such a projected position from which to extend a risk radius at a future time.

In another embodiment the step of monitoring vectors to assess the relative proximity of the motorcycle and automobile may include projecting or predicting the potential location s of the motorcycle to account for movement and GPS accuracy step . This may be done for example by creating a fan of points in front of the motorcycle based on its direction of travel speed and accuracy. Several points are also placed behind the motorcycle to account for GPS inaccuracy. Although this embodiment schematically illustrates nine points and in fan in the fan of points may include any desired number of points which may be directly in front of the motorcycle e.g. in front and offset to the side e.g. or directly behind e.g. or behind and offset to the side e.g. or any combination or arrangement of points of in front of behind or to the side of the motorcycle . In general as many points as needed can be added to completely encircle the motorcycle . If any of these points intersect i.e. are on the risk perimeter or are within the risk radius here illustrated as a circle of the automobile such as points A for example then there is the potential for an collision and a notification is sent to the automobile . This embodiment is schematically illustrated in and may be referred to as bike movement refinement. 

In another embodiment the step of monitoring vectors to assess the relative proximity of the motorcycle and automobile may include determining whether an adverse interaction between the two vehicles is even possible step and if not then omitting the step of sending a message step even if the motorcycle is within the risk radius of the automobile . In one embodiment the base searches Open Street Map s database or other open source or proprietary map software for the positions of both the automobile and motorcycle . For example this query may be performed using a mapping application such as the OSM Overpass API Overpass . To perform map matching this API is given a search box which will be defined by GPS accuracy of the most recent telemetry points monitoring vector for both the automobile and motorcycle it then returns a list of the roads and their properties inside that box.

Using the identified roads the base examines the properties for the roads it thinks the vehicles are on to determine if the interaction is possible. For example if two vehicles are on the same road or on roads that intersect at a point that lies on the path of two vehicles then a collision between the two vehicles is possible.

For example if the motorcycle is traveling along Main St. near the intersection of Main St. and 2nd Ave and the automobile is near the intersection of Main St. and 4th Ave then the process can conclude that both vehicles and are traveling on Main St. The base may then look at the properties for the roads it thinks the vehicles are on to determine if the interaction is possible.

For example if the vehicles and are traveling in different directions the base will determine whether either vehicle is on a protected or divided freeway for example a freeway with divided lanes such that the lanes in which the vehicles are traveling do not intersect or otherwise provide an opportunity for the two vehicles to collide . If either one is then the vehicles cannot collide so the notification will not be sent.

Alternately the system may determine that the motorcycle is traveling along a first street and that the automobile is traveling along a second street that passes over the first street on an overpass. Since the automobile may pass directly over the motorcycle there is no risk of collision even though the two vehicles are in very close proximity to on another and so the notification will not be sent.

In a motorcyclist is riding in a rural area on a two lane road and is stuck behind three cars moving at 35 mph in a 55 mph passing zone. The motorcyclist signals check his her mirror and blind spot pulls out to pass and accelerates. As the motorcyclist comes alongside the row of cars a risk of collision between the motorcycles and one of the cars increases for example if the lead car turns into a driveway coming up on the left.

In such a scenario the base will send a message to the driver of the lead car indicating that a motorcyclist is approaching from a behind.

Alternately a motorcyclist is riding in the opposite direction on the road . From the perspective of motorcyclist the car is turning in front of the motorcyclist into the path of motorcyclist . In such a scenario the base will send a message to the driver of the lead car indicating that a motorcyclist is approaching from ahead.

Alternately if the lead care is an autonomous car a message from the base may cause the car to slow or stop and wait for the motorcyclist to pass the position of the lead car .

In a motorcyclist is riding on a curving two lane road and rounds a right hand curve causing the bike to begin to drift outward with the wheels almost touching the centerline. An oncoming car appears rounding the corner straddling the same centerline. This presents a danger in that when traveling in opposite directions a car and motorcyclist cannot see one another because they are located around a bend. As they take the corner each drifts closer to one another causing a head on collision. In such a scenario the base will send a message to the driver of the lead car indicating that a motorcyclist is approaching from the front. This message should prompt the driver or the control system of an autonomous vehicle to slow stop change lanes or even pull over until the risk of collision has passed. Consequently the safety of the network of roads is enhanced.

In a motorcyclist is riding on an Interstate freeway at 65 mph in traffic. Momentarily distracted by close calls and other events on the road going on behind them the motorcyclist notices traffic is coming to a complete standstill in all three lanes in front of them. The motorcyclist is traveling too fast to stop in time and will run into the back of a vehicle at high speed. In such a scenario the base will send a message to the driver of the lead car and or the motorcyclist indicating that a motorcyclist is approaching from the rear.

Many drivers don t bother to check their blind spot before switching lanes and due to the smaller size of a motorcycle a driver will often unknowingly move into the motorcyclist s space. This presents a risk that a motorcyclist cruising down the highway finds him herself in a lane that is about to be taken over by a vehicle e.g. and automobile SUV or truck etc. because they are in the vehicle s blind spot.

In such a scenario the base sends the driver of the vehicle a message signaling that there is a motorcyclist in the vehicle s proximity.

Drivers can often make impulsive decisions when entering and or exiting the highway skipping several lanes of traffic to either get into the fast or passing lane car catch their exit car and or get out of the exit lane car . These maneuvers are often done quickly and impulsively leaving motorcyclists vulnerable to simply not being seen. 

This presents the risk that a motorcyclist sees an on ramp and moves over to the center lane or left lane to give the car space to enter the roadway as schematically illustrated in . As the car enters the highway he she notices that there is a truck in the collector lane and immediately aims to enter the passing lanes to the left overtaking the motorcycle s space.

In the driver of a car realizes that he she is about to miss his her exit and decides to cut across multiple lanes of traffic in order to make it cutting in front of or overtaking a motorcyclist s space.

In such scenarios the base sends the driver of a car a message signaling that there is a motorcyclist in the vehicle s proximity which will cause a driver of a car e.g. to re think their impulsive move and actively look around them.

A motorcyclist is cruising down a road and sees traffic building up in front of him her and begins to slow down. A distracted driver does not notice the traffic buildup and fails to slow down hitting the motorcyclist .

Many drivers are less aware of motorcycles than they are of other vehicles. If a motorcyclist slows down or has to make a sudden stop and the car behind doesn t notice they could end up hitting the motorcyclist from behind. In such a scenario the base sends a message to the driver of the car signaling that there is a motorcyclist in front thereby making the driver of care aware of motorcyclist s actions.

In some embodiments it is expected that some motorists e.g. motorcycle drivers will manually start their devices e.g. an app on a smart phone to indicate they are going to be operating in bike mode i.e. a mode in which the location monitoring device and the communications device operate to transmit to the base the monitoring vector of motorcycle .

It is also expected that car drivers will not manually start the app and that notifications should arrive whenever they are driving regardless of when they last opened the app. These constraints mean that the back end base will continually receive telemetry updates from drivers even when they aren t actually in the car. It may be desirable to avoid notifying someone who is at home in their living room every time a motorcycle drives by their house. To that end some embodiments include the features described below.

The back end at base will process all monitoring vectors coming from a device and if two consecutive updates have a speed report in excess of some pre set speed e.g. in excess of 5 mph 10 mph 15 or 20 mph or other speed to name but a few examples then the back end will indicate that that device is currently in a car and should receive messages i.e. the device should be put into car mode . This will set a mode flag in the data store of the base so the algorithms will know to process that device s monitoring vectors.

Motorcycle drivers will manually start the app and indicate that they are in bike mode. When in that mode monitoring vectors from their device will generate the extra projected points described above e.g. a fan of points as schematically illustrated in and the algorithms will include those points in the searches run for nearby cars.

Some embodiments may employ a sensor e.g. a gyroscope accelerometer or other sensor on the device to detect more tilting of the device than would be expected of a moving car. The basic idea is that a motorcycle leans enough upon initiation of a ride or during turns for example that the motorcycle driver s phone will register more tilt than that of a car driver who has their phone in their pocket cup holder purse etc. In such an event then the back end would send a notification to the device that effectively says we think you are driving a bike but didn t start your monitoring equipment in bike mode. If there is no response from the user then the device will be put into bike mode i.e. it will send monitoring vectors to the base and in some embodiments it will not receive messages from the base otherwise the device will be put into car mode.

Automatic detection of the end of a trip is more complicated because a person getting out of their car and walking around a store would have a similar GPS profile to someone who is stuck in traffic. As such some embodiments give the user options any time an interaction notification arrives. For example in some embodiments a lack of movement for a given amount of time for example 10 minutes may halt the system automatically.

First the user can simply indicate I ve arrived or End Trip or End Ride using the application on their device If they do this then the device sends via communication device a message to the base to indicate that it is in a non moving mode and consequently the base won t perform any interaction detection based on monitoring vectors from their device until it detects that they have started a new trip.

Second the user can indicate I m not driving . In this mode the back end will note that they are currently traveling either as a passenger in a car or on a bus or similar and interaction checking should not be performed. Once they are completely stationary for a pre determined amount of time e.g. 5 minutes 10 minutes 15 minutes or other pre determined time range to name but a few examples the back end will reset and put them in non moving mode until it detects they have started a new trip.

Third the user can indicate I m home . Any time the user selects this option the backend at base will flag the device as being in a non moving mode. The back end will also create a geofence an exclusion circle for example in response to input from a user around the current location and save that into the data store. An embodiment of a geofence around a user s home is schematically illustrated in . The geofence defines a geographic area around a point in this example the user s home that causes the system to change behavior when the user s device is within the geographic area .

For example ins some embodiments the base reject trip starts while the device is in that location and automatically trigger trip ends when the user arrives in that location in the future. The user can have many geofences such as place of employment etc.

Some embodiments may combine the I ve arrived and I m home responses so that any time the user stops moving a geofence is created. For example if a vehicle operator passes by a shopping mall on the way to work each day and a geofence is set there from the last time the operator stopped to shop the back end needs to reliably be able to either a not stop car mode when just passing by or b stop and restart car mode with low impact and very minimal possibility of missed interaction notifications.

In some embodiments if the user stops moving for more than a pre determined amount of time e.g. 5 minutes 10 minutes 15 minutes or other pre determined time range to name but a few examples the back end will flag the user s device as non moving mode until it detects another trip start.

At step data is transmitted from the hub to the EC2 container aka the Watcher in the interaction processor . In some embodiments the interaction processor may be remote from the hub but the interaction processor operates under the control of the hub .

Step determines whether the incoming data is from a target vehicle e.g. a motorcycle in which case data is transmitted to the target point spreading processor and the method proceeds to target vehicle processing at step or another motor vehicle e.g. automobile the driver of which is to be notified about the nearby presence of the target vehicle in which case data is transmitted to interaction detector and the method proceeds to other vehicle processing at step . In some embodiments the process of step may be performed by the EC2 Container which may include for example a computer processor e.g. a microprocessor programmed to execute the process.

At step the method creates an identifier for the target vehicle and one or more points which points may be known collectively as a point spread around the location of the target vehicle. For example in the target vehicle is has a point spread . Each the target vehicle tracked by the method has a unique identifier for example Moto for vehicle and the location of the target vehicle may be designated as Moto . Each point in the point spread has a unique identifier associate with the identifier of the target vehicle. For example the 9 points in may be identified respectively as Moto Moto Moto Moto Moto Moto Moto Moto and Moto . The points of the point spread may indicate physical locations in front of the target vehicle e.g. points and in parallel to the target vehicle e.g. points and in or behind the target vehicle e.g. points and in .

In some embodiments the method converts the locations of the target vehicle and the points in the point spread into a geohash format at step . A geohash for a given item of location data is a searchable form of that data which may be more easily searched identified and processed than location data expresses as latitude and longitude or GPS data format or data based on cell tower locations.

At step the method queries the database at hub to determine whether the location of the target vehicle and or the point spread is already in the database. If not the location of the target vehicle e.g. Moto and the location of the points of its point spread e.g. Moto to Moto are stored in a database at the hub at step and the method processes the next location update received from a vehicle at step .

Otherwise the method assesses the preexisting data in the database at step to determine whether the location of the target vehicle and the location of the points of its point spread constitute newer i.e. the data reflects the location of the target vehicle at more recent in time data. If so then the location of the target vehicle e.g. Moto and the location of the points of its point spread e.g. Moto to Moto are written over the pre existing data representing location of the target vehicle and the location of the points of its point spread in the database at step . Then at step the method updates the speed and heading of the target vehicle based on the most recent location data and saves that updated speed and heading data to the database at the hub. The method then processes the next location update received from a vehicle at step .

At step the method then analyzes target vehicle location data from the hub database to assess whether a target vehicle is within a predefined distance of a vehicle such as vehicle for example which may be referred to as a seeker. To that end the method may define a radius around the last known location of the seeker vehicle. The radius may define a circle around the last known location of the vehicle but the risk radius may define other shapes and those shapes may be centered or located at points other than the last known location of the vehicle.

At step the method determines whether any point of location data associated with a target vehicle e.g. the location of a target vehicle or a point within the point spread of a target vehicle is within the risk radius. If not then continues at step in which the interaction detection is stopped. Some embodiments update the data at the hub database to indicate that no interactions or potential interactions were identified at this time for the seeker.

Otherwise the method continues to step which assess the location data of the target vehicle to determine whether that data is a location of the vehicle e.g. Moto or a point within the point spread of the target vehicle e.g. Moto etc. . Such determination may be made based on the naming convention of the location data points. For example a data point ending in zero e.g. Moto represents the location of the target vehicle and a data point ending in any digit other than zero e.g. Moto represents a point e.g. within the point spread of that target vehicle.

If the location data represents point within the point spread of the target vehicle e.g. Moto etc. then step directs the method back to step such that the method continues to assess location data until it locates the target vehicle i.e. Moto .

When step detects the location of the target vehicle step directs the method to step to execute transaction handling functions. In some embodiments the transaction handling functions of step may be performed by the data processor which may include for example a computer processor e.g. a microprocessor programmed to execute the transaction handling functions.

The transaction handling functions further assess available data to determine whether to send a message to the seeker vehicle. In some embodiments the transaction handling functions include assessing the time stamp of the respective location information from the target vehicle and the seeker vehicle to assess whether the data is contemporaneous that is the data is close enough in time that the vehicle are close enough to one another so as to present a possibility of collision. For example if the location speed and heading of the target vehicle indicates that the target vehicle would already have passed the location of the seeker vehicle then the data is close enough in time that the vehicle are close enough to one another so as to present a possibility of collision. In some embodiments the target and seeker must be within a predetermined time of one another e.g. 30 seconds before they are deemed close enough to one another so as to present a possibility of collision.

In some embodiments the transaction handling functions include assessing whether and when a message was sent to the seeker vehicle. For example if a message about a target vehicle has been sent to the seeker vehicle within a predetermined amount of time e.g. 5 minutes the method may not send another such message but otherwise will send or re send such a message.

Unless the transaction handling functions conclude that no message should be sent step of the method notifies the seeker vehicle that a target vehicle is within its radius and may provide location details of the target vehicle. If the transaction handling functions conclude that no message should be sent then the method returns to step . For example the method may send an interaction query to the hub and receive from the hub an address for the seeker. The method then sends an interaction notification to a message transmitter e.g. notification service which in turn sends a message to the seeker and more specifically to a driver or occupant of the seeker.

Various embodiments may be implemented at least in part in any conventional computer programming language. For example some embodiments may be implemented in a procedural programming language e.g. C or in an object oriented programming language e.g. C or JAVA Script. Other embodiments of the invention may be implemented as preprogrammed hardware elements e.g. application specific integrated circuits FPGAs and digital signal processors or other related components.

In an alternative embodiment the disclosed apparatus and methods may be implemented as a computer program product for use with a computer system. Such implementation may include a series of computer instructions fixed either on a tangible medium such as a non transient computer readable medium e.g. a diskette CD ROM ROM or fixed disk . The series of computer instructions can embody all or part of the functionality previously described herein with respect to the system.

Those skilled in the art should appreciate that such computer instructions can be written in a number of programming languages for use with many computer architectures or operating systems. Furthermore such instructions may be stored in any memory device such as semiconductor magnetic optical or other memory devices and may be transmitted using any communications technology such as optical infrared microwave or other transmission technologies.

Among other ways such a computer program product may be distributed as a removable medium with accompanying printed or electronic documentation e.g. shrink wrapped software preloaded with a computer system e.g. on system ROM or fixed disk or distributed from a server or electronic bulletin board over the network e.g. the Internet or World Wide Web . Of course some embodiments of the invention may be implemented as a combination of both software e.g. a computer program product and hardware. Still other embodiments of the invention are implemented as entirely hardware or entirely software.

The embodiments of the invention described above are intended to be merely exemplary numerous variations and modifications will be apparent to those skilled in the art. All such variations and modifications are intended to be within the scope of the present invention as defined in any appended claims.

