---

title: Asset tags
abstract: A method and apparatus for scanning, by an asset tag manager during a scanning window, for wireless broadcasts from beacon devices. The method further filters the wireless broadcasts to generate a subset of the wireless broadcasts. The method continues by identifying, within the subset of the wireless broadcasts, a first wireless broadcast with a first data packet in view of an indication that a first beacon device is within a specified distance from the asset tag manager. The method proceeds by parsing the first data packet to locate a first beacon identifier associated with a first beacon device. The method also creates a second data packet with the first beacon identifier and an asset tag identifier associated with the asset. The method transmits a second wireless broadcast comprising the second data packet, the second wireless broadcast to be received by a hub.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09622025&OS=09622025&RS=09622025
owner: Enovate Medical, LLC
number: 09622025
owner_city: Murfreesboro
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160920
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 146 084 filed on Apr. 10 2015 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

Asset management systems may be systems used to manage an entire or part of a lifecycle of an asset. An entity may identify assets as objects of value to the entity. Assets may be tangible objects such as buildings hardware devices etc. or may be intangible objects such as software information intellectual property etc. Asset management systems may help an entity design deploy operate maintain track upgrade and or dispose of assets. As part of asset management an entity may use an asset tracking system to identify track the movement and or manage the entity s assets.

The assets of an entity such as a large scale enterprise may provide tracking and management challenges. For example the assets of a large scale enterprise may be numerous and or spread over multiple locations. Manual paperwork systems for tracking and managing assets may be resource intensive time intensive and prone to errors. For example when an employee checks out equipment the employee can write down the time the asset was checked out and the time that the asset was checked back in. In this example an employee may forget to write down when they checked an asset in or out fail to return an asset lie about equipment usage and so forth.

Electronic asset tracking systems ATS using barcode labels or radio frequency identification RFID may be used to decrease the time intensiveness and errors associated with manual paperwork systems. However a barcode label or an RFID tag may still demand a user to manually scan an asset to track information may not provide additional useful information and the implementation of such systems may be costly and not suitable for many environments. For example an ATS can use barcode labels or radio frequency identification RFID tags to track assets. The barcode labels or RFID tags can be attached to each asset and when the asset is checked in or out the user can scan the barcode label or RFID tag using a scanner. However a barcode label or an RFID tag may still demand a user to manually scan an asset to track information. For example a barcode label or RFID tag typically require either movement of assets past scanners e.g. palettes leaving a warehouse or airline passengers moving past a magnetic detector or employees walking around a facility to verify manually that the data matches the records e.g. stock takes . Collection of asset information using a traditional ATS can be difficult. For example equipment that is on a floor under desks behind monitors and so forth can have a barcode label or an RFID tags in inconvenient or hard to find locations. Additionally these techniques can physically locate the asset and can require personnel to physically collect the asset information. Use of manual scanners can be slow and impractical for many environments.

Assets of all kinds may be tracked. An asset may refer to an object of value to the entity. Assets may be tangible objects such as buildings hardware devices etc. or may be intangible objects such as software information intellectual property etc. As used herein a hard asset is an inanimate tangible object to be tracked whereas a soft asset refers to both intangible objects to be tracked as well as humans to which the asset tag device is attached or otherwise secured. The assets can be used to track medial assets medical personnel medical equipment patients or the like. The assets can also be non medical assets. For example the asset management system can be used to track assets in a corporate environment or a military environment. For example the individuals may be an employee of any organization military personnel in a military enterprise setting government workers at any level in government and medical personnel in a medical facility setting or the like. When the term asset is referred to herein it may be with relation to an asset accessible by any of these types of employees or personnel that may have access to confidential or sensitive information through different kinds of assets such as mobile devices computers work stations and the like. For clarity and simplified explanation the present disclosure is primarily described with reference to medical assets in a medical setting but is not so limited.

A medical asset may include equipment such as a medical cart ventilators an IV pole a tablet computer a battery pack all in one AIO personal computer and so forth. A military asset may include a mobile or stationary computer a radio system a workstation and a weapons system and the like. A government asset may include a mobile or stationary computer a workstation an authentication pad and the like. Because some assets involve computing devices such as a medical cart a tablet or personal computer these assets may provide access to confidential or sensitive patient information records in a medical setting a military setting a government setting and in a business setting. Tracking assets within these environments can be a challenge when the assets may be distributed throughout a medical facility such as a hospital nursing home or medical clinic or a military or government facility and are generally difficult to keep under constant observation at all times.

The following describes embodiments of an asset management system in the context of a medical management system MMS that is used to track medical assets.

The data including the location may flow through a communication hub or other network device and arrive at a server such as a medical database and or an authentication server . In some embodiments the data also or alternatively flows through a communications network where the communications network may include the communication hub . The data flow may also flow in the reverse direction from the server and or the communication hub to the asset e.g. in response to a request for medical information or records on a patient. The data may include asset and or management data medical information patient information authentication data and other personal and security related information and the like.

The MMS may include multiple assets . The beacon devices may be associated with fixed locations and may provide a location identifier ID for asset tag device A or B to detect such that the asset tag device A or B may determine a current location which the assets may transmit through the communication hub to the server . The beacon device may identify or be associated with any type of location including a room a hallway a common or conference room and or a grid location.

The beacon device may include a circuit board within a housing the circuit board containing a processor or discrete logic or controller or microcontroller memory non volatile and or volatile memory a battery or other power source and a transceiver primarily for transmitting. The beacon device may be programmed to transmit a beacon signal containing data to identify the beacon device to other devices such as to the asset tag device A or to the asset tag manager B running on a host machine of the asset .

In one example the beacon device may communicate with the asset tag device A and or the asset tag manager B through a personal area network PAN such as e.g. with Bluetooth technology developed by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG . In another example the PAN may be created with Bluetooth low energy BLE technology also developed by Bluetooth SIG that may be used to track the assets . For example a BLE based beacon may be associated with an asset in the MMS to communicate asset and or management information of the asset.

In another example the beacon device may be an active or passive radio frequency identification RFID tag that transmits a unique RFID number. The RFID number or identifier may be correlated at the server with a certain location such as may have been pre programmed at the server or within a distributed MMS . In this example the asset tag device A and or the asset tag manager B may be or include an interrogator that interrogates the RFID tag of the beacon device to determine the RFID number or identifier of the beacon device . When the beacon device is an active RFID tag the asset tag device A and or the asset tag manger B may receive the actively transmitted RFID number of identifier as transmitted by the beacon device .

The asset tag device A e.g. a non integrated asset tag device may be implemented in hardware and include a circuit board within a housing as depicted in the circuit board containing a processor memory non volatile and or volatile memory a battery and a transceiver. The transceiver may be a third party integrated circuit such as an RF module e.g. a Bluetooth chip an RFID interrogator and or receiver or the like. The asset tag device may be performed by processing logic comprising hardware software firmware or any combination thereof.

The asset tag manager B e.g. an integrated asset tag device may be a software program including instructions that may utilize a processor memory transceiver and the like of a host machine of the asset such as the medical cart all in one AOI any medical device in which the asset tag is integrated or any device when used in non medical applications.

The asset tag device A and or the assets may be tracked with a real time location system RTLS that determines the location of whatever is tagged or otherwise tracked by identifying a location of beacon devices in proximity of the assets . The tracked entities may include an asset or equipment a MSM and or patient s for example. The communications hub may be wired or wireless and may direct data between the assets and to and from the assets and the server .

In one example the beacon device may broadcast a location ID to any device located within the room . In this example when the asset receives the location ID from the beacon device the asset may determine its location. In another example the asset may measure a received signal strength indication RSSI from the beacon device to determine a location of the device within a radius or area for which the beacon device is designated.

For example the asset may use the received location ID from the beacon device to determine that the asset is located in an identified room. The asset may also use the RSSI to determine a location of the asset within the room such as within a threshold of location accuracy e.g. within X distance from the beacon device . In one example a room may include multiple beacon devices . The asset may receive multiple location IDs from the multiple beacon devices and use the RSSI of the different location IDs to determine the location of the asset within the room. For example the asset may use the RSSI of the different location IDs to triangulate the location of the asset in the room. In another example the beacon device may be located at different locations. For example the beacon device may be located in a hallway in a lobby in a stairwell in a room in a parking lot and so forth. When the asset tag device A or asset tag manager B determines its location the asset tag device A or asset tag manager B may communicate asset information such as location information asset management information and so forth to a closest communication hub .

In another example the asset tag device A and or the asset tag manager B can append the location ID to the asset information and communicate the appended asset information to the communication hub . The communication hub can analyze the appended information to determine the location of the asset using the location ID and the asset information. For example the communication hub can access a database that defines the locations of different beacon devices with different location IDs. The communication hub can compare the received location ID from the asset tag device A and or the asset tag manager B with the location IDs in the database to find a matching pair of location IDs and associate the defined location of the location ID with the asset .

In one example the communication hub may be a device such as a communication plate mounted to a wall. In another example the communication hub may be integrated into a construction of a location. For example the communication hub may be integrated into a floor ceiling or wall of a facility for example. In another example the communication hub may be software on the server .

In one example the communication hub may be located at a different location than the room such as a central location on the floor where the device is located or a central location in the building where the device is located . When the communication hub receives the asset information from the asset the communication hub may relay the information to a server . In one example the communication hub may receive information from different devices. When the communication hub receives the information from the different devices the communication hub may aggregate the data and send the aggregated asset information to the server .

One advantage of the asset tag device A or asset tag manager B determining its location and sending the asset management information to the communication hub may be to enable the beacon device to be small and low energy. For example because the beacon device broadcasts the location ID the beacon device may consume a small amount of power such as a 1 2 mAh per day and may be powered by a small battery for an extended period of time. The asset tag device A may have a separate power supply that may be recharged more easily than the beacon device . Another advantage of the asset tag device A or asset tag manager B communicating the asset information may be that the asset the asset tag device A may select the information of the asset tag device A to be communicated to the communication hub and communicate the information in real time and directly to the communication hub to reduce communication interference from multiple devices.

In one example the MMS may track the assets in real time or substantially real time. For example the asset may continuously communicate asset and management information to the communication hub .

In another example the MMS may track the assets on a periodic basis. For example the asset may communicate asset and management information to the communication hub on a periodic basis. In another example the communication hub may transmit a request to the asset to communicate the asset and management information. When the asset receives the request the asset may communicate the asset and management information to the communication hub .

In one example the MMS may include an implementation system to map a facility where assets may be managed e.g. determine a schematic or layout of the facility. In another example the implementation system may include software to determine a schematic or layout of the facility including rooms stairway objects hallway objects and so forth based on a digital plan and or a computer assisted built plan within the software. In another example a user may use a scanner such as a three dimensional 3D scanner and walk around the facility collecting layout information where the software may use the information from the scanner to determine the layout of the facility.

With further reference to when the implementation software has determined a layout of the facility the software may associate the beacon device and or the communication hub may be associated with the layout of the facility. For example the beacon devices and or the communication hubs in a facility may have a unique ID. When the facility layout is determined the implementation software may receive input from an input device such as a mouse a keyboard a stylus a touch screen and so forth associating the different unique IDs with locations on the facility layout.

In another example locations in the facility layout may have unique IDs associated with the location. In this example an assistance device such as a scanner or a communication device may be taken to one or more locations in the facility where the location ID may be selected the assistance device may scan or communicate with the beacon device and or the communication hub and the beacon device and or the communication hub may be associated with the location ID. In another example when a device is located at a facility location the assistance device may scan the location for the beacon devices and or the communication hubs such as by using by using Bluetooth scanning and associate the beacon device and or the communication hub scanner in the location with a location ID. For example a user may walk into a room with a first location ID use a tablet with Bluetooth technology to scan the room for the beacon devices and or the communication hubs and the software may associate the beacon devices and or the communication hubs detected by the tablet with the first location ID. The user may repeat this process for multiple locations in the facility.

In yet another example the beacon devices may have a predefined number or identifier ID . When a layout of the building is compiled the user may use a graphical user interface GUI to select which beacon device is located in each room hallway conference room and the like.

An advantage of the implementation of the MMS may be to enable integration of the MMS into a preexisting facility e.g. the MMS may be installed in a preexisting facility and the implementation system may map the preexisting facility. Another advantage of the MMS may be that the installation and implementation of the MMS may enable quick and efficient installation as the MMS may be installed and configured for a facility without invasively installing an asset management system. Another advantage of the MMS may be that the system may avoid interference by other devices by using the implementation system to determine optimal locations of the beacon devices and or the communication hubs .

The asset management system can be used in other contexts as described with respect to . The details regarding the asset tag manager and asset tag device are described in more detail below with respect to .

By way of introduction the embodiments described herein use an asset tag device which is coupled to an asset that scans for wireless broadcasts from beacon devices located at fixed locations. It should be noted that beacon devices may not be at fixed locations but their absolute or relative locations should be known to a communication hub. In other cases the asset tag devices may communication with one another to determine locations without the use of beacon devices. The asset tag device filters and parses the wireless broadcasts to locate a beacon identifier and transmits an updated wireless broadcast including the beacon identifier and asset tag identifier to a hub. It should be note that the asset tag device may not transmit the updated wireless broadcast if the asset tag device stays in the same location and the information is not updated. Although various embodiments herein describe the functionality of an asset tag device the functionality may also be achieved by the asset tag manager in connection with a host device as described herein.

It should be also noted that examples provided herein of asset tag devices being used in hospital settings are provided for purposes of illustration rather than limitation. It should be appreciated that asset tag devices as well as other cooperating devices may be used in different settings such as disaster relief operations retail stores and or product warehouses.

An asset tag device A may be an electronic device coupled to an asset or integrated into the asset and used as part of an asset tracking system ATS such as a real time locating system RTLS . An asset tag device A may be a small e.g. size of a U.S. quarter resource constrained i.e. low processing power limited memory and or limited battery life device used to transmit data such as a beacon identifier to a more powerful central device such as server . The server computer system also referred to as server may make a determination of location of an asset tag device A and or asset in view of the transmitted data. An asset tag device A may be a wireless device and transmit data using a wireless communication protocol. An asset tag device A may be a low power device and or be battery powered. An asset tag device A may use a rechargeable battery such as a lithium ion rechargeable battery. An asset tag device A may be coupled to or integrated into an asset in a variety of ways. For example an asset tag device A may be a discrete hardware device that is physically fixed to a hard asset. An asset tag device A may be a hardware device that is integrated into the hardware of an asset. A third party device such as a mobile phone may be converted into an asset tag device A by loading the asset tag software e.g. asset tag manager B and leveraging the hardware of the third party device to perform the functions of the asset tag. Asset tag may refer to asset tag device A and or asset tag manager B. The asset tag device A includes an asset tag manager B that is the processing device of the asset tag device A executes instructions corresponding to the asset tag manger B to perform the functionality describe herein. In other embodiments the asset tag manager B executes on a processing device of a host device such as the AIO or other medical asset. In some embodiments asset tag manager B may be a software implementation of asset tag device A used to perform one or more functions of the asset tag device A. Asset tag manager B may be executed by a processing device not shown .

It should be noted that an area such as area may refer a physical space delineated by the signal coverage of one or more beacon devices and . It should be appreciated that an area may be defined by software and correspond to the beacon device s physical location and associated wireless broadcast. For example a large room may have multiple areas. Two beacon devices and located at one side of a room may delineate an area while two other beacon devices at the other side of a room may delineate another area. Software may correlate the location of the beacon devices and and signal coverage of the beacon devices and to define an area such as area . Using two or more beacon devices such as beacon devices and to delineate an area may allow an asset management system to improve the accuracy of location determinations of assets. It also should be appreciated that while two beacon devices i.e. beacon device and are illustrated in as delineating area the number of beacon devices is for purposes of illustration rather than limitation. An area may be delineated by one or more beacon devices and may depend on a variety of factors such as available resources or system requirements.

A beacon device also referred to as a location identification beacon may be an electronic device fixed to a known location and or marking a fixed location and used to transmit a data packet. The data packet may include a fixed parameter such as a beacon identifier which may be used to determine a relative location of an asset or the asset tag device A or B . For example two different beacon devices and may be fixed to different corners of a room each transmitting a wireless broadcast i.e. broadcasts a signal . Each of the wireless broadcasts may contain a different beacon identifier representative of the different beacon devices. The wireless broadcasts may be received by an asset tag A and or B . The asset tag A and or B may send the beacon identifiers and the asset tag identifier to a server . The server may use the beacon identifiers to identify each beacon device and identify the known location of each beacon device and and determine the relative location of the asset tag A and or B to the beacon devices and . In another embodiment a beacon device and may be a small resource constrained i.e. low processing power limited memory and or limited battery life device used to transmit data such as a beacon identifier to an asset tag A and or B . A beacon device and may be wireless device transmitting data packets using a wireless communication protocol e.g. BLE or Wi Fi compatible with an asset tag A and or B . The beacon device and may be a low power device and or battery powered. The beacon identifier may be a unique value such as a number assigned to the beacon device by a developer and or used to identify a beacon device. The beacon identifier could also be defined by an operator such as an administrator of a hospital a person setting up a military base or the like. The beacon devices and can be installed in a location and then an operator can associate the location with the beacon device and for example. In one embodiment the major identifier 2 bytes and or minor identifier 2 bytes may be used as a beacon identifier. The major identifier and or the minor identifier may be a serialized number. In one example the major identifier is unsigned integer used to group beacons with a same proximity ID. In another example the minor identifier is an unsigned integer that differentiates beacons with the same proximity ID and major identifier.

The beacon identifier may be distinct from the universally unique identifier UUID . A UUID is an identifier standard in software constructions such as a 128 bit value where each bit is defined by any of several variants. The UUID may uniquely identify at least practically information without significant central coordination. An example of a beacon device may utilize iBeacon technology developed by Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. The iBeacon technology is a protocol used by compatible hardware transmitters that broadcast their identifier to nearby portable electronic devices. Alternatively other types of beacon devices may be used.

A broadcast may refer to the transmission of a signal containing data in a data packet. A wireless broadcast may be a type of broadcast and may refer to the transmission of a signal containing data without an electrical conductor for example the transmission of a signal through the air. A wireless broadcast may include at least two types of broadcasts an advertisement broadcast also referred to as an advertisement and a response broadcast also referred to as a scan response . Any device such as beacon device beacon device and asset tag device A may transmit a broadcast. Any device such as asset asset tag device A asset tag manager B and or server may scan and receive a broadcast such as an advertisement broadcast or a response broadcast. In an advertising mode a device e.g. beacon device and or asset tag A or B may transmit e.g. advertise an advertisement broadcast including an advertisement data packet at certain times e.g. once over intervals or periods or continuously without receiving a request from another device e.g. asset tag A hub or server to transmit the advertisement data packet. The advertisement data packet is a data packet transmitted without receiving a request from another device for the data packet. In another embodiment the device may transmit the advertisement broadcast in real time. In a response mode a device e.g. beacon device beacon device asset tag A or B may transmit a response broadcast including a response data packet in response to receiving a request from another device to transmit the response data packet. A requesting device may request a response for any reason such as for asset tracking. A response data packet is a data packet transmitted in response to a request from another device to transmit the response data packet. A request may be transmitted by any device and may be multicast or unicast between the two devices. For example asset tag device A as well as hub or server may broadcast a request for a response data packet from beacon devices or . In another embodiment hub or server may send a request to asset asset tag device A or asset tag device B for a response data packet. It should be noted that any device may send a request for a response data packet. A request may be sent once over intervals or periods or continuously.

A data packet may refer to a signal including a formatted unit of data. A data packet may include information in the form on one or more identifiers. For example in the control information i.e. data used by the network to deliver the data packet sequencing information a length of the payload source and destination addresses etc. may each be considered an identifier. In another example the user data of the data packet may include one or more identifiers. The user data may include company identifiers source device information identifiers identifiers of other manufacturing specific data e.g. manufacturer identifier wireless broadcast identifier e.g. advertisement indicator identifier location identifier beacon identifier e.g. a major identifier ID and or minor identifier ID battery identifier etc. Examples of identifiers are provided for purposes of illustration rather than limitation. It should be appreciated that different identifiers may be available. It should be appreciated that some or all of the identifiers included in a data packet may be prescribed by the particular wireless communication protocol used to transmit the data packet.

In one embodiment an asset tag A or B coupled to an asset may scan during a scanning window for wireless broadcasts e.g. wireless broadcasts and or from beacon devices and located at fixed locations. The wireless broadcast or may include data such as identifiers in a data packet. Further the wireless broadcast or may be an advertisement broadcast using a wireless communication protocol conforming of a low energy wireless personal network PAN standard such as a Bluetooth Low Energy BLE standard. The asset tag A or B may have limited memory resources to store all the wireless broadcasts. The wireless broadcasts e.g. wireless broadcast or received by the asset tag A or B may not all be from beacon devices or may be from beacon devices outside a specified distance from the asset tag A or B e.g. proximity . The asset tag A or B may filter the wireless broadcasts to generate a subset of the wireless broadcasts. The filtering may be based on at least one of signal strength of the wireless broadcast or an identifier indicating an unapproved device having transmitted the wireless broadcast. The asset tag A or B identifies from the wireless broadcasts one or more beacon devices e.g. two beacon devices such as beacon devices and that are in the closest distance to the asset tag A or B using the signal strength of the wireless broadcasts e.g. wireless broadcasts and . The asset tag A or B parses the data packet of the closest beacon device e.g. beacon device for a beacon identifier and the data packet of the next closest beacon device e.g. beacon device for another beacon identifier. The asset tag A or B creates an updated data packet using a wireless communication protocol conforming to a low energy wireless PAN standard and transmits an advertisement broadcast including the updated data packet to a hub . The updated data packet may include the beacon identifier of the closest beacon device the beacon identifier of next closest beacon device and an asset tag identifier. The hub may transmit data from the updated packet to a server computer system e.g. server where the data may be used to determine the real time location of the asset .

It should be noted that a wireless communication protocol conforming to the Bluetooth Low Energy BLE also referred to as Bluetooth Smart standard is used for purposes of illustration rather than limitation. It should be appreciated that other wireless communication protocols may be used such as protocols conforming to the Bluetooth wireless standard also referred to as Classic Bluetooth ZigBee wireless standard Wi Fi wireless standard ultra wideband UWB wireless standard or other current or future standards. It should be noted that Bluetooth shall refer to at least Bluetooth Low Energy and Classic Bluetooth unless otherwise noted. It should also be noted that in one embodiment the wireless communication protocol may a short range wireless communication protocol compatible with short range wireless communications e.g. approximately 100 m or less in a short range wireless network.

The asset tag device A may scan for the wireless broadcasts and from respective beacon devices and during as scanning window. The scanning window may be a window of time during which a device such as asset tag device A scans for a wireless broadcast. The window of time may be any length of time. Scanning may occur once at intervals periodically or continuously as described herein. For example the scanning window may be 10 seconds and asset tag device A may perform a scan 3 times a minute. The wireless broadcasts received by asset tag device A may be from devices other than beacon device and . For example asset tag device A may receive wireless broadcasts from beacon devices in other areas or from devices using the same wireless communication protocol used by the beacon devices and . The asset tag device A may filter the scanned wireless broadcast to generate a subset of the wireless broadcasts based on signal strength of the wireless broadcast e.g. received signal strength indication RSSI and or an identifier indicating an unapproved device having transmitted the wireless broadcast. Additional details of the filtering will be discussed below with respect to . In one example generating a subset of the wireless broadcasts may include choosing the N number of devices with the highest wireless broadcast signal strength and disregarding the other received wireless broadcasts.

Asset tag device A may identify within the subset of the wireless broadcast at least one wireless broadcast in view of an indication that a beacon device having transmitted the wireless broadcast is within a specified distance from asset tag device A. Distance may refer to an actual measurable distance and or direction or may refer to a relative distance of one device to the asset tag relative to another device to the asset tag e.g. one device is closer to the asset tag than the other device . In one example the actual distance may be specified by for example an administrator. In one embodiment the indication that of the beacon device is within a specified distance is the signal strength of the wireless broadcast. In one example the asset tag device A determines the received signal strength indicator RSSI of each of wireless broadcast of the subset of the wireless broadcasts. The asset tag device A sorts the subset of wireless broadcasts by for example RSSI. RSSI may be a measurement of the power present in the received wireless broadcast. RSSI may serve as an indirect indication of a specified distance of a beacon device such as beacon device and or relative to asset tag device A. Asset tag device A may measure the RSSI of wireless broadcasts. From the sorted wireless broadcasts asset tag device A may identify the beacon devices closest in distance from the asset tag device A by choosing the wireless broadcast from a beacon device with the highest RSSI and another wireless broadcast from another beacon device and with the next highest RSSI. In one example when there is only wireless broadcasts received from one beacon device asset tag device A may choose the one beacon device without sorting the broadcasts. Additional details of the identifying will be discussed below with respect to .

Asset tag device A may parse the data packet to identify a beacon identifier from the identified wireless broadcasts. The parsing may be at least in part performed during the scanning or filtering. Alternatively the parsing may be performed after the scanning.

Asset tag device A may create a new data packet including a beacon identifier and an asset tag identifier associated with the asset. In one example the new packet may include the beacon identifier of beacon device the beacon identifier of beacon device and the asset tag identifier of asset tag device A. Asset tag device A may transmit the new data packet in wireless broadcast to hub . Hub may prepare and send the data to server also referred to as server computer system . In one example the Hub can prepare the data by aggregating data from multiple asset tag devices. In another example the Hub can prepare the data by reformatting the data into a format used by the server . In another example the Hub can prepare the data by reformatting data in different asset tag devices to have a common format. Server may use the data to determine information such as location information about asset . Although the wireless communication protocol used by the beacon devices i.e. beacon devices and and asset tag device A is described as being the same wireless communication protocol it should be appreciated that the beacon device beacon device and asset tag device A may transmit using the same and or different wireless communication protocol.

Beacon and or may transmit a wireless broadcast using an advertisement broadcast during windows of time or continuously. A window of time may be a fixed period of time during which a device e.g. beacon device performs an action such as transmitting a wireless broadcast. The broadcast may occur once at intervals or periodically. Alternatively beacon device and or may transmit a wireless broadcast using a response broadcast. For example asset tag device A can request information e.g. beacon identifiers from the surrounding beacon devices. In response beacon device and or may communicate the data to the asset tag device A using a response broadcast. In one embodiment the response broadcast is unicast to asset tag device A. In another example the beacon device and or may transmit an advertisement broadcast to devices located within a threshold radius relative to the beacon device s fixed location. Information such as beacon identifiers may be received by devices upon the device entering the associated radius. In another example beacon devices and or may serve as a checkpoint used to determine that an asset has passed the beacon device.

Beacon and have been described in connection with beacon device using the iBeacon technology for purposes of illustration rather than limitation. In other examples beacon device or may be an active radio frequency identification device RFID a passive RFID an infrared device a motion sensor sonar or sonic device and or a near field communication NFC device.

As described herein asset tag device A can be coupled to asset . The asset tag device A may communicate with at least the beacon devices and or hub sever repeaters not shown and or asset . In one example the asset tag device A may be coupled to an individual such as medical personnel in a hospital environment also referred to as facility . Asset tag device A may be attached to an employee identification badge or attached to or integrated into an electronic device such as a wristband or watch worn by the individual. In another example an asset tag manager B may be software integrated into a third party device such as a mobile phone or tablet. The asset tag manager B may leverage at least part of the hardware and or software resources of the third party device to perform the functions of an asset tag. In should also be appreciated that an asset tag manager B may be compatible with any device software platform and or operating system.

Asset tag device A may broadcast using an advertisement broadcast during a window of time or continuously. The broadcast may occur once at intervals or periodically. An asset tag device A may broadcast upon an occurrence of an event such as the creation of new data packet. Alternatively asset tag device A may broadcast using a response broadcast. For example hub may request information e.g. a data packet containing one or more beacon identifiers and or asset tag identifier from the surrounding asset tags. In response asset tag device A may communicate the information to the hub using a response broadcast. In one embodiment the response broadcast is unicast to hub . It should be appreciated that asset tag device A may broadcast to any device such as hub a repeater not shown or to server within the broadcast radius of asset tag device A.

Hub also referred to as a communication hub may refer to device that connects multiple electronic devices. Hub may include functionality of a conventional network hub as well as additional functionality. For example hub may receive filter analyze modify and or transmit data to and from multiple devices using wireless and or wired communication and or a combination thereof. Hub may transmit received data to multiple ports similar to a conventional network hub. Hub may perform functions of a network switch and may receive process and forward data only to a destination device that needs to receive it rather than broadcasting the data to each of its ports . Hub may also function as a wireless access point AP and allow wireless devices to connect using a wireless communication protocol e.g. the Wi Fi protocol . Hub may provide a hotspot a physical location offering internet access over a wireless local area network WLAN through the use of another device such as a router to connect to an internet service provider. Hub may also function as a router to forward data packets between multiple computer networks. Hub may perform software define networking SDN functions. For example hub may function similar to a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP server that may assign an internet protocol IP address to a device e.g. approved device attempting to use a network such as a network using the Wi Fi technology associated with hub . An internet protocol IP table may be configured to route data from devices within a range of IP addresses to one location and or through a particular channel or interface and route data from devices within another range of IP addressed to another location and or through another channel or interface .

In one embodiment hub may have one or more communication channels. A communication channel may refer to a transmission medium or a path provided by a transmission medium used to convey an information signal such as a data packet. Each communication channel may be a transmission medium for different communication protocols wired and or wireless communication protocols . Additionally several communication channels may be the transmission mediums for the same communication protocols. A communication channel may be wired and or wireless. Hub may include corresponding hardware and or software for each communication channel. For example hub may include several wireless communication channels using a wireless communication protocol conforming to a low energy PAN standard such as a Bluetooth protocol i.e. a channel conforming to the Bluetooth standard able to transmit and receive signals several wireless communication channels using a wireless communication protocol conforming to a wireless local area network WLAN standard such as the Wi Fi protocol as well as wireless communication channels conforming to other standards such as a cellular protocol and an Ethernet protocol. Hub may have an interface for each channel capable of transmitting and or receiving in the communication protocol associated with the channel. For example hub may include one or more separate antennas for each channel and or one or more integrated antennas. Hub may include a PAN antenna such as a Bluetooth antenna and or a WLAN antenna such as a Wi Fi antenna a wired Ethernet port and or a cellular antenna e.g. multiple input and multiple output MIMO antenna .

In one embodiment hub may receive data from multiple source devices filter and modify the data and send the modified data through a cellular network and or wired network e.g. local area network LAN . A cellular network e.g. mobile network may be a wireless network distributed over areas e.g. cells each served by at least one fixed location transceiver e.g. cell site or base station . Each cell may use a different set of frequencies from neighboring cells to avoid interference and provide bandwidth within each cell. The cellular network may use any mobile telecommunications technology such as third generation 3G fourth generation 4G and fifth generation 5G of mobile telecommunications technology. In another example hub may receive data in data packets conforming to a wireless communication protocol of a low energy wireless PAN standard such as the BLE and or conforming to a wireless communication protocol of a WLAN standard such as Wi Fi and transmit data to the server using cellular communication protocols on a cellular network. In another example hub may receive data in data packets conforming to the BLE and or Wi Fi and transmit data to another local server not shown using a wired Ethernet cable e.g. in a LAN .

In one embodiment hub may be located at a selected location within a facility such as on each floor of a hospital environment e.g. facility . Hub may be located at select locations in the hospital environment so as to provide communication coverage throughout the environment. In one example hub may be located in high traffic areas or along routes or paths that the asset may frequently move along. In another example the locations can be predefined locations selected during the construction of an environment. In another example the locations can be selected to provide a desired coverage area such as a wing of a hospital environment.

In one embodiment hub may provide a secure private network for devices such as server asset tag device A or asset to communicate with the hub . For example hub may provide a secure wireless area network WLAN secure PAN or Private Wide Area Network PWAN to communicate with a device such as an asset tag device A and or asset . In another example hub may be a gateway or access point for the asset and or asset tag device A to access information stored on the server . For example hub maybe a network switch enabling asset to access a secure server such as electronic medical records EMRs hospital information system HIS information or an active directory of a hospital server. The devices in the WLAN may use the Wi Fi technology and IEEE 802.11 standards defined by the Wi Fi Alliance. Alternatively the devices in the WLAN may use other technologies and standards. Similarly the devices in the PAN or WPAN may use the Bluetooth technology and IEEE 802.15 standards defined by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group. Alternatively the devices in the secure PAN may use other technologies and standards. The WAN or PWAN can be used to transmit data over long distances and between different LANs WLANs metropolitan area networks MANs or other localized computer networking architectures.

In one embodiment hub may be configured to transmit and receive data using one or more wireless communication protocols. For example hub may be configured to receive data via a BLE communication channel and or a Wi Fi communication channel from a device such as a repeater and communicate the data to server via a cellular communication channel or to a cloud based service. Hub may include a multiband antenna and or multiple antennas to communicate on the different communication channels.

In one embodiment hub may prepare data for transmission to another device such as server . For example hub may parse compressing secure e.g. encrypt and format the data for the consumption by server and or a cloud based storage device not shown .

In another embodiment hub may include a network compliance device configured to run a Health Level 7 HL7 engine. HL7 may refer to a set of international standards for transfer of clinical and administrative data between software applications used by various healthcare providers. HL7 may provide a framework for the exchange integration sharing and retrieval of data used by healthcare providers. The HL7 engine may format information to an HL7 electronic medical record EMR standard. HL7 may provide a framework for the exchange integration sharing and retrieval of electronic health information. Hub may use a HL7 formatting engine to aggregate data received format the data to an HL7 standard and communicate the formatted data to server .

Although not illustrated in an asset management system may also include repeaters. A repeater may refer to an electronic device that receives a signal and retransmits the signal often at a higher power. A repeater may receive a data packet from asset tag device A and relay the data to hub or another repeater. A repeater may also act as a bridge to receive data formatted in one wireless communication protocol e.g. a PAN protocol such as Bluetooth low energy and re transmit in another wireless communication protocol e.g. a WLAN protocol such as Wi Fi . The repeater may be used by device to tether e.g. using a PAN or WLAN protocol to the Internet. The repeaters may be configured as a network of repeaters such as nodes in a piconet. A piconet may be a wireless personal area network WPAN formed by a device e.g. Bluetooth device serving as a master in the piconet and one or more other devices e.g. other Bluetooth devices serving as slaves. For example a hospital may have multiple repeaters located at different locations in the hospital. The repeaters may receive data from asset tag device A beacon device and or beacon device and relay the data to hub . A repeater may relay the data directly to the hub or indirectly relay the data to hub via one or more other repeaters. In one embodiment each floor or department of a hospital environment may include a hub such as hub to receive information from one or more repeaters that provide wireless coverage of the floor. A repeater may be powered by a batter plugged a wall socket or powered by any other manner. A repeater may be a small form factor device such as the size of human child s fist.

Server may be a computing device such as server computer a desktop computer or a laptop computer or a portable computing device such as but not limited to mobile telephones personal digital assistants PDAs portable media players netbooks tablet computers portable gaming consoles portable televisions electronic book readers and the like. Although a single server e.g. server is illustrated in any number of servers may be present in an AMS.

Server may be a server computer that is part of an online infrastructure system. Examples of an online infrastructure include a cloud computing platform that may allow multiple users from multiple client systems to access different components or computer resources of the cloud computing platform. The online infrastructure may provide physical and or virtual resources such as access to services servers or other such resources to client systems. Examples of services or functionality provided by the online infrastructure may include but are not limited to access to data stored on storage devices provisioning of virtual machines software services physical servers etc.

Server may store process and or analyze data received from hub as well as beacon device and and asset tag device A. In one embodiment the server may use the beacon identifiers and asset tag identifiers to determine the real time location of an asset e.g. real time location system RTLS .

In one embodiment server may determine the location of asset from the beacon identifier of beacon device and or beacon device and the asset tag identifier. The server may also record a time stamp indicating when the beacon identifiers were received by asset tag device A. Server may store data mapping the location of a beacon device in a facility to a specific beacon identifier. Additionally sever may store additional data mapping an asset tag identifier to an asset. Accordingly the beacon identifier and asset tag identifier may be correlated using the mapping data to a location in an environment. The location may be the area and or include a location within area where the asset tag device A and associated asset are located e.g. the middle of area .

In one embodiment the server may include an application programming interface API such as a representational state transfer REST application program interface API interface to enable applications to retrieve and present data such as asset data and or management data to users. For example an application may include a user interface with a map of a facility. The application may access the asset data and or management data and determine the locations of one or more assets in the facility. The application may display the locations of the asset to a user. In another example the application may query or search the asset data and or management data to determine user requested data such as location information of an asset usage information of an asset and so forth.

In another embodiment server may receive battery data indicating battery usage information and or battery life information for an asset asset tag device A and or beacon devices and . Server may use the battery data to determine a trend in the amount of time a battery of the device may be used an estimated remaining battery life battery errors when to replace a battery and so forth. For example asset tag device A may receive a battery identifier in a wireless broadcast from beacon device and . When creating a data packet asset tag may include the battery identifier of each beacon device and or a battery identifier for asset tag device A. The battery data including the battery identifiers may be transmitted to hub . A battery identifier may include information such as remaining battery life battery consumption and or battery usage rate of an associated device.

In another embodiment data such as software updates or patches may be communicated from the server to a hub asset asset tag device A and or beacon devices and .

Asset tag device may include an external casing such as casing . Casing may be made of numerous materials such as a hard plastic or other polymer. Asset tag device may be a small form factor device the size of a quarter or less and weighing less than an ounce. The asset tag device may include an input output I O terminal to send and receive data. Additionally I O terminal may be used to recharge a rechargeable battery internal to asset tag device . The I O terminal may conform to the micro universal serial bus USB USB or other type of standard. The battery of asset tag device may also be recharged by wireless charging. Asset tag device may include electronic hardware such as a radio e.g. Bluetooth radio a processing device e.g. Microcontroller MCU an antenna and a battery. The asset tag device may also include memory either as part of the processing device and or a discrete component.

Method begins at block where processing logic executing the method scans during a scanning window for wireless broadcasts from beacon devices located at fixed locations. In one example the wireless broadcasts are advertisement broadcasts from beacon devices at different fixed locations. In another example the wireless broadcasts are response broadcasts. In another example the wireless broadcasts use a wireless communication protocol conforming to a low energy wireless personal area network standard. The wireless broadcast includes identifiers in a data packet. The scanning may performed processing logic of an asset tag coupled to an asset. Additional details of scanning are discussed above at least with respect to .

Method continues to block where processing logic filters the wireless broadcasts to generate a subset of the wireless broadcasts. The filtering may be based on signal strength of the wireless broadcast and or an identifier indicating an unapproved device having transmitted the wireless broadcast. The subset of the wireless broadcasts may be stored in a memory. In one example the subset of the wireless broadcasts may be limited to a fixed number of the wireless broadcasts for example 10 wireless broadcast. Limiting the number of the subset of the wireless broadcast may be at least in part influenced by the limited memory resources and or computational resources e.g. processing device of the asset tag. Additionally the number may be influenced by a sample size of wireless broadcasts that permit accurate location determination by the server. In one example the filtering is performed at least in part during the scanning. In another example the filtering may occur at least in part after the scanning. It should be noted that the wireless broadcasts may be cleared from memory prior to the next cycle of scanning performed by the asset tag. Additional details of filtering are discussed above at least with respect to and below with respect to .

Method continues to block where processing logic identifies within the subset of the wireless broadcasts a wireless broadcast e.g. first with a data packet. The wireless broadcast may be identified in view of an indication that the first beacon device is within a specified distance from to the asset tag the first beacon device having transmitted the wireless broadcast. The indication may be the signal strength of the wireless broadcast. The signal strength may indicate a relative distance e.g. relative to other wireless broadcasts from other devices of the beacon device from an asset tag. Additional details of identifying are discussed above at least with respect to and below with respect to .

Method continues to block where processing logic parses the data packet e.g. first to locate a beacon identifier e.g. first associated with a beacon device e.g. first . In one example the beacon identifier includes the major identifier and or minor identifier. It should be appreciated that the beacon identifier may be one or more different identifiers in data packet. The parsing may occur at least in part during the filtering. It should be appreciated that filtering may include parsing for example to find identifiers indicating an unapproved device. Additionally the parsing may be in part performed during the scanning or after the scanning. Additional details of filtering are discussed above at least with respect to and below with respect to .

Method continues to block where processing logic creates a data packet also referred to as second updated or new data packet including the beacon identifier e.g. first and an asset tag identifier associated with the asset. The asset tag identifier may be locally stored at the asset tag. It should also be appreciated that the data packet may be created to include additional data such as additional identifiers other beacon identifiers battery identifiers etc. In one example processing logic creates a data packet configured to be an advertisement broadcast. In another example processing logic may create a data packet configured for a response broadcast. Additional details of filtering are discussed above at least with respect to and below with respect to .

Method continues to block where processing logic transmits a wireless broadcast comprising the data packet e.g. second . The wireless broadcast may be received by a hub a repeater server and or other device. In one example the wireless broadcast may be an advertisement broadcast. In another example the wireless broadcast may be a response broadcast. The wireless broadcast may be for a window of time. The wireless broadcast may be in a wireless communication protocol conforming to a wireless communication protocol of a low energy wireless personal area network PAN standard. After transmitting the broadcast for a window of time processing logic may return to scanning as described at block . Additional details of transmitting are discussed above at least with respect to .

Method begins at block where processing logic executing the method identifies within the subset of the wireless broadcasts another wireless broadcast e.g. third with another data packet e.g. third . The wireless broadcast may be identified in view of an indication that another beacon device e.g. second beacon device is within a specified distance to the asset tag the beacon device having transmitted the wireless broadcast. The indication that another beacon device is within a specified distance may be the signal strength of the wireless broadcast. It should be noted that the identifying of block may performed as part of the identifying of block of method above. In one embodiment two or more beacon devices each at a fixed location may define an area. Additional details of filtering are discussed above at least with respect to and below with respect to .

Method continues to block where processing logic parses the data packet to locate another beacon identifier e.g. second associated with another beacon device e.g. second beacon device . Similar to method in one example the beacon identifier may include the major identifier and or minor identifier. It should be appreciated that the beacon identifier may be one or more different identifiers in data packet. The parsing may be part of the parsing described in block of method above. The parsing may occur at least in part during the filtering. It should be appreciated that filtering may include parsing for example to find identifiers indicating an unapproved device. Additionally the parsing may be in part performed during the scanning or after the scanning.

Method continues to block where processing logic creates the data packet e.g. second to further include the beacon identifier of the other beacon device. In another embodiment processing logic may create a separate data packet with the beacon identifier of the other beacon device and the asset tag identifier. It should also be appreciated that the data packet may be created to include additional data such as additional identifier other beacon identifier battery identifiers etc. In one example processing logic creates a data packet configured to be an advertisement broadcast. In another example processing logic may create a data packet configured for a response broadcast.

Method begins at block where processing logic executing the method compares a received signal strength indicator RSSI of the wireless broadcast to an RSSI threshold. Method continues to block where processing logic filters the wireless broadcast when the received signal strength indicator RSSI of the wireless broadcast is below the RSSI threshold. The RSSI threshold may be set by a developer. For example the RSSI threshold may be set to 110 dBm or any other value. Received wireless broadcasts with RSSI below the RSSI threshold may be from beacon devices from outside an area of interest and may not include data useful to determine location of the asset tag. Determining the RSSI may be additionally discussed in reference to .

Method continues to block where processing logic parses the data packet associated with the wireless broadcast for the identifiers when the received signal strength indicator RSSI of the wireless broadcast is equal to or above the RSSI threshold. It should be noted that the parsing may be performed as part of the parsing discussed above with respect to method and or method . It also should be noted that the parsing may performed with or without processing logic performing block and described above.

Method continues to block where processing logic filters the wireless broadcast when one or more of the parsed identifiers indicate the wireless broadcast is e.g. originated from the unapproved device. It should be appreciated that processing logic may receive wireless broadcasts from multiple sources. Processing logic may not only receive broadcasts from the beacon devices located in an area. Processing logic may receive broadcasts from other beacon device as well as devices transmitting data using the same wireless communication protocol that processing logic is scanning for. An unapproved device may include a device that is not a beacon device. As noted above wireless broadcasts may include multiple identifiers such as company identifiers source device information identifiers identifiers of other manufacturing specific data e.g. manufacturer identifier wireless broadcast identifier e.g. advertisement indicator identifier beacon identifier e.g. a major identifier ID minor identifier battery identifier etc. Processing logic may parse one or more identifiers and compare them to an approved list of identifiers. For example processing logic may parse the data packet to look for a company identifier and a manufacturing identifier. When at least one of the company identifier and manufacturing identifier do not match approved identifiers processing logic may determine the wireless broadcast is from an unapproved device and may be filtered. It should be appreciated than any identifier or combination of identifiers may be used as an indication that a wireless broadcast is from an unapproved device.

Processing logic may use signal strength as an indication that a beacon device having transmitting a wireless broadcast is within a specified distance from an asset tag. In the one embodiment the signal strength may be the RSSI a wireless broadcast.

Method begins at block where processing logic executing the method determines the received signal strength indicator RSSI of each wireless broadcast of the subset of the wireless broadcast. It should be appreciated that the determination of wireless broadcasts of the subset of wireless broadcast may be performed at least in part during filtering as discussed with respect to method and . In one embodiment the RSSI is determined e.g. measured by the device e.g. asset tag receiving the wireless broadcast. The device may include an indicator of RSSI e.g. the RSSI identifier indicating an RSSI value of the wireless broadcast in the data packet associated with the wireless broadcast. The RSSI identifier may include a value of the received signal strength.

Method continues to block where processing logic may sort the subset of the wireless broadcasts in view of a received signal strength indicator RSSI . For example the wireless may be sorted 1 through 10 starting with the wireless broadcast having the strongest RSSI and ending with the wireless broadcast with the weakest RSSI. Method continues to block where processing logic may select the wireless broadcast as the broadcast with the highest RSSI from the sorted wireless broadcasts. It should be noted that in some embodiments processing logic may determine the RSSI of the wireless broadcast of the subset of wireless broadcast and determine the wireless broadcast with the highest RSSI without sorting. Additional details of filtering are discussed above at least with respect to .

In another embodiment processing logic may use signal strength to identify the two or more beacon devices closest distance from the asset tag. Processing logic may determine the RSSI of wireless broadcasts for two or more beacon devices. Processing logic may sort the subset of the wireless broadcasts in view of a received signal strength indicator RSSI . For example the wireless may be sorted 1 through 10 starting with the wireless broadcast having the strongest RSSI and ending with the wireless broadcast with the weakest RSSI. As described above with respect to block processing logic may select the wireless broadcast with the highest RSSI which would be from the first beacon device. To find the second beacon device defining the area processing logic may select the wireless broadcast with the highest RSSI from a beacon device different from the first beacon device. The same process may to find the wireless broadcasts when more than two beacon devices. Processing logic may identify and differentiate beacon devices using the beacon identifier such as major identifier and minor identifier contained in the received data packets.

In one embodiment data packet may include a fixed beacon prefix e.g. EmPulse prefix . Data packet may include a proximity UUID identifier. In one example an asset tag may scan for beacon devices with a UUID assigned to beacon devices fixed to a known location. In another example an asset tag may filter out beacon devices based on manufacturing specific information e.g. identifiers and or device names.

In one embodiment a data packet from a beacon device may include a major identifier e.g. number and or a minor identifier e.g. number . In one example the major identifier is used to group a related set of beacon devices. The major identifier may be 2 bytes such as 0x0049 or 73. In another example beacon devices for an area floor entity etc. may use the same major identifier. The minor identifier may be used to identify individual beacon devices. A minor identifier may be 2 bytes such as 0x000A or 10. In one example each beacon device in an AMS system may have different minor identifiers. An asset tag may include the received major identifier and minor identifier in a data packet to a hub server. The sever may use the data to determine a location of an asset. In example the major identifier and or minor identifier may be serialized numbers independent from the relationship between beacon devices or locations of beacon devices. Another device such as a sever may keep a record of the serial number of a beacon device and the corresponding location of the beacon device and use the record to determine location of an asset.

In another embodiment a data packet may include a signal strength identifier such as a transmit TX power identifier. In one example the TX power identifier may indicate a transmit power of the beacon device transmitting a wireless broadcast. For example the transmit power identifier may be 0xC5 197 where 2 s complement 256 197 59 dBm. An asset tag may determine a distance e.g. proximity between the beacon device and the asset tag by comparing received signal power e.g. RSSI with the transmit power identifier. The asset tag may determine a distance between the beacon device and the asset tag as the distance causing the transmit power to decrease to the received signal power. In another embodiment the signal strength identifier may be an RSSI.

The exemplary computer system includes a processing device processor a main memory e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM such as synchronous DRAM SDRAM or Rambus DRAM RDRAM etc. a static memory e.g. flash memory static random access memory SRAM etc. and a data storage device which communicate with each other via a bus .

Processing device represents one or more general purpose processing devices such as a microprocessor central processing unit microcontroller or the like. More particularly the processing device may be a complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor reduced instruction set computing RISC microprocessor very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor or a processor implementing other instruction sets or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. The processing device may also be one or more special purpose processing devices such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a digital signal processor DSP network processor or the like. The processing device is configured to execute instructions for performing the operations and steps discussed herein.

The computer system may further include a network interface device . The computer system also may include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a cathode ray tube CRT or a touch screen an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse and a signal generation device e.g. a speaker .

The data storage device may include a machine readable storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software including asset tag manager B embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processing device during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processing device also constituting computer readable storage media. The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

While the machine readable storage medium is shown in an exemplary implementation to be a single medium the term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium can also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure. The term computer readable storage medium can accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical media and magnetic media.

In the foregoing description numerous details are set forth. It can be apparent however to one of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form rather than in detail in order to avoid obscuring the present disclosure.

Some portions of the detailed description have been presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those that may use physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as scanning filtering identifying parsing creating transmitting comparing sorting selecting or the like refer to the actions and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Although the operations of the methods herein are shown and described in a particular order the order of the operations of each method may be altered so that certain operations may be performed in an inverse order or so that certain operation may be performed at least in part concurrently with other operations. In another embodiment instructions or sub operations of distinct operations may be in an intermittent and or alternating manner. The terms first second third fourth etc. as used herein are meant as labels to distinguish among different elements and may not necessarily have an ordinal meaning according to their numerical designation.

The disclosure also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may include a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions.

The words example or exemplary are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as example or exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the words example or exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X includes A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X includes A X includes B or X includes both A and B then X includes A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Moreover use of the term an embodiment or one embodiment or an implementation or one implementation throughout is not intended to mean the same embodiment or implementation unless described as such.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus the appearances of the phrase in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. 

It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many other implementations can be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading and understanding the above description. The scope of the disclosure should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

