---

title: Systems and methods for using spatial and temporal analysis to associate data sources with mobile devices
abstract: Various embodiments of the present technology generally relate to data delivery. More specifically, some embodiments of the present technology relate to systems and methods for using spatial and temporal analysis to associate data sources with mobile devices. The delivery of data to support a wide variety of services for and about mobile devices that are based on data stored in corporate, commercial, and government databases which is not currently linked to individual mobile devices. Some embodiments allow advertisers to better target their ads to relevant target audience with greater accuracy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09654919&OS=09654919&RS=09654919
owner: MOBILE TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION, LLC
number: 09654919
owner_city: Boulder
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160217
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 731 281 filed Jun. 4 2015 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 439 033 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 509 390 filed Oct. 8 2014 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 087 346 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 888 950 filed Oct. 9 2013 all of which are incorporated in their entirety herein by reference for all purposes.

Various embodiments of the present technology generally relate to data delivery. More specifically some embodiments of the present technology relate to systems and methods for using spatial and temporal analysis to associate data sources with mobile devices.

Various embodiments of the present technology generally relate to data delivery. More specifically some embodiments of the present technology relate to systems and methods for using spatial and temporal analysis to associate data sources with mobile devices. The delivery of data to support a wide variety of services for and about mobile devices that are based on data stored in corporate commercial and government databases which is not currently linked to individual mobile devices. Some embodiments allow advertisers to better target their ads to relevant target audience with greater accuracy.

Some embodiments use location data records from websites mobile ad networks mobile applications and or networks with sensors located in malls airports transportation terminals hotels offices medical offices elevators etc. This location data can be used to build location profiles that can be linked to residential addresses through a series of analytical processes. Once a mobile device is associated with a residential address any database that contains a residential address as a data element can be associated with the mobile device to build enhanced services that can be delivered to the mobile device or can be used to provide services that need information on locations and conditions using mobile devices in an area to build that profile.

In various embodiments the system may also have the ability to group devices into social networks based on analysis of location data overlap for a single location entered into the system or multiple locations autonomously identified by the system. These social networks can be further analyzed using the corresponding data elements in the linked databases to refine the social networks based on common characteristics found in the data.

Embodiments of the present technology also include computer readable storage media containing sets of instructions to cause one or more processors to perform the methods variations of the methods and other operations described herein.

While multiple embodiments are disclosed still other embodiments of the present technology will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which shows and describes illustrative embodiments of the technology. As will be realized the technology is capable of modifications in various aspects all without departing from the scope of the present technology. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not restrictive.

The drawings have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements in the figures may be expanded or reduced to help improve the understanding of the embodiments of the present technology. Similarly some components and or operations may be separated into different blocks or combined into a single block for the purposes of discussion of some of the embodiments of the present technology. Moreover while the technology is amenable to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and are described in detail below. The intention however is not to limit the technology to the particular embodiments described. On the contrary the technology is intended to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the technology as defined by the appended claims.

Various embodiments of the present technology generally relate to data delivery. More specifically some embodiments of the present technology relate to systems and methods for using spatial and temporal analysis to associate data sources with mobile devices. Some embodiments enable the delivery of data to support a wide variety of services for and about mobile devices that are based on data stored in corporate commercial and government databases which is not currently linked to individual mobile devices accurately. One application of this technology is to allow advertisers to better target their ads to relevant target audience with greater accuracy. The technology uses location data records from mobile ad networks mobile applications and hundreds of networks with sensors located in malls airports transportation terminals hotels offices medical offices elevators etc. This location data can be used to build location profiles that can be linked to residential addresses through a series of analytical processes.

Once a mobile device is associated with a residential address any database that contains a residential address as a data element can be associated with the mobile device to build enhanced services that can be delivered to the mobile device or can be used to provide services that need information on locations and conditions using mobile devices in an area to build that profile. This information can also be used to build social networks identifying individuals with common interests associations and social dynamics to provide additional insight into the mobile user.

A substantial amount of data on each individual and household is stored in corporate retailer government and marketing databases. This data can include any type of data collected today demographic data psychographic data behavioral data purchase data interest data crime data occupation data registration data survey data medical data and more. This data can be used for a variety of purposes that include advertising marketing location studies public safety healthcare and more. There are many technologies for capturing location data from mobile devices and building historical location profiles associated with a device.

The challenge is linking the mobile device to an individual or household so that the data from these existing databases which are typically keyed by name and address can be used to provide enhanced services to the users of mobile devices and expand services for advertisers businesses and government leveraging location data from mobile devices. Even where these commercial and government databases have a mobile telephone number in the database these are still not easily linked to mobile devices for the delivery of other services. Mobile applications and services only have access to device ID keys mobile data network ID keys Wi Fi network keys Bluetooth IDs cookies and software defined persistent and transient device identifiers that do not exist in those databases.

Identifying the household address associated with a mobile device can be done by mobile carriers from their billing and provisioning databases but this information is not made available to other service providers and government agencies. To provide enhanced services these commercial and government agencies need an alternative solution that can accurately identify a mobile devices household address to link to their data that does not rely on mobile carrier data or databases.

One of the leading trends in marketing is social based marketing through the use of social networks with the intent of reaching like minded consumers based on their common social interests and affiliations. Unfortunately the ability to reach these audiences is controlled by a few large social networking companies that dictate the way that advertisers can reach and interact with these consumers. Mobile devices provide tremendous reach for advertisers and being able to reach social networks and interest groups independent of these large social networking companies provides new ways to advertise and interact with these consumers. It is especially powerful if these social networks and interest groups can be linked to the commercial and marketing data associated with these consumers allowing richer analytics to be performed on these groups and enabling predictive modeling to find similar types of customers.

The challenge is trying to identify the mobile devices in a social group or interest group. Mobile advertising networks mobile apps and mobile websites have billions of records associated with mobile transactions that can be mined to create these social networks graphs that link devices and hence the individuals together. Various embodiments of the present technology provide a solution to this challenge.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present technology. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the present technology may be practiced without some of these specific details.

Moreover the techniques introduced here can be embodied as special purpose hardware e.g. circuitry as programmable circuitry appropriately programmed with software and or firmware or as a combination of special purpose and programmable circuitry. Hence embodiments may include a machine readable medium having stored thereon instructions that may be used to program a computer or other electronic devices to perform a process. The machine readable medium may include but is not limited to optical discs compact disc read only memories CD ROMs magneto optical discs ROMs random access memories RAMs erasable programmable read only memories EPROMs electrically erasable programmable read only memories EEPROMs application specific integrated circuits ASICs magnetic or optical cards flash memory or other type of media machine readable medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.

Brief definitions of terms abbreviations and phrases used throughout this application are given below.

The terms connected or coupled and related terms are used in an operational sense and are not necessarily limited to a direct physical connection or coupling. Thus for example two devices may be coupled directly or via one or more intermediary media or devices. As another example devices may be coupled in such a way that information can be passed therebetween while not sharing any physical connection with one another. Based on the disclosure provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate a variety of ways in which connection or coupling exists in accordance with the aforementioned definition.

The phrases in some embodiments according to some embodiments in the embodiments shown in other embodiments and the like generally mean the particular feature structure or characteristic following the phrase is included in at least one implementation of the present technology and may be included in more than one implementation. In addition such phrases do not necessarily refer to the same embodiments or different embodiments.

If the specification states a component or feature may can could or might be included or have a characteristic that particular component or feature is not required to be included or have the characteristic.

The term module or engine refers broadly to general or specific purpose hardware software or firmware or any combination thereof components. Modules and engines are typically functional components that can generate useful data or other output using specified input s . A module or engine may or may not be self contained. Depending upon implementation specific or other considerations the modules or engines may be centralized or functionally distributed. An application program also called an application may include one or more modules and or engines or a module and or engine can include one or more application programs.

For example data delivery platform can use location data records from websites mobile ad networks mobile applications and hundreds of networks with sensors located in malls airports transportation terminals hotels offices medical offices elevators etc. This location data can be used to build location profiles that can be linked to residential addresses through a series of analytical processes. Using this information a customized profile can be built around the mobile device.

User devices A N can be any computing device capable of receiving user input as well as transmitting and or receiving data via the network . In one embodiment user devices A N can be any device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA mobile telephone smartphone wearable computing device e.g. including eyewear watches etc. tablet or similar device. User devices A N can be configured to communicate via network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and wireless communication systems. In one embodiment network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. Thus network may include links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc.

Similarly the networking protocols used on network may include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and file transfer protocol FTP . Data exchanged over network may be represented using technologies and or formats including hypertext markup language HTML or extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec .

The various components illustrated in can be coupled to network using various types of network communication mechanisms. These network communication mechanisms may communicate with other electronic devices by transmitting and receiving wireless signals using licensed semi licensed or unlicensed spectrum over network . In some cases network may be comprised of multiple networks even multiple heterogeneous networks such as one or more border networks voice networks broadband networks service provider networks Internet Service Provider ISP networks and or Public Switched Telephone Networks PSTNs interconnected via gateways operable to facilitate communications between and among the various networks. Network can also include third party communications networks such as a Global System for Mobile GSM mobile communications network a code time division multiple access CDMA TDMA mobile communications network a 3rd or 4th generation 3G 4G mobile communications network e.g. General Packet Radio Service GPRS EGPRS Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS or Long Term Evolution LTE network or other communications networks.

In some cases the system collects mobile device data. This mobile device data may include event data such as but not limited to the following mobile network call data mobile data network registration and usage mobile device location data mobile device browsing and web data transaction data mobile application data social media data purchase data login data device sensor data credit card data etc. The mobile device event data can include one or more the following fields 1 a device identifier such as UDID MAC address cookie or any other permanent or semi permanent identifier 2 location information typically in Latitude and Longitude or addresses 3 a timestamp that includes date and time in minutes and seconds. Note that not all data has to contain a timestamp to provide basic matching. A timestamp may be used in some embodiment to cross match data sources with different device identifiers.

The mobile device event data can be clustered by location device identifiers and time of day. These clusters are then evaluated against household address data. This address data is then used to link the mobile device ID with the other databases. As part of this process the system anonymizes the data to provide enhance security for the gathered and linked data and ensure that Personally Identifiable Information PII is not disclosed to anyone. As part of the process anonymous IDs can be created so that PII is never disclosed when the data is used by the customer applications.

As illustrated in the system can collect raw mobile device data and commercial corporate and governmental data on individuals from a variety of partners. This data can be processed by the system in and used to create a System Data Warehouse that contains PII as a key. The system can output the data warehouse into a system file that can be transmitted to other parties including Independent Data Processors.

Similarly Partners such as Ad networks also collect customer information from customers of partner services applications websites etc. as well as registered users of these partner services which can similarly be accumulated into the Ad Network Data Warehouse. The Ad Network Data Warehouse can also use the PII as a key. The Ad Network Data Warehouse can also be output as a Partner File for transmission to Independent Data Processors.

The Independent Data Processor takes the System File and Partner File and compares the PII keys. The Independent data processor creates an output file that contains combined records from the System File and the Partner File only for records with matching PII keys from both files. In some embodiments if a record with a PII key is unique to only one of the files it is not included in the output. The merged file is then transmitted to the Ad Network Partner for use. In various embodiments the system can ensure that no PII data is shared with either the System or the Ad Network Partner for individuals that are not already known to them.

As illustrated in the system collects raw mobile device data and commercial corporate and governmental data on individuals from a variety of partners. This data is processed by the system in and used to create a System Data Warehouse that contains PII as a key. The system then processes the System Data Warehouse through an anonymization process that removes or modifies the PII with data that cannot be directly linked to the PII. One way of doing this is some sort of one way hashing algorithm so that data cannot be converted back to the original PII by anyone but other methods that include matching tables used internally to the System to map PII to non PII data could be used but are far less secure since the matching tables themselves are potentially vulnerable. The Anonymized data can be stored for example in a real time accessible System Mobile Data Mart.

When a Publisher Website or mobile app makes a request to a Partner Ad Server the Ad Server in turn makes a request to the System Target Data Engine with provides an external interface to the System Data Mart. The System Target Data Engine takes the anonymous key passed in by the Ad Server and looks up the data in the System Mobile Data Mart. The data returned by the System Data Mart is transmitted to the Ad Server which in turn uses the data to make decisions on what ad to return to the Publisher.

Various embodiments of the system for linking mobile device data with other databases using spatial and temporal analysis can includes one or more of the following components and processing algorithms which can be executed on commercially available servers using real or virtual servers organized into server clusters. In accordance with various embodiments the system may perform one or more of the following seven functions 

Mobile device location event data can be transmitted to the system in batch file format or in real time via Application Program Interfaces APIs provided to the data suppliers. Batch files transferred to the system use standard secure File Transfer Protocol FTP technology. Real time transfers are done per event and use Application Program Interfaces APIs built using the WS02 open source platforms. The APIs may be built using JavaScript Object Notation JSON and provide a way for the partner to transmit data to the platform while requesting data. In some embodiments the elements transmitted for any mobile device location record via the batch file or AP may contain at a minimum 

The mobile event data can be considered PII because it contains a unique identifier for each mobile device. While it can be transmitted to the system from the data provider in the clear typically the mechanism involves a secured connection and the Mobile Device ID data is encoded using an agreed upon obfuscation algorithm such as hashing prior to sending the data to the system. Once data is received by the system it ensures that all Mobile Device IDs are obfuscated prior to being stored in the system databases and used for processing. This obfuscation can be performed for example by the data provider prior to transmission or by the receiving system using a SHA 1 hashing algorithm which is a one way hash that cannot be reversed back to the original data. Any other comparable one way hashing or encoding algorithm could be substituted for the SHA 1 algorithm.

The incoming mobile event data is processed through a series of filters that organize data in the system by the Mobile Device IDs. The data can be organized so that it can be processed in different priorities or evaluated differently during subsequent processing. These filters can include but are not limited to the following 

Once the mobile event data has been processed through the filters and stored in the database it is ready for location analysis. Location analysis is the process by which the system analyzes all of the filtered mobile event location data associated with an individual device to identify the locations most frequently associated with the mobile device. This processing uses a Density Based Scan algorithm to group these data points and find the central location of these groups of data points. Note that any other type of grouping algorithm could be employed.

The Density Based Scan can consider each mobile location record latitude longitude pair as a single point for clustering analysis. Clustering is performed for each Device ID using various algorithms. The algorithms may use the following two parameters 

The algorithm may identify clusters of points that meet the density requirement of the MinPts within the Eps. Each data point can then be categorized. Some embodiments use the following categories 

The result of cluster processing may be a list that contains the core point locations and number of data points associated with the location. These locations can then be ordered from highest to lowest frequency based on the number of data points associated with the location. The location generated is a geo location coordinate using latitude and longitude although any location reference system could be used.

Once the mobile event data has been processed and the resulting list of locations is generated for each device these locations can be used in one of two ways to associate with data sources 1 the location identifier e.g. latitude longitude associated with the pair can be compared with location identifiers stored with the data sources. If the data source uses a street address and does not include a location identifier then as part of the input data processing for these sources the system will generate a location identifier that can be used for comparison. 2 The second method is to convert the locations generated for each device to street addresses e.g. 123 Main Street Anytown Colo. 80301 using commercially available reverse geocoding services or databases. This processing seeks to identify two primary addresses for each device 

The quality of the address returned by the commercial reverse geocoding services varies widely trying to return the closest street address to the geocode passed in. These addresses are then compared with the addresses used as keys in the commercial databases that contain the profile information. In some embodiments the system analyzes the returned address against the commercial databases and categorizes it into one of the following categories 

These categories can be used to rate the quality of the match returned and improve the quality of the data being provided. These categories can also be used to rate the quality of location data points created from street addresses when creating location data points from street addresses for commercial data sources in the system.

Once the residential address associated with a device has been identified it can be linked to data provided in any database that uses this as a key element. These data bases can be commercial business marketing government law enforcement healthcare or any other database containing household or individual information.

Matching devices with this household and individual data using the residential address will result in a one to one match for households with only one person or a many to many match for households with multiple individuals at a multiple individual household there will be many devices associated with the address that need to be matched to the individuals in the household. For a multi family unit such as an apartment building there will be multiple devices matched to the address that must then be first matched with a specific household in the residence and then in turn to the individuals within the specific household. While it is useful to make a device match at the household level it is even more desirable to be able to identify the devices associated with a single individual within a household or to identify households within a multi family residential unit.

To match devices to individuals within a household or multi family residence an analysis of the non residential location clusters associated with each device ID can be used. The easiest is the identification of individuals within a household. The system uses external data sources that provide data for each individual in a household that may be used to correlate with the characteristics of a location cluster. These data sources can be marketing data providers online databases such as LinkedIn and Hoover s. Point of Interest databases or other databases that contain information relevant to a location that can be associated with the location cluster that may be useful in comparing with known data on the individual such as interests hobbies recreational activities purchases etc.

By comparing the data associated with the non residential locations generated for each device with the known data for an individual is possible to uniquely identify the individual associated with a device. Similarly age information can compared with location records that correspond with schools to uniquely identify other family members. Throughout this process devices can be associated with the individual members of a household and by virtue of elimination can potentially be linked to individuals where a direct data match is not achieved. The identification of individuals is particularly important for services that are prohibited from measuring tracking analyzing or serving children.

The identification of individuals within a multi family residential address is performed in a similar manner with one enhancement. Additional processing is performed first to identify the devices associated with each household in a multi family residence. This processing uses overlap analysis of the data for each mobile device to determine which devices have a large number of locations in common indicating the individuals for these devices are frequently together as members of a household are. Once devices are identified with households the same processing used to identify individuals within households can be performed to identify individuals.

Some sources of mobile event data provide data that comes only from commercial or public locations and does not include any residential locations after processing. In order to match the mobile device IDs associated with this non residential data NR data back to the residential based data sources the data can be linked to other IDs that are already linked to those data sources.

This process can use an overlap analysis of the event location and timestamp data from the NR data against the event location and timestamp data from the linked sources. In some embodiments this analysis can build probable matches based on number of overlapping occurrences and also allows variation in timing of events from the different sources since finding exact matches is rare.

This process is repeated with existing NR data using different parameters or as new NR data is acquired and as new residential data is acquired to improve the results and obtain the highest quality matches possible. Once a match is obtained all of the household and individual data that was linked to the residential data device ID can now be linked to the NR data device ID also.

This process can be performed for any device data that does not include residential locations such as public Wi Fi data Blue tooth data Digital Out of Home sensor data in store sensor data etc.

Unique groupings of devices can be created through additional location and data analysis. These social networks identified can be sold as unique audiences that are used to reach socially connected groups without having to rely on traditional social network sites such as Facebook to provide the data. The additional value of the groups created by the system analysis is that these are real life groups that socialize in person not just online groups that may be virtual only.

Various embodiments may use various methods for identifying social network groups 1 for a specific input location or location date time or 2 autonomous multi location based groups. Each type of group has different benefits to advertisers. Specific location based groups tend to be larger groups that identify macro audiences such as audiences that show interest in a particular kind of sporting event entertainment or type of retail category. Multi location groups are smaller groups that exhibit more interest characteristics in common providing a more focused audience.

In accordance with some embodiments the processing to identify a social network group from a set of mobile device location or event data can include the following steps 

The processing to identify a social network group by the system autonomously is a bit more involved due to the amount of data that must be processed. The steps to create the social network group autonomously in accordance with one or more embodiments can include 

The system can also augment the social networks by overlaying the data from the linked databases to provide characterization of the social groups as well as further segment them by these criteria to create subgroups. This process can be repeated using different time segments and or new or modified data to improve results identify changes and increase the confidence level of the quality of the social groups identified.

Once the mobile devices have been linked to households and individuals within the various databases it can be delivered to consumer applications for a variety of commercial public safety and other uses. Consumer in this case specifies any mobile web based or other type of application that uses the data to provide a service based on that data. The first implementation supports ad targeting for mobile ad networks by delivering interest data to those networks but can be used for any application that is based on using mobile devices or location information.

The service can provide real time or historical information from databases to the consumer application. These applications can receive the data from the system as a file transfer or a web based synchronous or asynchronous service based on JSON or other similar protocols. The two primary modes of providing data to the consumer application are 1 device specific requests and 2 location requests.

A device specific request is designed to return household or individual information associated with a specific device. For this service the consumer application passes the system a mobile device ID properly encrypted or obfuscated and the service returns a set of anonymized data associated with that device ID.

A location request can take two forms but in each the consumer application passes in a location usually in latitude longitude format that it is requesting information from the system. The first type of location request generates a combined response for all mobile devices that are within a certain radius of the location. The second generates an individual level response for all the devices within a certain radius of the location. For both types of requests the system uses real time mobile event data to identify the mobile device IDs near the requested location.

The combined response request builds an aggregated view of all the devices. This is often used for marketing type of services where they are looking for the characteristics of the group. In this response the system combines the data for each data field to be returned and provides a weighed percentage of the values in each data field. For example if one of the data fields was male and there were 10 devices identified near the location with 3 that linked to data that marked the field as yes then the system would return a response to the consumer application that tells it how many total devices and that male is 30 .

The individual response request can build an array of all the data by individual device and passes this back to the consumer application. This allows the consumer application to look at each individual s data separately. It is important to note that the system may or may not return the encoded device ID as part of this service.

The system does not serve advertisements. In order to provision the data for online advertising use and deliver targeted offers to consumers the system shares aggregated Buyer Audience Data i.e. Furniture Buyers with selected Ad Serving Publishing or Ad Network partners as described below. There are 4 ways this can be done.

The system provides data to an Independent Data Processor to be the third party partner to perform a Personally Identifiable Information PII based database match with other NAI Members. Typically some or all of the following fields are used for matching Mobile number Device ID MAC address name address.

The process for matching the data according to some embodiments is summarized in the following steps and is shown in 

During the match the Independent Data Processor appends System Buyer Audience level information to Partner s file where there is a PII match. After the match occurs all non matching information can be discarded.

System Match Set is transmitted from Data Processor to Partner s Data Store where it will be provisioned for digital advertising.

Partner ad delivery is done based on anonymous ids and not on personally identifiable information such as UDID or any id associated with personally identifiable information. In order to be able to use the above match set for targeting purposes on Partner network a forward hashing technique transforming PII ID s into ANONYMOUS ID s occurs.

Data keyed off ANONYMOUS IDs and PII IDs are kept in separate operational environments and do not co locate by policy.

As described before each user active on the Partner network may have at least one Partner anonymous identifiers ANONYMOUS IDs associated with them. Partner ad delivery system can delivers ads based off this identifier ANONYMOUS ID. Whenever a user is on a Partner network the ad delivery request from the browser request will be associated with the user ANONYMOUS ID. That browser request can be fulfilled by Partner.

Ads using System data are delivered when the ad delivery system sees a user with defined System Attribute 1 set specified for that particular campaign.

The System can integrate with partner Ad Servers and Ad Networks such that at the time a request is made within their Ad Serving platform to Get Offer i.e. display an advertisement the Ad Serving platform will make a request of the System Target Data Engine. During this call to System s Recommendation Engine the Ad Server supplies System with a mobile device identifier such as a hashed UDID or a location. The system can then return the audience data that is relevant for this device or location. The Ad Server will then use the audience data provided by System to select an ad to display. This is shown in .

The Audience Data response tag will have a different format for a device vs. location request. Either type of response can be one of these 3 types script image or i frame. Each partner will provide System with the required format syntax for their response tag.

The device request response will simply return the targeting information for the hashed device ID sent in the request along with the audience categories that the device belongs to. An example of a response would be 

This response above returns three audience segments for the device ID requested and the ad network can now select an ad based on this.

A location request response can return the targeting data for an aggregated audience at a specific location. For example if System finds 100 people near the location coordinates passed in the request it will identify that 10 are in D045 1 is in C001 and 25 are in C004 audiences. The response would look something like 

This provides the partner with the total audience size and the audience size by category so they can decide on quantity vs. quality for their ad decision.

The system can integrate with our partner Ad Servers and Ad Networks such that we send them targeting data for every known Audience member in the System database. This can be transmitted periodically using the same type of response format as in Option 2 or as a file transfer using secure FTP.

The previous discussion centered on transmitting System standard audiences to the partner. System can also build and provision custom audiences for a partner. For example if an advertiser wants to show their ad to Hispanic Furniture buyers with income between 100 000 and 150 000. These traits correspond to the System s standard audiences D047 Hispanic D104 Income 100 150 and C001 Furniture . System can run an offline process to build a custom audience P1001 that has all of these traits already analyzed so that when the System reports back to the ad server in its response the ad server would just have to look at P1001 to see if it should show that advertiser s ad rather than trying to cross check all the criteria in real time especially if there is a large amount of selection criteria.

To do this the ad network would have to notify System of the ad campaign in advance and provide the advertiser s criteria so that the System could provision the audience. Goal for time to provision is 

To provide additional value to customers a number of interactive reporting tools can be made available via a website mobile device computer or other platform. These reporting tools include but are not limited to 

The data from multiple mobile event data sources results in rapidly building a very large set of mobile device IDs that can be linked back to a myriad of data sources. While most applicable to smartphones and tablet devices that are large consumers of mobile data services today it will eventually encompass the entire mobile device population as consumers adopt these devices over the next few years.

By providing information on the individuals associated with the mobile device the system enables a number of different solutions to be built that include but are not limited to 

These are just a few of the applications because every business and government agency has a wealth of data that they use today and would like to associate with mobile devices and users to expand their utility.

Embodiments of the present technology include various steps and operations which have been described above. A variety of these steps and operations may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in machine executable instructions which may be used to cause a general purpose or special purpose processor programmed with the instructions to perform the steps. Alternatively the steps may be performed by a combination of hardware software and or firmware. As such is an example of a computer system with which embodiments of the present technology may be utilized. Computer system is an example of a means for implementing the functionality and performing several of the operations described above. According to the present example the computer system includes a bus at least one processor at least one communication port a main memory a removable storage media a read only memory and a mass storage .

Processor s can be any known processor such as but not limited to Intel lines of processors AMD lines of processors or Motorola lines of processors. Communication port s can be any of an RS 232 port for use with a modem based dialup connection a 60 100 Ethernet port or a Gigabit port using copper or fiber. Communication port s may be chosen depending on a network such as a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or any network to which the computer system connects.

Main memory can be Random Access Memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device s commonly known in the art. Read only memory can be any static storage device s such as Programmable Read Only Memory PROM chips for storing static information such as instructions for processor .

Mass storage can be used to store information and instructions. For example hard disks such as the Adaptec family of SCSI drives an optical disc an array of disks such as RAID such as the Adaptec family of RAID drives or any other mass storage devices may be used.

Bus communicatively couples processor s with the other memory storage and communication blocks. Bus can be a PCI PCI X or SCSI based system bus depending on the storage devices used.

Removable storage media can be any kind of external hard drives floppy drives solid state storage drives cloud storage systems IOMEGA Zip Drives Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM Compact Disc Re Writable CD RW and or Digital Video Disk Read Only Memory DVD ROM .

The components described above are meant to exemplify some types of possibilities. In no way should the aforementioned examples limit the scope of the technology as they are only exemplary embodiments.

Embodiments of the present technology may be implemented using a combination of one or more modules or engines. For example embodiments provide for a graphical user interface generation module to generation one or more graphical user interface screens to convey results information and take instructions a general purpose or special purpose communications module for interfacing with various components and databases a data gathering module to collect information from various sources an anonymization module to anonymize data a rating module to rate the quality of a residential match a linking module to link an address to a mobile device social graph module to group devices based on one or more spatial and temporal analyzes a reporting module to generate device and location reports as well as other modules and engines for providing various functionality needed by embodiments of the present technology. Still yet various embodiments may incorporate two or more of these modules into a single module and or associate a portion of the functionality of one or more of these modules with a different module. Each of these modules and engines provides examples of the means for implementing functionality and performing operations described herein.

Various modifications and additions can be made to the embodiments discussed without departing from the scope of the present technology. For example while the embodiments described above refer to particular features the scope of this technology also includes embodiments having different combinations of features and embodiments that do not include all of the described features. Accordingly the scope of the present technology is intended to embrace all such alternatives modifications and variations and all equivalents thereof.

