---

title: Method and system for optimizing operations of exterior lights
abstract: The present disclosure relates to a method and system for optimizing operations of the exterior lights for a site of a plurality of distributed sites. The operations of the exterior lights are optimized by the lighting control system, which receive data associated with lights from at least one site of the plurality of distributed sites, wherein the data is one of exterior light data or combination of exterior and interior light data. Further, the data received from at least one site is processed in a pre-defined format to identify the current logic and the optimum logic of operation of the exterior lights. The method further identifies one or more deviations and the causes of the deviations in the operation of exterior lights to optimize the operation of the exterior lights.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09655208&OS=09655208&RS=09655208
owner: WIPRO LIMITED
number: 09655208
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20160315
---
The present subject matter is related in general to control of lighting system more particularly but not exclusively to a method and system for optimizing the operations of exterior lights for a site of a plurality of distributed sites.

In the present day business must adapt to new technologies in order to accommodate changing market conditions and customer needs. In order to stay in the developing competitive environment the organisation has to monitor the environment for better opportunities. This includes searching for viable ways for minimizing the operating expenses in the business need. One of the dominant operating needs for the industries is energy consumption. With an increase in diversity of types of controls and technologies and expansion of scale across geographies management of the exterior lights operation has become a difficult and a costlier task. Exterior lights refer to any lights present outside the covered area of building such as lighting for roadway parking facilities parks etc. With the advancement in technology systems have been introduced for the remote management of the exterior light system.

The existing approach in the lighting system caters to the fact that the exterior lights for a site may operate differently in different service windows for each transition and for each of the circuit sub circuit of the lighting system. This causes difficulty in managing and optimizing the exterior lights operations as the scale of operation of the exterior lights increases across a distributed site.

The problem increases when along with environmental factors like cloudiness and visibility etc. additional external factors also start impacting operations of the exterior lights. For example any manual interventions like overrides temporary changes in the schedule mode of operations etc. Thus in the existing scenario managing the exterior lights for a distributed site becomes difficult since there are multiple possibilities and impacting factors which would determine if the exterior lights are operating efficiently or not.

Disclosed herein is a method and system for optimizing operations of exterior lights for a site of a plurality of distributed sites. Exterior lights operations are optimized by a lighting control system. The lighting control system is connected to a plurality of distributed sites across different locations of an organization. The lighting control system optimizes the operation of the exterior lights by monitoring one or more deviations occurring in the operation of the exterior lights of a site remotely.

In an embodiment the present disclosure relates to a method for optimizing the operation of exterior lights for a site of a plurality of distributed sites. The method comprises receiving data associated with lights from at least one site of the plurality of distributed sites. The data received is one of exterior light data and combination of exterior and interior light data said combination of external and internal light data is processed to identify the exterior light data. The method comprises processing the data received from the at least one site of the plurality of distributed sites to obtain data in a predefined format identifying the current logic and an optimum logic of operation of the exterior lights based on the data in the predefined format identifying one or more deviations in the operation of exterior lights based on the current logic and the optimum logic determining one or more causes for the one or more deviations and optimizing monitoring and continuously improving operations of the exterior lights based on the one or more causes of the one or more deviations.

In an embodiment the present disclosure relates to a lighting control system for optimizing operations of exterior lights for a site of a plurality of distributed sites. The lighting control system comprises a processor and a memory communicatively coupled to the processor wherein the memory stores processor executable instructions which on execution causes the lighting control system to receive data associated with lights from at least one site of the plurality of distributed sites. The data received is one of exterior light data and combination of exterior and interior light data said combination of external and internal light data is processed to identify the exterior light data. The lighting control system processes the data received from the at least one site of the plurality of distributed sites to obtain data in a predefined format identifies the current logic and an optimum logic of operation of the exterior lights based on the data in the predefined format identifies one or more deviations in the operation of exterior lights based on the current logic and the optimum logic determines one or more causes for the one or more deviations and optimizes monitors and continuously improves the operation of the exterior lights based on the one or more causes of the one or more deviations.

In an embodiment the present disclosure relates to a non transitory computer readable medium including instructions stored thereon that when processed by at least one processor cause a lighting control system to receive data associated with lights from at least one site of the plurality of distributed sites wherein the data is one of exterior light data and combination of exterior and interior light data said combination of external and internal light data is processed to identify the exterior light data process the data received from the at least one site of the plurality of distributed sites to obtain data in a predefined format identify the current logic and an optimum logic of operation of the exterior lights based on the data in the predefined format identify one or more deviations in the operation of exterior lights based on the current logic and the optimum logic determine one or more causes for the one or more deviations and optimize operation of the exterior lights based on the one or more causes of the one or more deviations.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that any block diagrams herein represent conceptual views of illustrative systems embodying the principles of the present subject matter. Similarly it will be appreciated that any flow charts flow diagrams state transition diagrams pseudo code and the like represent various processes which may be substantially represented in computer readable medium and executed by a computer or processor whether or not such computer or processor is explicitly shown.

In the present document the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment or implementation of the present subject matter described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments.

While the disclosure is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiment thereof has been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail below. It should be understood however that it is not intended to limit the disclosure to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary the disclosure is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternative falling within the spirit and the scope of the disclosure.

The terms comprises comprising or any other variations thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a setup device or method that comprises a list of components or steps does not include only those components or steps but may include other components or steps not expressly listed or inherent to such setup or device or method. In other words one or more elements in a system or apparatus proceeded by comprises . . . a does not without more constraints preclude the existence of other elements or additional elements in the system or method.

In the following detailed description of the embodiments of the disclosure reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the disclosure may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to understand the present disclosure. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. The following description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense.

The present disclosure relates to a method for optimizing operations of exterior lights for a site of a plurality of distributed sites. The present disclosure provides a lighting control system which optimizes the operation of exterior lights by identifying one or more deviations and one or more causes for those deviations in the operation of the exterior lights and further implements one or more resolutions to overcome the one or more deviations. The one or more deviations in the operating logic are identified based on the differences in the current and the optimum logic and deviation in implementation of the current logic. The current logic is the logic on which the exterior lights are operating currently. The optimum logic is an ideal logic for operating the exterior lights of the site. The optimum logic for the site is identified based on the efficiency of operation of exterior lights of the plurality of distributed site statutory policy compliances to be followed while operating the exterior light and based on site operations and discrepancies. In one embodiment of the present disclosure the optimization is done for one or more sites of a plurality of distributed sites depending on the occurrence of the deviations in the one or more sites. When the optimization is done for the one or more sites of the plurality of distributed sites the lighting control system analyses the impacts of the one or more deviations of the plurality of distributed sites. Based on the deviations impacts of the deviations and causes of the deviations the lighting control system assigns priority for the one or more sites of the plurality of distributed sites. In the present disclosure the lighting control system further generates reports and alarms based on the priority and resolves issues remotely or through the most efficient method identified including identifying ways for temporary as well as permanent fixes. The lighting control system monitors the one or more resolutions implemented for optimizing the exterior light. In such a way the operation of exterior lights are optimized which reduces the dependencies on the expertise of resources increases cost effectiveness ensures timely actions thus enhancing the efficiency and effectiveness of operations of the exterior lights.

As shown in the environment comprises a lighting control system a site site . . . site collectively referred as plurality of distributed sites . The lighting control system is interconnected to the plurality of distributed sites through a wired or wireless communication network . The lighting control system optimizes the operation of exterior lights by identifying one or more deviations in the operation of the exterior lights. The plurality of distributed sites comprises one or more user device user device . . . user device collectively referred as one or more user devices external sources and user data sources . The one or more user devices the external sources and user data sources may be present within the plurality of distributed sites or alternatively connected the plurality of distributed sites . The lighting control system receives data associated with lights for at least one site of a plurality of distributed sites from the one or more user devices the external sources and the user data sources . In an embodiment the data received is either exterior lights data or combination of exterior and interior light data. In case a combination of exterior and interior light data is received said data is processed by the lighting control system to obtain the exterior light data. illustrates the different user data sources connected to the lighting control system and are explained in detail in following description. In an embodiment the one or more user devices are operated and or controlled by users for management of the exterior lights of the plurality of distributed sites .

The lighting control system comprises an I O Interface a memory and a processor . The I O interface is configured to receive the data associated with the lights from at least one site of the plurality of distributed sites .

The received information from the I O interface is stored in the memory . The memory is communicatively coupled to the processor of the lighting control system . The memory also stores processor instructions which cause the processor to execute the instruction in order to optimize the operations of the exterior lights of the plurality of distributed sites .

In the illustrated the one or more data and the one or more modules stored in the memory are described herein in detail. In an embodiment the data includes configuration data static data user device data external source data current and optimum logic data deviation data benchmark data deviation cause data deviation impact data site priority data reports and alarm data exterior light optimizing data and other data for optimizing the operation of the exterior lights.

The configuration data comprises data associated with the exterior lights for a site of the plurality of distributed site provided by one or more users. The configuration data comprises the initial time and the end time for the analysis. This is optional and can be used if the user wants to perform analysis for a particular period of time. Further the configuration data comprises information about the number of circuits and the sub circuits of the exterior lights which needs the optimization. The user is provided with the flexibility of choosing multiple circuits or sub circuits for the optimization process.

The static data comprises data associated with the exterior lights for a site of the plurality of distributed site provided by one or more users. The static data may be provided only once for each system unless any infrastructural or policy changes are made. The static data comprises information about the location of the plurality of distributed site . This information is included per site for comparison of the plurality of distributed site within the same location. In an embodiment information about the current logic based on which the exterior lights of the plurality of distributed sites operate is defined in the static data . The current logic can be based on any one or more or a combination of sensor based occupancy based and schedule based. In an embodiment the information about the current logic is either provided by the user or determined by the lighting control system . In an embodiment the static data also comprises details about the set points service windows statutory information cost and tariff information and the one or more buffer limits used in the analysis. In an embodiment the information about the data quality parameters for validating the data is provided by the user. The service window data comprises information about the service windows in which the exterior lights are operated. The statutory information comprises details about the policy of operating the exterior lights in a particular location and the enterprise and the cost and tariff data comprises the cost of electricity for a distributed site which further varies depending on the location utility and plan. Further the user provides two set points which indicate a transition in the lighting status of the exterior lights of the plurality of distributed sites . For example the lux level sensors D reaches the first set point in the morning when transition from night to day occurs. At this transition the lux level value of the lux level sensors D increases. Further the lux level sensors D reaches the second set point during the evening when day to night transition occurs. At this transition the lux level value of the lux level sensors D starts decreasing. The user device data comprises information about the exterior lights for a site of a plurality of distributed sites . In an embodiment the user device data comprises a combination of interior and exterior light data. In an embodiment the data received for the exterior lights may also be for the plurality of distributed sites . The user device data is received from the user data sources . shows a block diagram illustrating user data sources in accordance with some embodiments of the present disclosure. The user data sources comprise in site instrumentations such as lighting controllers A occupancy sensors B timer control sensors C lux level sensors D and energy meters E. The lighting controller A can record status of operation of exterior lights operating schedule and overrides for each circuit sub circuit and site. For example the ON OFF status about the lighting circuits and the sub circuits at each interval of time. The lighting status data is Boolean in nature where 1 denotes an ON condition and 0 denotes OFF. In an embodiment a user may provide ON OFF time for the exterior lights operating schedules and overrides. The override is a facility given to the one or more users for extending the operation of the exterior lights beyond the scheduled or the current logic defined. The occupancy sensors B detect the occupancy of any space by an occupant manager employee within a certain defined area. This data helps in overriding the lux sensors data. For example if the lux level set point for a switch ON has been reached and if there are no occupants present then the lights would not get switched ON and vice versa. In an embodiment a user can provide start and end time for the occupancy of occupants. In an embodiment the occupancy of the occupant is sensed by the occupancy sensors B through one or more data sources for example swipe cards biometric devices GPS Based etc. The occupancy of the occupant may also be determined by user data sources associated with the user for example access cards IR smart cards etc. Further the timer control sensors C are used to turn ON OFF the exterior lights or interior lights at specific times. The information about the ON OFF status of the exterior light schedule at each interval of time is provided by the timer control sensors C. Further the lux level sensors D are installed at the plurality of distributed sites which checks the luminosity of the area of the site. The lux level sensors D sense the lux level for the area of the site at which the exterior lights operating are configured to be switched ON OFF. Further the information about the exterior lux level which is the presence of sunlight is recorded by the lux level sensors D. The exterior lights are switched ON based on the values of the lux level sensors D. Further the energy meters E comprises information on lighting consumption data which indicates the consumption of energy by the external lights or a combination of external and internal lights of the site.

The external source data comprises information about the exterior lights for a site of a plurality of distributed sites. The external sources collect the information directly and feed it to the lighting control system . The external source data comprises information about the weather related data. The weather data comprises information on sunrise sunset cloudiness index visibility of the location etc. of the plurality of distributed sites . In an embodiment external source data includes information on policies and compliance gathered from the compliance portals available on the web.

The current and optimum logic data comprises information about the current and the optimum logic for operating the exterior light of the site. There are multiple logics in which the exterior lights can operate. The circuits of the exterior lights can be configured on any one or more mode namely sensor based schedule based and occupancy based or combinations. Also the different services windows may operate based on a different logic. In an embodiment information about the current logic of the exterior lights is provided by the users of the plurality of distributed site . The optimum logic is identified based on comparative benchmarking at site circuits sub circuits level for efficiency of operation of the exterior lights of plurality of distributed sites industry practices and statutory policy compliances and are subsequently tailored based on deviations their causes and impacts.

The deviation data comprises information about the one or more deviations in the operation of the exterior lights of a plurality of distributed site . The deviations indicate fluctuations in the current operating logic of the exterior lights. The one or more deviations are classified into positive and negative deviations. The positive deviations are the deviations which result in energy savings and are mostly based on the compliances issue. For example exterior lights switched ON late. The negative deviations are the deviations which result in more consumption of the energy power. For example exterior lights switched ON early leading to increased run hours.

The benchmark data comprises information about the benchmark sites benchmark circuits and benchmark sub circuits identified based on at least one of location operating patterns policy asset type configuration etc. These identified benchmarks are used to determine deviation causes and scope for further improvement.

The deviation cause data comprises information about the one or more causes which lead to the deviation from the current as well as the optimum logic. The one or more deviations identified are correlated with the one or more external source data and other user device data to identify the one or more causes of the deviations. The one or more deviations of the exterior lights of a site are correlated with the weather related data override data policy data asset data run hours data and consumption data. Further the one or more causes are identified by comparing the deviations of the plurality of distributed sites with benchmark sites benchmark circuits and benchmark sub circuits of the plurality of distributed sites with similar characteristics like location climate policies operating pattern other static data etc.

The deviation impact data comprises information about the one or more impacts for the one or more deviations. The impact for the one or more deviation is calculated at the circuit sub circuit or site level. The impact for the one or more deviation is defined as the number of deviation minutes per site per circuit for a given duration. Further if the cost and tariff value is provided by the user the monetary impact value is also calculated.

The site priority data comprises information about the priority assigned for the plurality of distributed sites . The priority is assigned for at least one site based on the one or more causes and the one or more impacts of the deviation. The priority for a site is indicated depending on the number of deviation type of the deviation impact of deviation and urgency of resolutions.

The reports and alarm data comprises information about the alarm for the one or more deviations which need immediate resolutions and are enabled through auto correction batch processing correction notification correction effectiveness to users and for site dispatch etc. The report data includes information on alarms and data from current and optimum logic data deviation data benchmark data deviation cause data deviation impact data site priority data and other data . The report data further comprises long term actions suggestions and plans to optimize performance further.

The exterior light optimizing data comprise information about the temporary and permanent resolutions performed for optimizing the operations of exterior lights. The exterior light optimizing data also comprises the optimum logic determined for the one or more deviations of the exterior light of a site of a plurality of distributed site .

The other data may store data like default benchmark values history data alarm counts etc. including temporary data and temporary files generated by modules for performing the various functions of the lighting control system .

In an embodiment the one or more data in the memory are processed by the one or more modules of the lighting control system . The one or more modules may be stored within the memory as shown in . In an example the one or more modules communicatively coupled to the processor may also be present outside the memory and implemented as hardware. As used herein the term module refers to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC an electronic circuit a processor shared dedicated or group and memory that execute one or more software or firmware programs a combinational logic circuit and or other suitable components that provide the described functionality.

In one implementation the one or more modules may include for example a receiving module a data processing module a current and optimum logic identification module a deviation identification module a deviation cause identification module a deviation impact calculation module a site priority determination module reports and alarm generation module an exterior light operation optimizing module and a monitoring module . shows an exemplary environment illustrating data flow between different modules of the lighting control system in accordance with some embodiment of the present disclosure.

The memory may also comprise other modules to perform various miscellaneous functionalities of the lighting control system . It will be appreciated that such aforementioned modules may be represented as a single module or a combination of different modules.

The receiving module receives user device data static data and configuration data from one or more user devices . Further the receiving module also receives information about the exterior lights of a distributed site from one or more external sources . The one or more user devices provide information about the operation of the exterior lights of the site of a plurality of distributed sites .

The data processing module processes the data received from the one or more user devices static data configuration data and the exterior sources for the exterior lights of a plurality of distributed sites . The data received by the one or more user devices is either exterior light data or combination of external and internal light data. The data processing module identifies the external light data if the data received is combination of internal and external light data. Further the data processing module comprises a data validator unit A a data treatment unit B a data filtering unit C a data sufficiency unit D a data calculating unit E and a data combining unit F. The data validator unit A of the data processing module validates the identified external light data to determine any invalid data in the exterior light data where the invalid data comprises treatable and non treatable data. Further the data treatment unit B treats the treatable data. The data filtering unit C filters the invalid data by retaining the treated data and removing the non treatable invalid data. The data sufficiency unit D determines sufficiency of the filtered data. The data sufficiency is checked based on two criteria. Firstly all the necessary data is present in the filtered data and secondly the duration for which the data is available is sufficient. Further the data calculating unit E calculates one or more transition points for the lighting status data occupancy data schedule data and sensor data using the filtered data. The transition points indicate the change in the status of the data in case of lighting status data occupancy data schedule data while it indicates transition of sensor values from below set point to above set point or vice versa. Further the data combining unit F of the data processing module combines the transition points calculated for the lighting status data occupancy data schedule data and sensor data to obtain the data in the pre defined format which can be further used for identifying the current and the optimum logic.

The current and optimum logic identification module identifies the current as well the optimum operating logic of the exterior light of a plurality of distributed site . The current and optimum logic identification module identifies a service window for each of the transition points based on the operations. Further based on the transition points assigned the current logic mode of the exterior light operations is identified for each circuit sub circuit for each service window and each transitions from ON to OFF and OFF to ON . The type of mode may be any one or combination of the sensor mode occupancy and schedule mode. The current and optimum logic identification module further determines the prominent mode in which the exterior light of a site is operating based on factors such as frequency operating pattern configuration changes etc. In an embodiment if a conflict occurs in deciding the prominent mode optimum mode is considered as the current logic. The optimum logic is identified based on comparative benchmarking at site circuits sub circuits level for efficiency of operation of the exterior lights of plurality of distributed sites industry practices and statutory policy compliances and is subsequently tailored based on deviations their causes and impacts.

The deviation identification module identifies one or more deviations in the operating logic of the exterior lights for a site of a plurality of distributed site . The deviation identification module estimates the one or more deviations from the prominent mode of operation and the optimum mode of deviation. The deviations are classified into two types namely positive deviation and negative deviation.

The deviation cause identification module identifies one or more causes of the one or more deviation by performing at least one of validating the sensor data with the weather related data to analyse proper operations of sensors. Further the deviation cause identification module identifies at least one of benchmark sites benchmark circuits and benchmark sub circuits based on at least one of location information weather data operating patterns policy configuration and assets types to identify one or more causes of the one or more deviations. The deviation cause identification module further identifies the one or more causes for the deviations by correlating the one or more deviations identified with the override data weather data policy asset types run hours data and consumption data etc. In an embodiment the lighting control system identifies a location from the plurality of distributed sites based on the similar weather information asset types policy sensor configuration etc. Further the deviation cause identification module compares at least one of the data and the one or more deviations of the site of a plurality of distributed sites with the benchmark sites of the identified location. The deviation cause identification module also compares the one or more deviation data with one or more data of the identified benchmark sites benchmark circuits and benchmark sub circuits.

The deviation impact calculation module identifies one or more impacts for the one or more deviations. The deviation impact calculation module calculates the impact of the deviation for each level. The deviation impact calculation module calculates the impact for the one or more deviations based on the number of deviation occurring per site and for per circuit for a given duration. Further if the cost and tariff data is available the deviation impact calculation module calculates impact in monetary value.

The site priority determination module determines the priority for the plurality of distributed sites . The priority for the plurality of distributed sites is determined based on the one or more causes and the impacts of the deviation. In an embodiment the priority is assigned for at least one of the site of the plurality of distributed sites . The site priority determination module assigns priority based on the type of the deviation for example positive deviation negative deviation etc. The positive deviations are given priority due to the compliances issues. The site priority determination module keeps all the compliances issues in the first priority. In the first priority the site priority determination module prioritizes the plurality of distributed sites based on the number of hours of positive deviation. The negative deviations vary between second and third priority. In the negative deviation the priority is assigned based on the time duration of the deviation and the consumption per hour. For both positive and negative deviation the modules enable batch process auto correction and intimation by generation of alarms for the plurality of distributed sites undergoing deviations. Also if the deviations are addressable remotely such as schedule change manager in lock out set point change and Outside Light Sensors OLS calibration remote corrections are carried out. Further as an immediate measure for the inefficiency corrections and temporary fixes can be done on schedules which are carried out based on sunrise sunset time local time and or other schedules and or occupancy manager out time. If the optimum logic identified cannot be implemented at the moment second best optimum logic is identified and used suggested for resolution. Fixes related to enhanced energy efficiency like circuit synchronization are suggested through reports and alarms.

The reports and alarm generation module generates one or more reports for the exterior lights operations of plurality of distributed site . The one or more reports generated by the reports and alarm generation module comprise enterprise performance report site performance report asset performance report etc. The reports and alarm for the operation of exterior lights are generated based on the priority of the distributed site and expertise required for the one or more deviations. The expertise requirement comprises one or more technicians required to correct any deviations for the sites manually. The reports are generated by the reports and alarm generation module based on the performance of the plurality of distributed sites which are optimized by the lighting control system . The reports for optimizing the operation of exterior lights comprise type of expertise required for any particular deviation. The reports and alarm generation module also generates one or more alarms. The one or more alarms generated by the reports and alarm generation module comprises auto correction alarm alarm for correction effectiveness batch processing alarm site dispatch alarms statutory policy adherence alarm etc. The alarms are generated for the one or more deviations which require immediate resolution in order to remove the one or more deviations from the exterior lights operation. Reports can be customized based on user need. In addition all the reports generated by the reports and alarm generation module are available which can be utilized by one or more output devices like alarms vendor unit customer system interfaces customer stakeholders etc.

The exterior light operation optimizing module optimizes the operation of exterior lights of a site of plurality of distributed sites by implementing the one or more resolutions identified based on the one or more causes impacts the one or more deviations policy requirements and other site discrepancies. For example if one or deviations occurs in the lux level sensors D the expertise required like replacement or calibration of the lux level sensors D are carried out. Further if a schedule change or set point change or occupants IN OUT status occurs remote corrections for the schedule change are carried out. To avoid non compliance issues one or more resolutions based on the local time priority are carried out. In an embodiment the exterior light operation optimizing module optimizes the operation of the exterior lights by conforming to the statutory policy requirements. The statutory policy requirements are the legal statutes defined by the legal authorities to be followed by any organisation. In case due to certain site discrepancies optimum logic cannot be implemented second best optimum logic is used to resolve the issue as a temporary fix.

The monitoring module monitors the one or more resolutions performed for optimizing the operation of exterior lights of the site of plurality of distributed sites . The monitoring module also monitors the alarm generated for the one or more deviations which need immediate resolutions. Further the monitoring module monitors the one or more deviations the one or more causes the one or more impacts and the effectiveness of the one or more resolutions performed for optimizing the operations of the exterior lights. In an embodiment the effectiveness of the one or more resolutions is determined for at least one of one or more modes of optimization and one or more entities optimizing the operation of exterior lights. The monitoring module contains alarm counter unit B as shown in . The alarm counter unit B keeps a count of the recent alarm generated for a specific period of time quantifies them and manages alarm trigger to avoid repeat or duplicate alarm within specific time interval. Further the monitoring module also contains an alarm history monitor unit A as shown in which monitors the resolutions taken for the one or more deviations effectiveness of the resolution mechanisms and also the time taken for implementing the resolutions for optimizing the operation of exterior lights. In an embodiment the monitoring module monitors the optimization of the exterior lights by conforming to the statutory policy compliances for the exterior lights of the plurality of distributed sites .

As illustrated in the method comprises one or more blocks for processing the data received from the lighting control system .

The lighting control system receives data associated with lights for optimizing the operations of exterior lights. The data associated with the light is received from various external sources and one or more user devices or through system integration like integration with BMS. In an embodiment a user enters a number of data samples for a particular site for optimizing the exterior light operations. The sample data is defined as a data input necessary for carrying out the optimizing operations.

At block a data quality validator A validates the received data by identifying invalid data where the invalid data comprises treatable and non treatable data. The received data is validated based on three parameters namely missing sample parameter duplicate sample parameter and limit parameter. In the missing sample data if the data sample is missing it can result in wrong calculation or estimation and further cannot be used for optimizing the operation of the exterior light. The duplicate sample parameter checks for the similar data since it may lead to either overestimation or underestimation. For example if there are two timestamps with same values one of the timestamp is removed. However if there are two timestamps with different values the one closer to acceptable limit defined in by the user is selected. In case both the timestamp fall in limits and are not closer in range then both the values are deleted. Further all the data values are accepted within a defined range. In the limit parameter the limit for the data sample is checked. The acceptable limit is defined by the user and in case the limit is not defined the lighting control system uses default values depending on the site parameters.

At block a data filtering unit C filters the invalid data by retaining treated data and removing the non treatable invalid data 

At block a data sufficiency unit D determines sufficiency of the filtered data. The data sufficiency of the data sample is checked based on two criteria. Firstly the entire data sample should be available for optimization and secondly the duration should be sufficient for the available sample data.

At block a data calculating unit E calculates one or more transition points for the lighting status data sample occupancy data schedule data and sensor data based on the filtered data. The sensor data transition through set point is based on individual set points received from the user for each site circuit and sub circuit. This ensures that any calibrations done for the sensors do not impact the calculation of transition point for sensors.

At block a data combining unit F combines the one or more transition points of the lighting status data the schedule data the occupancy data and the sensor data to obtain the data in the predefined format. The pre defined format is the data which is further used for identifying the current and the optimum logic of operation of the exterior lights.

As illustrated in the method comprises one or more blocks for identifying a current logic from the pre defined data received from the lighting control system .

The current logic is identified by correlating the transition points of the lighting status data with transition points of schedule sensors and occupancy mode and factors such as frequency operating pattern of site configuration changes etc. For each correlation if the transition points of the lighting status data is equal to the time as determined by the sensors schedule and occupancy mode then it is considered as a match. A default buffer limit for considering a match is used or as defined by the user.

At block the lighting control system correlates the transition points of lighting status data with the transition points of schedule mode. In an embodiment if the difference between lights switch ON time of the lighting status data and schedule ON time indicates a null or the difference between the lights OFF time of the lighting status data and schedule OFF time implies null then it is considered as a match. A default buffer limit for considering a match is used or as defined by the user.

At block the lighting control system correlates the transition points of the lighting status data with the transition points of sensor mode. In an embodiment if the difference between determination of the lux level set points and the sensors determination of set points is less than pre defined percentages then a preferred range of buffer value is added. For example if the difference between lux level set points and sensor value is less than 2 then a buffer time of 15 minutes are added. Further if the transition points of the lighting status falls in the range as determined from the differences of lux level set points and sensors value then it is considered as a match.

At block the lighting control system correlates the lighting transition points with occupancy transition points. For example if the OFF time of the exterior lights is equal to any occupants like manager out time plus some additional minutes it is considered as a match.

At block the lighting control system analyse and summarizes the matches obtained from the previous step and correlates with factors such as frequency operating pattern of the site configuration changes to identify the prominent mode. In an embodiment the matches are counted for the entire duration during which the plurality of distributed sites operate categorized by service windows for each ON OFF. In an embodiment the logic with maximum matches is considered as the prominent mode or the current logic of the exterior lights. In case there are equal matches optimum mode is considered as the current logic. The optimum logic is identified based on comparative benchmarking at site circuits sub circuits level for efficiency of operation of the exterior lights of plurality of distributed sites industry practices and statutory policy compliances and is subsequently tailored based on deviations their causes and impact.

As illustrated in the method comprises one or more blocks for identifying the causes for the one or more deviations identified. The one or more causes are identified by performing at least one of the steps explained in the one or more blocks below.

At block the lighting control system validates the sensor data with the weather related data. In an embodiment if cloudiness and visibility levels are in range but the sensor value does not vary accordingly then it is sensor error. Also if the sensor is not varying in accordance with the sunrise sunset then also it is sensor error. Similarly if the cloudiness and visibility levels are in range and the sensor value is also varying along with cloudiness visibility and sunrise sunset data and still a deviation is encountered then a correction in set points is required.

At block the lighting control system identifies at least one of benchmark sites benchmark circuits and benchmark sub circuits based on at least one of location information weather data operating patterns policy configuration asset types etc.

At block the lighting control system correlates the one or more deviation identified in the operation of exterior lights with the override data weather data policy asset types run hours data and consumption data etc. In an embodiment if the deviation is due to override then it is not considered as a deviation. The weather related data for example if the cloudiness level are high and visibility is low and the current mode of operation shifts to schedule then it is not considered as a deviation. Similarly if the cloudiness levels are high and visibility is low and the operating mode of exterior lights does not shift on need then it is considered as a deviation.

At block the lighting control system compares at least one of data and one or more deviation of the site of plurality of distributed sites with the benchmark sites of the identified location. In an embodiment the one or more deviations are compared with the data of one or more circuits of the site or one or more circuits of the plurality of distributed sites of the identified location. In an embodiment the comparison is done based on the policy adherence.

At block the lighting control system compares the one or more deviation data with one or more data of the identified benchmark sites benchmark circuits and benchmark sub circuits. For example if one of the circuits of the site operates optimally then the operating mode of the circuit can be known to identify the causes of deviation in other circuits.

As illustrated in the method comprises one or more blocks for optimizing the operations of exterior lights for a plurality of distributed site. The method may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions. Generally computer executable instructions can include routines programs objects components data structures procedures modules and functions which perform particular functions or implement particular abstract data types.

The order in which the method is described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described method blocks can be combined in any order to implement the method. Additionally individual blocks may be deleted from the methods without departing from the spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore the method can be implemented in any suitable hardware software firmware or combination thereof.

The exterior lights of a plurality of distributed sites refer to any lights present outside the covered area. The exterior lights for the plurality of distributed sites operate on various logics which lead to problems when operated in different service window. The lighting control system optimizes the operation of the exterior lights for the plurality of distributed sites by correlating multiple factors.

At block the lighting control system receives data associated with lights from at least one site of the plurality of distributed sites . The data received is one of exterior light data and combination of exterior and interior light data where the said combination is processed to identify the exterior light data. In case combination of exterior and interior light data is received the exterior data is filtered from the combination of internal and external light data at the data.

At block the lighting control system processes the data received from the at least one site of the plurality of distributed sites to obtain data in a pre defined format.

At block the lighting control system identifies a current logic and an optimum logic of operation of the exterior lights based on the data in the pre defined format.

At block the lighting control system identifies one or more deviations in the operation of exterior lights based on the current logic and the optimum logic.

At block determine one or more causes for the one or more deviations. The one or more causes are determined by comparing at least one of the data and the one or more deviations of a plurality of sites of an identified location and by correlating the one or more deviations with override data and validating weather related data with sensors data.

At block the lighting control system optimizes the operations of the exterior lights based on the one or more causes of the one or more deviations.

The processor may be disposed in communication with one or more input output I O devices not shown via I O interface . The I O interface may employ communication protocols methods such as without limitation audio analog digital monoaural RCA stereo IEEE 1394 serial bus universal serial bus USB infrared PS 2 BNC coaxial component composite digital visual interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RF antennas S Video VGA IEEE 802.n b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax or the like etc.

Using the I O interface the computer system may communicate with one or more I O devices. For example the input device may be an antenna keyboard mouse joystick infrared remote control camera card reader fax machine dongle biometric reader microphone touch screen touchpad trackball stylus scanner storage device transceiver video device source etc. The output device may be a printer fax machine video display e.g. cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED plasma Plasma display panel PDP Organic light emitting diode display OLED or the like audio speaker etc.

In some embodiments the computer system consists of a lighting control system. The processor may be disposed in communication with the communication network via a network interface . The network interface may communicate with the communication network . The network interface may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP token ring IEEE 802.11a b g n x etc. The communication network may include without limitation a direct interconnection local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless network e.g. using Wireless Application Protocol the Internet etc. Using the network interface and the communication network the computer system may communicate with a plurality of distributed sites site . . . site . The network interface may employ connection protocols include but not limited to direct connect Ethernet e.g. twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP token ring IEEE 802.11a b g n x etc.

The communication network includes but is not limited to a direct interconnection an e commerce network a peer to peer P2P network local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless network e.g. using Wireless Application Protocol the Internet Wi Fi and such. The first network and the second network may either be a dedicated network or a shared network which represents an association of the different types of networks that use a variety of protocols for example Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP Wireless Application Protocol WAP etc. to communicate with each other. Further the first network and the second network may include a variety of network devices including routers bridges servers computing devices storage devices etc.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with a memory e.g. RAM ROM etc. not shown in figure via a storage interface . The storage interface may connect to memory including without limitation memory drives removable disc drives etc. employing connection protocols such as serial advanced technology attachment SATA Integrated Drive Electronics IDE IEEE 1394 Universal Serial Bus USB fiber channel Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI etc. The memory drives may further include a drum magnetic disc drive magneto optical drive optical drive Redundant Array of Independent Discs RAID solid state memory devices solid state drives etc.

The memory may store a collection of program or database components including without limitation user interface an operating system web browser etc. In some embodiments computer system may store user application data such as the data variables records etc. as described in this disclosure. Such databases may be implemented as fault tolerant relational scalable secure databases such as Oracle or Sybase.

The operating system may facilitate resource management and operation of the computer system . Examples of operating systems include without limitation Apple Macintosh OS X Unix Unix like system distributions e.g. Berkeley Software Distribution BSD FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD etc. Linux distributions e.g. Red Hat Ubuntu Kubuntu etc. IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows XP Vista 7 8 etc. Apple iOS Google Android Blackberry OS or the like.

In some embodiments the computer system may implement a web browser stored program component. The web browser may be a hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari etc. Secure web browsing may be provided using Secure Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTPS Secure Sockets Layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS etc. Web browsers may utilize facilities such as AJAX DHTML Adobe Flash JavaScript Java Application Programming Interfaces APIs etc. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail server stored program component. The mail server may be an Internet mail server such as Microsoft Exchange or the like. The mail server may utilize facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI C C Microsoft.NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP Python WebObjects etc. The mail server may utilize communication protocols such as Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP Messaging Application Programming Interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange Post Office Protocol POP Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail client stored program component. The mail client may be a mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Mozilla Thunderbird etc.

Furthermore one or more computer readable storage media may be utilized in implementing embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. A computer readable storage medium refers to any type of physical memory on which information or data readable by a processor may be stored. Thus a computer readable storage medium may store instructions for execution by one or more processors including instructions for causing the processor s to perform steps or stages consistent with the embodiments described herein. The term computer readable medium should be understood to include tangible items and exclude carrier waves and transient signals i.e. be non transitory. Examples include Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM volatile memory non volatile memory hard drives CD ROMs DVDs flash drives disks and any other known physical storage media.

An embodiment of the present disclosure optimizes the operation of the exterior lights for a site at large scale without visiting the site and thus reduces the dependency on the expertise and skilled resources.

An embodiment of the present disclosure monitors the one or more deviations in the operation of the exterior lights and takes corrective actions based on priority.

An embodiment of the present disclosure provides unique methodology for correlating multiple factors by taking into account the site discrepancies.

An embodiment of the present disclosure provides permanent as well as temporary fixes for the one or more deviations by detecting the causes.

An embodiment of the present disclosure provides immediate corrections on temporary basis for mitigating non compliance statutory issues and opportunity loss.

An embodiment of the present disclosure monitors the resolutions taken and tracks the effectiveness of the one or more resolutions for optimizing the operation of exterior lights.

An embodiment of the present disclosure keeps a count of the recent alarm generated for a specific period of time quantifies them and manages alarm trigger to avoid repeat or duplicate alarm within specific time interval.

The described operations may be implemented as a method system or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof. The described operations may be implemented as code maintained in a non transitory computer readable medium where a processor may read and execute the code from the computer readable medium. The processor is at least one of a microprocessor and a processor capable of processing and executing the queries. A non transitory computer readable medium may comprise media such as magnetic storage medium e.g. hard disk drives floppy disks tape etc. optical storage CD ROMs DVDs optical disks etc. volatile and non volatile memory devices e.g. EEPROMs ROMs PROMs RAMs DRAMs SRAMs Flash Memory firmware programmable logic etc. etc. Further non transitory computer readable media comprise all computer readable media except for a transitory. The code implementing the described operations may further be implemented in hardware logic e.g. an integrated circuit chip Programmable Gate Array PGA Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC etc. .

Still further the code implementing the described operations may be implemented in transmission signals where transmission signals may propagate through space or through a transmission media such as an optical fiber copper wire etc. The transmission signals in which the code or logic is encoded may further comprise a wireless signal satellite transmission radio waves infrared signals Bluetooth etc. The transmission signals in which the code or logic is encoded is capable of being transmitted by a transmitting station and received by a receiving station where the code or logic encoded in the transmission signal may be decoded and stored in hardware or a non transitory computer readable medium at the receiving and transmitting stations or devices. An article of manufacture comprises non transitory computer readable medium hardware logic and or transmission signals in which code may be implemented. A device in which the code implementing the described embodiments of operations is encoded may comprise a computer readable medium or hardware logic. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize that many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope of the invention and that the article of manufacture may comprise suitable information bearing medium known in the art.

The terms an embodiment embodiment embodiments the embodiment the embodiments one or more embodiments some embodiments and one embodiment mean one or more but not all embodiments of the invention s unless expressly specified otherwise.

The terms including comprising having and variations thereof mean including but not limited to unless expressly specified otherwise.

The enumerated listing of items does not imply that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive unless expressly specified otherwise.

A description of an embodiment with several components in communication with each other does not imply that all such components are required. On the contrary a variety of optional components are described to illustrate the wide variety of possible embodiments of the invention.

When a single device or article is described herein it will be readily apparent that more than one device article whether or not they cooperate may be used in place of a single device article. Similarly where more than one device or article is described herein whether or not they cooperate it will be readily apparent that a single device article may be used in place of the more than one device or article or a different number of devices articles may be used instead of the shown number of devices or programs. The functionality and or the features of a device may be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are not explicitly described as having such functionality features. Thus other embodiments of the invention need not include the device itself.

The illustrated operations of show certain events occurring in a certain order. In alternative embodiments certain operations may be performed in a different order modified or removed. Moreover steps may be added to the above described logic and still conform to the described embodiments. Further operations described herein may occur sequentially or certain operations may be processed in parallel. Yet further operations may be performed by a single processing unit or by distributed processing units.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based here on. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

