---

title: Computerized refraction prescription determination with sphere calculation
abstract: The present disclosure relates generally to a system and method for determining the refractive error of a person, more particularly determining the person's refractive error by using a computerized screen, and providing the person with a prescription for the person's preferred type of corrective lenses. The system and method do not require the trip or expense of a doctor visit, and are optimized for convenience and cost effectiveness. In a general embodiment, the present disclosure provides a method for determining a corrective lenses prescription for a person. The method includes, separately, for each eye of the person, determining the sphere prescription for the person via a computerized screen and without the use of a refractor lens assembly. Determining the sphere prescription is done, in part, by displaying a sphere figure to the person via the computerized screen and enabling the person to select at least one input, where the input corresponds to a sphere measurement.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09504378&OS=09504378&RS=09504378
owner: Opternative, Inc.
number: 09504378
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160113
---
This non provisional patent application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 195 583 titled COMPUTERIZED REFRACTION AND ASTIGMATISM DETERMINATION filed Mar. 3 2014 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 237 842 and further claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 777 481 titled COMPUTERIZED REFRACTION filed on Mar. 12 2013 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 864 328 titled COMPUTERIZED REFRACTION AND ASTIGMATISM DETERMINATION filed Aug. 9 2013 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 881 803 titled COMPUTERIZED REFRACTION AND ASTIGMATISM DETERMINATION filed Sep. 24 2013 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 913 774 titled COMPUTERIZED REFRACTION AND ASTIGMATISM DETERMINATION filed Dec. 9 2013 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 923 894 titled COMPUTERIZED REFRACTION AND ASTIGMATISM DETERMINATION filed Jan. 6 2014 the entire contents of each of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure is generally related to determining a glasses and or a contacts prescription for a patient with a refractive error in need of correction. Many people have refractive errors of the eye which cause them to be either myopic commonly known as nearsightedness or hypermetropic commonly known as farsightedness . One of ordinary skill in the art will understand that myopia refers to a refractive defect of the optical properties of an eye that causes images to focus forward of the retina i.e. a refractive error . Those optical defects are typically caused by among other things defects of the cornea elongation of the eye structure other conditions or a combination of those conditions. Hyperopia on the other hand refers a refractive error of the optical properties of an eye that causes images to focus behind the retina. Those optical defects are the result when the optics of the eye are not strong enough for the front to back length of the eye. Myopia and hyperopia have one component a sphere measurement which indicates the strength or power necessary to correct for the optical defects.

Astigmatism refers to a refractive error that causes light entering the eye to focus on two points rather than one. It is caused by an uneven power of the cornea. An astigmatism has two components an axis measurement which indicates the angle along which any image viewed by the patient is distorted and a cylinder measurement which indicates the strength or power of the distortion. Myopia hyperopia and astigmatism are the principle refractive errors that cause patients to seek treatment to correct their vision problems.

A manifest refraction analysis is a diagnostic tool used by ophthalmologists and optometrists whereby a patient s refractive error is tested to indicate whether the patient would benefit from correction with glasses or contact lenses. As part of that technique a patient looks through a phoropter while the ophthalmologist or optometrist evaluates each of the patient s eyes. A retinal reflex diagnosis technique is often used to assess the magnitude of the refractive error present in the patient s eyes. Subjective feedback from the patient is used to refine the manifest refraction which involves the patient making choices between image quality as different lenses having different powers are slid into place in the phoropter. These refractive errors can be corrected with lenses typically spectacle lenses known as glasses or contact lenses which are applied directly to the eye. They can also be corrected with various types of surgery. At the end of the manifest refraction analysis the ophthalmologist or optometrist may produce a prescription for glasses contact lenses and or refractive surgery.

Other methods for determining the refractive error of a patient include known diagnostic devices such wavefront sensors refractometers and others that are well known in the art. Some of these diagnostic devices use computers to assist in determining the refractive error of the patient. For example one implementation of a wavefront type refractor that is well known in the art uses a Hartmann Shack sensor to measure the wavefront of a light beam generated from an illumination spot projected on the retina and passed through the eye s optics. In such a wavefront type refractor a probe beam from a laser or a super luminescent diode is projected onto the retina through the eye s optics. Light scattered by the retina passes through the eye s optics and emerges through the eye s pupil. The wavefront of the emerging beam carries refractive information relating to the eye s optics. For example if the eye is emmetropic i.e. the eye s optics are without refractive error the wavefront of the emerging beam should be flat. Relay optics relay the wavefront emerging from eye s pupil onto the Hartmann Shack sensor. The Hartmann Shack sensor measures the distortion of the wavefront and provides that information to a computer to compute the refractive errors of the eye due to aberrations of the eye s optics.

Each of the above described techniques for determining a patient s refractive error requires the patient to travel to a place where such machines or doctors are present and available to perform the determination. And having traveled to a doctor s office a patient then has to pay for the time and services of the doctor which may or may not be covered by their health insurance. This can be both expensive and inconvenient for a patient.

For a patient who desires contacts a second charge generally applies for a fitting. This charge is frequently unnecessary because most contacts manufacturers only offer one or a few base curve and diameter combinations meaning there is only one or a few possible fits for that contact. When a patient has worn contacts before and is comfortable in their previous brand there is no need to perform a fitting. Despite this it is commonly required by doctor s offices that a fitting be performed and the accompanying fee charged. Health insurance seldom covers this fee. In some cases the doctor may require that the patient make another separate office visit to have their fitting. Therefore determining a contacts prescription can be even more expensive and inconvenient for a patient.

In addition the cost of the above described machinery phropter wavefront refractor etc. is prohibitive to ownership by an individual not engaged in a medical practice so patients do not have the option of determining their own glasses or contacts prescription outside of a medical practice setting.

Furthermore in office subjective astigmatism tests generally only determine a patient s axis prescription within 10 of accuracy.

Thus there exists a need for a more convenient less costly more accurate way for patients to determine and receive glasses and contacts prescriptions.

The present disclosure relates generally to a system and method for determining the refractive error of a patient more particularly determining the patient s refractive error by using a computerized screen or other suitable visual tool and providing the patient with a corrective lenses prescription for the patient s preferred type of corrective lenses. The system and method do not require the trip or expense of a doctor visit and are optimized for convenience and cost effectiveness.

In a general embodiment the present disclosure provides a method for determining a corrective lenses prescription of a patient. The method includes separately for each eye of the patient determining the astigmatism prescription of the patient via a computerized screen.

In an embodiment determining the astigmatism prescription of the patient via the computerized screen includes presenting a first diagram to the patient via the computerized screen and enabling the patient to select at least one input. The input corresponds to an axis measurement. The method further includes presenting a second diagram to a patient via the computerized screen and enabling the patient to select at least one input. The input corresponds to a cylinder measurement.

In a further embodiment the first diagram and the second diagram are a same diagram. In an alternative further embodiment the first diagram and the second diagram are different diagrams.

In another further embodiment the first diagram is a rotatable line. In a still further embodiment the rotatable line is made up of at least two alternating colors. In yet a further embodiment the at least two alternating colors are selected from the group consisting of the red family and the green family respectively.

In an embodiment the method includes sending the determined astigmatism prescription to at least one doctor for review and approval.

In an alternative embodiment the present disclosure provides a method for determining a corrective lenses prescription of a patient. The method includes separately for each eye of the patient determining the astigmatism prescription of the patient via a computerized screen and determining the power of the corrective lenses prescription of the patient via the computerized screen.

In a further embodiment the method also includes separately for each eye of the patient enabling the patient to make an input of at least one data selected from the group consisting of a base curve from a prior contacts prescription a diameter from a prior contacts prescription a prior contacts brand name and a prior contacts manufacturer. A base curve and a diameter are determined from the at least one data.

In a further embodiment the method also includes separately for each uncorrected eye of the patient determining whether the patient is nearsighted or farsighted by presenting a colorblocked diagram to the patient via the computerized screen and enabling the patient to select an input corresponding to part of the colorblocked diagram.

In another further embodiment the method also includes separately for each corrected eye of the patient determining whether the patient is over corrected or undercorrected by presenting a colorblocked diagram to the patient via the computerized screen and enabling the patient to select an input corresponding to part of the colorblocked diagram.

In an embodiment determining the power of the corrective lenses prescription of the patient via the computerized screen includes presenting a first figure to a patient via the computerized screen. The first figure is too small to be clearly seen by the patient. The method further includes enabling the patient to make at least one input to increase the size of the first figure until it can just barely be made out by the patient. The at least one input corresponds to a first sphere measurement. In a further embodiment the method includes presenting a second figure to a patient via the computerized screen. The second figure is large enough to be clearly seen by the patient. The method enables the patient to make at least one input to decrease the size of the second figure just until it can no longer be made out by the patient. The at least one input corresponds to a second sphere measurement. In another further embodiment the method includes determining a final sphere measurement based at least in part on the first sphere measurement and the second sphere measurement.

In a further embodiment the first figure and the second figure are different figures. In an alternative further embodiment the first figure and the second figure are a same figure.

In another further embodiment the first figure and the second figure comprise at least one symbol selected from the group consisting of letters and numbers.

In still another further embodiment at least one set of the presentation of the first and second figures enabling the patient to make inputs and receiving inputs from the patient is repeated at least once.

In a further embodiment the method includes sending the determined astigmatism and power prescriptions to at least one doctor for review and approval.

In another embodiment the present disclosure provides a non transitory computer readable medium. The non transitory computer readable medium includes a plurality of instructions which when executed by at least one processor cause the at least one processor to operate with at least one display device at least one memory device and at least one input device to determine a corrective lenses prescription of the patient. The corrective lenses prescription comprises an astigmatism prescription and a power. The non transitory computer readable medium determines the glasses prescription of the patient by for each eye of the patient determining the astigmatism prescription of the patient. The non transitory computer readable medium determines the astigmatism prescription of the patient by presenting a first diagram to the patient via a computerized screen and enabling the patient to select an input. The patient selected input corresponds to an axis measurement. The non transitory computer readable medium further determines the astigmatism prescription of the patient by presenting a second diagram to a patient via the computerized screen and enabling the patient to select at least one input. The patient selected input corresponds to a cylinder measurement. The non transitory computer readable medium further determines the corrective lenses prescription of the patient by for each eye of the patient determining the power of the corrective lenses prescription of the patient. The non transitory computer readable medium determines the power of the prescription by presenting a first figure to a patient via the computerized screen. The first figure is too small to be clearly seen by the patient. The non transitory computer readable medium further determines the power of the prescription by enabling the patient to make at least one input to increase the size of the first figure until it can just barely be made out by the patient. The at least one input corresponds to a first sphere measurement. The non transitory computer readable medium further determines the power of the prescription by presenting a second figure to a patient via the computerized screen. The second figure is large enough to be clearly seen by the patient. The non transitory computer readable medium further determines the power of the prescription by enabling the patient to make at least one input to decrease the size of the second figure just until it can no longer be made out by the patient. The at least one input corresponds to a second sphere measurement. The non transitory computer readable medium determines a final sphere measurement based at least in part on the first sphere measurement and the second sphere measurement to determine.

An advantage of the present disclosure is to provide a patient more convenience in determining and receiving a glasses and or contacts prescription.

An advantage of the present disclosure is to reduce the cost and expense to the patient of determining and receiving a glasses and or contacts prescription.

Another advantage of the present disclosure is to determine a glasses and or contacts prescription without the need for expensive equipment only feasible for use in a doctor office.

Another advantage of the present disclosure is to determine a glasses and or contacts prescription without placing lenses before the eyes of the patient.

Still another advantage of the present disclosure is to more quickly determine a glasses and or contacts prescription.

A further advantage of the present disclosure is to more accurately determine the axis and cylinder astigmatism prescriptions of a patient.

Additional features and advantages are described herein and will be apparent from the following Detailed Description and the figures.

As indicated by block the system displays on a computerized screen a fillable form for a patient to make at least one input of a prior glasses or contacts prescription contacts brand name and or contacts manufacturer.

A computerized screen in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure includes without limitation a monitor a television display a plasma display a liquid crystal display LCD a display based on light emitting diodes LEDs a display based on a plurality of organic light emitting diodes OLEDs a display based on polymer light emitting diodes PLEDs a display based on a plurality of surface conduction electron emitters SEDs or any other suitable electronic device or display mechanism. In certain embodiments as described above the computerized screen includes a touch screen. It should be appreciated that the computerized screen may be of any suitable size shape and configuration.

The computerized screen displays a fillable form fillable fields or other vehicle for the patient to input data if the patient has such data including a prior glasses prescription a prior contacts prescription a prior contacts brand name and or a prior contacts manufacturer. The data related to the prior contacts prescription can be information from a box of the patient s contacts which they may still have in their possession. In one embodiment the computerized screen is part of a patient terminal which the patient may use to access the system and process.

In another example embodiment the fillable form may query the patient regarding their satisfaction with their current glasses or contact lenses as well as how often they wear the glasses or contact lenses.

As indicated by block the system receives at least one input of a prior glasses prescription a prior contacts prescription a prior contacts brand name and or a prior contacts manufacturer. It should be appreciated that the system may automatically fill in or populate the form fields or other vehicle based on other data input by the patient. As one non limiting example the patient may input a prior contacts brand name. The system may then use a look up table or other method to retrieve from memory the corresponding base curve and or diameter aspects of the prior prescription. This is especially possible with respect to contacts brand names or manufacturers who provide only one or a few possible base curve and or diameter sizes.

In one possible alternative to block the system may receive an input that the patient either does not have or does not wish to enter the requested prior prescription information as indicated by block . In one possible embodiment block is not a part of the process and the patient must enter prior prescription information before continuing to the next block. In another possible embodiment block is part of process and the patient is not required to enter any prior prescription information before continuing to the next block.

The system displays on the computerized screen a query to the patient regarding whether they are nearsighted or farsighted as indicated by block and receives at least one input from the patient in response to the query regarding whether they are nearsighted or farsighted as indicated by block .

At block the system displays a first diagram to the patient on the computerized screen intended for a first eye either right or left of the patient. It should be appreciated that the patient should view the first diagram with their uncorrected first eye i.e. if they wear glass or contacts they should remove them and view the diagram without the correction of their glasses or contacts.

The system receives an input from the patient regarding how they view the first diagram with their first eye wherein the input from the patient corresponds to an axis measurement for an astigmatism as indicated by block . It should be appreciated that the axis measurement can be used as at least one part of a skew function which the system may apply to other diagrams and figures displayed for the first eye. In one embodiment the system receives an input from a patient wherein the input indicates that they do not have an astigmatism in the eye being tested as indicated by block . In this embodiment the patient may either move on to blocks through with their first eye or they may repeat block with their second eye.

If the patient makes an input which indicates an axis measurement in accordance with block the system displays a second diagram on the computerized screen as indicated by block . In one embodiment the first diagram and second diagram are the same diagram. In another embodiment the first diagram and the second diagram are different diagrams. In one embodiment the second diagram is distorted based on the partial skew from the axis measurement determined from the patient s input at block . For example the second diagram may be stretched or elongated by some unit along the patient identified axis. In another embodiment the second diagram is not initially distorted.

The system receives at least one input from the patient wherein the at least one input corresponds to a cylinder measurement of the first eye as indicated by block . It should be appreciated that the cylinder measurement can be used as at least one part of a skew function which the system may apply to other diagrams and figures displayed for the first eye. The skew function is intended to correct for any astigmatism that the patient may have in the eye being tested. As such the skew function will make any diagram or figure it is applied appear distorted to a corrected eye while appearing clear to a corrected eye.

It should be appreciated that blocks through should be repeated separately for the second eye of the patient. After repeating blocks through for the second eye it should further be appreciated that the axis measurement and cylinder measurement for the second eye can be used as parts of a skew function which the system may apply to other diagrams and figures displayed for the second eye in the same way those measurements were described as being used for the first eye. It should further be appreciated that in one embodiment immediately after completing blocks through for a first eye the patient may switch to their second eye and again work through blocks through . In an alternative embodiment the patient may go on to other blocks for example blocks through with their first eye before returning to blocks through for their second eye.

At block the system displays a first figure to the patient on the computerized screen intended for a first eye either right or left of the patient. The first figure is displayed such that it is too small to be clearly seen by the patient. It should be appreciated that the patient should view the first figure with their uncorrected first eye i.e. if they wear glass or contacts they should remove them and view the figure without the correction of their glasses or contacts. In one example embodiment the first figure is distorted by the skew function determined with the patient inputs of blocks and for the patient s first eye. In another example embodiment the first figure is not distorted by the skew function.

The system receives an input from the patient regarding how they view the first figure with their first eye wherein the input from the patient corresponds to a first sphere measurement as indicated by block .

As indicated by block the system displays a second figure on the computerized screen wherein the second figure is displayed such that it is large enough to be clearly seen by the patient. In one embodiment the first figure and second figure are the same figure. In another embodiment the first figure and the second figure are different figures. In one embodiment the second figure is distorted It should be appreciated that the patient should view the second figure with their uncorrected first eye i.e. if they wear glass or contacts they should remove them and view the figure without the correction of their glasses or contacts. In one example embodiment the second figure is distorted by the skew function determined with the patient inputs of blocks and for the patient s first eye. In another example embodiment the second figure is not distorted by the skew function.

The system receives an input from the patient regarding how they view the second figure with their first eye wherein the input from the patient corresponds to a second sphere measurement as indicated by block . The system averages the first and second sphere measurements to determine a final sphere measurement as indicated by block . It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that the system can determine a final measurement in any suitable manner and it final measurement need not be the product of an straight average. For example the system may use only the last input result only the first input result some weighted average based on statistical variance from other inputs or the system may completely ignore inputs it considers to be of such a great statistical variance from other inputs that it is likely to be in error.

It should be appreciated that blocks through should be repeated separately for the second eye of the patient. It should further be appreciated that in one embodiment immediately after completing blocks through for their first eye the patient may switch to their second eye and again work through blocks through for their second eye. In an alternative embodiment the patient may have already completed blocks through with their second eye.

It should further be appreciated that the system may repeat sets of blocks and any number of times in any order and may alternate sets of blocks and with sets of blocks and any number of times. In one example embodiment the system works through blocks through for an eye of the patient then repeats blocks and again for the same eye before moving on to block . In this example embodiment the three resultant sphere measurements are averaged to determine the final sphere measurement at block . In another example embodiment the system works through blocks and then repeats blocks and then also works through blocks and two times. In this example embodiment the four resultant sphere measurements are averaged to determine the final sphere measurement at block .

As indicated by block the system displays on the computerized screen a query to the patient regarding whether they would like a glasses prescription a contacts prescription or both. At block the system receives an input from the patient regarding their desired prescription or prescriptions.

The system displays pricing information to the patient and conventionally enables the patient to select a method of payment and to provide payment information as indicated by block . Enabling the patient to select their method of payment and to provide payment information may be accomplished via a fillable form fillable fields or some other way as is well known in the art. The system receives at least one input from the patient regarding their desired method of payment and their payment information as indicated by block and provides the patient their requested and paid for prescription or prescriptions as indicated by block .

In one embodiment before the patient receives their prescription it is sent to one or more doctors to sign off on the various determined refractive error measurements. For example the system may send the axis measurement to be signed off upon by one doctor the cylinder measurement to be signed off upon by another doctor and the sphere measurement to be signed off upon by a third doctor. In an alternative example the system may send all three measurements to the same doctor for sign off. It should be appreciated that any combination of doctors signing off on any part of the prescription may be employed for any combination of cost and time effectiveness considerations.

It should be appreciated that the system may enable the patient to make an input regarding how or where to send their selected prescription after they have received it. In one embodiment the system may send the prescription data to an optometrist s or opthalmologist s offices a central glasses and or contacts fulfillment company a glasses and or contacts retail location physical or virtual or the like. In a further embodiment the patient may select where to send the prescription by choosing from a list a map entering a name or some other method.

In another embodiment the system may enable a patient to browse eyeglass frames. In such an embodiment the system may display an image of the patient with mock eyeglass frames displayed over the top of the patient s face and may enable the patient to modify the appearance of the frames for example by changing the size shape color material texture etc. of the mock frames. In another further embodiment the system may determine a location for the mock lenses on the face of the patient in any suitable manner such as via known facial or pupil recognition systems or via a system recognizable physical frame provided to and worn by a user. In another further embodiment the system may display instructions for a patient to purchase their desired frames online at a physical storefront location or to have them shipped to a desired location.

It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that the applicant has surprisingly discovered and disclosed herein a novel inversion of the conventional method of determining the refractive error for a patient. In the conventional technique the patient is located far from a figure or diagram and lenses of various strengths and configurations are placed before the patient s eyes. The patient provides subjective feedback on which of the lenses provides better vision quality. The doctor or technician refines the prescription by changing the lenses placed in front of the patient s eyes until the subjective feedback from the patient indicates that the best vision quality has been accomplished by one of the provided lenses. In contrast the embodiments of the present disclosure do not require any lenses. It should be appreciated that the diagrams and figures themselves are adjusted by the inputs of the patient and thus the necessary prescription may be determined in whole or in part from factors such as the distance between the patient and the computerized screen the original size of the diagram or figure on the computerized screen the patient adjusted size of the diagram or figure on the computerized screen the number of inputs received from the patient the amount of incremental effect of each input and other relevant factors.

It should further be appreciated that in some embodiments of the present disclosure the patient may indicate to a second person which input should be made. In those embodiments the second person would perform the input to the computerized screen based on the instructions of the patient. The second person may be any suitable person including a friend of the patient family member of the patient doctor office assistant office technician or any other person.

It also be appreciated that the present disclosure is not limited to a single computerized screen. In some embodiments the patient may use more than one computerized screen on one or more patient terminals to interact with the system. In another embodiment the patient and the second person may interact with the system on the same patient terminal and or computerized screen. In still another embodiment the patient and the second person may interact with the system on different patient terminals and or computerized screens.

In another embodiment the system may allow a patient to begin the process and method in one location such as a brick and mortar location and continue or complete the process and method in at least one other location such as in their home. It should be appreciated that in such an embodiment some kind of unique patient identification would be used to authenticate that the same patient is interacting with the system in the first location and the additional location s . Such authentication systems are known in the art and described below.

In another embodiment a patient may use one computerized screen to control another computerized screen. For example the system may enable a patient with a smartphone to use the smartphone as a remote to control another patient terminal with a computerized screen such as a kiosk personal computer or tablet computer in order to interact with the system. In one example of such an embodiment the system would send a patient a link to their remote device such as via email or SMS text message. The patient is enabled to access the link to launch an interface such as via a browser which can then be used to interact with the system in a unique hand held manner. In another example embodiment the remote device interacts with the system through an application stored on the remote device commonly known as an app. The remote device may be any suitable device such as a cell phone smart phone tablet notebook or other remote device that is capable of interacting nearly instantaneously with the system to receive instructions and enable the patient to make at least one input to the system over at least one communication interface such as the internet text messaging email voice or data to control the computerized screen from a distance. It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that such a system is unique in that it allows a patient to take a medical examination with their own smartphone or other remote device and fully be able to control the examination.

In another embodiment the system uses a voice recognition system to enable a patient to make at least one input. In a further embodiment the system includes a voice recognition system for conducting an eye examination or a sub examination of an eye examination. In a such an embodiment the system would enable a user to make an input by speaking to the system equipped with a microphone and conventional voice recognition software. As is known in the art microphones and voice recognition software are readily commercially available and use standard voice recognition formulas which embed a conventional automatic learning system so that the system would be able to adapt to more difficult languages over time. The system would receive voice inputs from the patient to record and analyze them using the conventional voice recognition software. It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that enabling a patient to provide inputs via their voice would provide several benefits. First the patient that is taking constituent tests of an examination such as an eye examination would not need to see the details of the screen perfectly clearly and could utilize their hearing communicated through spoken instructions and speaking to provide inputs back to the system instead which is more user friendly since it is easier to use and provides additional options for inputting responses. This is especially relevant for portions of the system in which the patient is using an uncorrected eye is somewhat distant from the computerized screen or both. Another benefit of such a system is that it enables a patient to use their hands for purposes other than providing inputs to the system. For example the patient may then be free to hold up test object or to cover their eyes. Further the use of a system which speaks to the patient and allows the patient to respond by speaking back simulates a more typical doctor s office based subjective eye examination and may help patient s assimilate to the system of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated. The example system of includes a display which the system shows on the above described computerized screen. The display includes progress bar and . It should be appreciated that the progress bar may be any suitable progress meter. In the embodiment of the progress bar and is a sectioned progress bar where the section currently being worked on is indicated by being a darker color than the other sections. It should be appreciated that for a sectioned type progress bar or other types of progress meters the indication of the section being worked on can be any variation in color size font text or otherwise. In another embodiment the sections of the progress bar are selectable by the patient such that the patient can move through the process by selecting the section of the process to which they wish to go. In a different embodiment the sections are not selectable by the patient to move the patient through the various sections.

In the embodiment illustrated by the system provides instructions for the patient regarding how to work through the section and further provides verbal instructions which the patient can control turn off turn on and or adjust by articulating the verbal direction control elements .

As illustrated by the embodiment shown in the system queries the patient regarding whether they have their prior glasses or contacts prescription . The patient is enabled to respond to the query by selecting one of the radio buttons or . It should be appreciated that any other method for accepting a response to a query from the patient may be employed by the system such as a drop down list a fillable field and or a check box.

In the embodiment of when the patient selects the radio button corresponding to YES the system provides the fillable form through . The system enables the patient to upload a picture of a prior glasses prescription and or a prior contacts prescription . The system also enables the patient to enter their prior prescription data into the conventional fillable fields through and through . Specifically the fillable form has fields for the glasses prescription of the patient s right eye or OD and . OD is the common acronym for the latin oculus dextrus which means right eye. The fillable form also has fields for the glasses prescription of the patient s left eye or OS and . OS is the common acronym for the latin oculus sinister which means left eye. More specifically fillable fields and are for the sphere or SPH or power measurement of the patient s right and left eyes respectively. The sphere measurement represents the degree of nearsightedness or farsightedness of the patient. The unit of the sphere measurement is the diopter. A plus sign in front of the sphere measurement indicates the amount of farsighedness of the patient while a negative sign in front of the sphere measurement indicates the amount of nearsightedness of the patient. The more positive for farsighted people or negative for nearsighted people the sphere measurement is the more severe the refractive error and thus the more powerful the corrective lenses must be to correct for the error.

The cylinder or CYL fields and for the right and left eye respectively and the axis fields and for their right and left eye respectively indicate that the patient has an astigmatism in the corresponding eye. If no astigmatism is present the cylinder and axis fields are conventionally left blank. The cylinder measurement indicates the severity in diopters of the astigmatism in the patient s eye. The bigger the cylinder measurement the more severe the astigmatism of the patient. The axis measurement is a number between 0 and 180 . The unit of the axis measurement is degrees. The axis measurement indicates the axis along which the patient s vision is distorted due to the imperfections in the curvature of the cornea.

The combination of sphere cylinder and axis measurements make up the distance vision portion of the conventional eyeglasses or contacts prescription. The remainder of the glasses prescription is directed to the near vision portion of the prescription and is generally for reading glasses or the reading portion of bifocal corrective lenses. The ADD fields and respectively for the right and left eyes of the patient represent the additional refractive power in diopters to be added to the spherical power in order to allow the patient to read up close if they are presbyopic. If the patient needs no correction for distance vision the ADD power alone would be the patient s prescription for conventional reading glasses available at most drugstores and or convenience stores.

In an example embodiment the system enables a patient to determine the ADD power for those patients who require it. Those patients are referred to as presbyopic emmetropes those that do not require spectacle correction for distance and their presbyopia is generally a result of aging typically occurring around approximately 40 years old. This is the age period when a patient generally begins to need reading glasses. However in the past in order to determine a correct reading glasses ADD number or to create a proper no lined progressive bifocal spectacle or contact lens patients needed to go to an eye doctor s office to obtain the proper measurement. Applicants have surprisingly found however a system for determining the power for both top and bottom portions of bifocal lenses which avoids the need to visit a doctor s office or endure a full and lengthy examination at the office. The system queries the patient regarding their age the size of figures they are able to see with their uncorrected eyes via any of the methods or processes disclosed herein and the distance they desired to be corrected for i.e. a patient may desire a single pair of glasses to see both books at 16 inches and to see other objects at 21 inches or any other combination of top segment and bottom segment . It should be appreciated that the desired distances can be determined by any suitable method such as via a computerized screen as disclosed herein such as a smartphone a simple printable paper measurement aid via estimation with a length of paper. The system may also enable a patient to estimate the distance range they most desire to be corrected for such as the distance range they use most often in easily estimable terms such as arms length further than arms length or closer than arms length. The system utilizes such inputs from the patient to determine a custom prescription for no line bifocals or single reading glasses without guessing or requiring a trip to a doctor s office and its associated expenses.

As shown in the contacts prescription includes many of the same measurement fields as the glasses prescription. Specifically the sphere measurement fields and the cylinder measurement fields and the axis measurement fields and and the add measurement fields and for the right and left eyes respectively are also present in the contacts prescription. Although the fields have the same names and abbreviations contacts prescriptions and glasses prescriptions can be different partly because the lenses of glasses are further from the surface of the eye than contacts.

In addition the system provides the additional measurement fields for the base curve or BC and the diameter or DIAM and and the name of the contacts brand and or manufacturer and . During the time when only hard gas permeable contact lenses were available the base curve and diameter measurements were necessary to ensure the comfort of the rigid lenses. With the rise of soft flexible contact lenses many contact lens manufacturers only provide one two or a few different base curve or diameter options for their lenses. If the base curve and diameter measurements are known from a prior prescription and the patient was comfortable in those lenses then other lenses with those same measurements are highly likely to also be comfortable for the patient even if the manufacturer is different. If the manufacturer is the same it is even more likely that the patient will be comfortable in lenses with the same measurement. In this way it should be appreciated that a contacts fitting is generally unnecessary for those who have previously worn contacts so long as the patient was comfortable in their prior lenses. In one embodiment for patient identified prior contacts manufacturers or brand names the base curve and diameter measurements can be looked up by the system in a lookup table or other memory database. In another embodiment the system can automatically fill in or populate any possible fields and or with the looked up base curve and diameter measurements.

In an embodiment the system can use the prior prescription information as a check on the determined current prescription. In a further embodiment the system can require more tests from a patient to confirm the current prescription if there is a statistically significant difference between a value of the prior prescription and the corresponding value of the determined prescription.

In one embodiment the system is capable of reading the uploaded picture or scan of the prior glasses prescription and or the prior contacts prescription . In a further embodiment the system may automatically fill in or populate any possible fillable fields with information read from the uploaded prior glasses prescription and or the prior contacts prescription . In another embodiment the patient may upload a photograph or scan of a prior contacts box or container and the system may automatically fill in or populate any possible fillable fields with information read from the uploaded photograph or scan of the prior contacts box or container. In another embodiment the system is capable of recognizing conventionally encoded information such as information from a barcode QR code matrix code Aztec code or other known types of encoded information. In a further embodiment the system is capable of scanning the encoded information from a prior glasses or contacts prescription and or a prior glasses or contacts box or container. In a still further embodiment the system may automatically fill in or populate any possible fillable fields with information read from the scanned prior glasses or contacts prescription and or a prior glasses or contacts box or container.

After the patient fills in whatever data the patient has available from prior prescriptions the system queries the patient regarding what appears more blurry or out of focus for them when they are not using corrective lenses . Again in the example embodiment of the system provides radio buttons and for the patient to select an answer but any suitable method for enabling an input to the query would be acceptable. If the patient selects distance as being more blurry this may suggest that they are nearsighted and they may have some astigmatism. If the patient selects near as being more blurry this may suggest that they are farsighted and they may have some astigmatism. If the patient selects both as being equally blurry they may be nearsighted or farsighted and they likely have an astigmatism.

As illustrated in the embodiment of when the patient responds to the query regarding whether they have a prior prescription with NO the system does not display the fillable form and fields through as in . Instead in the embodiment of the system moves directly to a presentation of query and enables the patient to respond via radio buttons and just as in .

Referring now to another embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated. At this stage of the process the system presents display and the progress bar indicates that the patient is currently in the Astigmatism Angle section . The eye tracker indicates which eye is being tested. It should be appreciated that the eye tracker may be any suitable progress meter. In the embodiment of the eye tracker is a sectioned eye tracker where the section corresponding to the eye being tested is indicated by being a darker color than the other section corresponding to the other eye. It should be appreciated that for a sectioned type eye tracker or other types of progress meters the indication of the eye being tested can be any variation in color size font text or otherwise. In another example embodiment the sections of the eye tracker are selectable by the patient such that the patient can change the eye being tested by selecting the section corresponding to the other eye. In a different embodiment the sections are not selectable by the patient to change the eye being tested.

As can be seen by reference to the eye tracker indicates that the eye being tested is the left eye indicated by the darker shading of the left eye section . Written instructions are provided to the patient along with verbal instructions which the patient can control with verbal direction control elements . In the example embodiment shown in the written directions read Cover your right eye. Select the line that is darker thicker or more prominent. If three lines are darker thicker or more prominent then select the middle. If two lines are darker thicker or more prominent then select the middle button between those lines. The directions refer the patient to the diagram . Diagram is a known diagram for diagnosing the axis of an astigmatism. Patients with an astigmatism will see the lines around the axis of their astigmatism as more bold or in better focus then the other lines of the diagram. The lines correspond to angle measurements. In this example embodiment the lines are evenly spaced at intervals of 15 . It should be appreciated that any suitable angular interval may be employed by the diagram . The system enables the patient to make an input of a line or the centermost part of a group of lines which are more prominent when the patient views the diagram. It should be appreciated that the patient is viewing the diagram with their uncorrected eye.

In the embodiment shown in the letters A through S as well as the smaller letter combination buttons are selectable to indicate the axis angle of the patient. It should be appreciated that the axis line selectable icons need not be letters but could be numbers the angle measurement pictures symbols or any other suitable icon. As shown in the letter A corresponds to an axis of 0 the letter G corresponds to an axis of 75 the letter J corresponds to an axis of 90 the letter 0 corresponds to an axis of 165 and the letter S corresponds to an axis of 180 . In another example embodiment the system provides a button for the patient to indicate that none of the lines in the diagram appears as darker thicker or more prominent indicating that the patient does not have an astigmatism in that eye. In a further example embodiment when the patient makes at least one input which indicates that they do not have an astigmatism in the eye being tested the system moves on to test the other eye for an astigmatism. In another embodiment when the patient makes at least one input which indicates that they do not have an astigmatism in the eye being tested the system moves on to the eye test for that same eye skipping the section testing the astigmatism severity for that eye. In an alternative embodiment when the patient makes at least one input which indicates that they do not have an astigmatism in the eye being tested the system still tests the severity of any astigmatism in that eye as a double check that the patient does not have an astigmatism in that eye.

It should be appreciated that after selecting the line or lines of the patient s axis measurement for the patient s left eye as shown in the system may repeat the same test with diagram for the right eye by moving the eye tracker to indicate that the right eye is being tested and by adjusting the written instructions to reflect that the right eye is now being tested. In another embodiment the patient continues to work through the sections of the progress bar with the left eye and after completing the astigmatism severity test for the left eye will repeat the two astigmatism sections and for the right eye before moving on to the eye test for either eye. In another embodiment the patient works through all sections and with one eye the left eye for example before going back to work through each section and with the other eye in this example the right eye. It should further be appreciated that any order of testing with any order of eyes being tested is suitable. It should further be appreciated that by providing patient selectable progress bar sections and and eye tracker sections and the patient may select whichever order they prefer.

Referring now to the embodiment illustrated in another example embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated. At this stage of the process the system presents display and the progress bar indicates that the patient is currently in the Astigmatism Severity section . The eye tracker indicates that the left eye is being tested. The written directions read Cover your right eye. 1. Keep Right Eye covered. 2. Click the until the grid is all perfect squares. The written instructions refer to diagram which shows a large square divided into several smaller squares. The system provides patient selectable icons and to adjust the diagram until the patient views all of the grid of diagram as perfectly square. When the patient views all of the grid of diagram as perfectly square the patient selects the patient selectable icon . If the system is malfunctioning in some way the system provides a button to request assistance with the malfunction. It should be appreciated that button is optional but useful in the case that the animation of the diagram changing is not visible to the patient. It should further be appreciated that diagram in is illustrated as it would appear to a patient without an astigmatism or to a patient with an astigmatism who is wearing their corrective lens on the eye being tested. In other words the boxes of diagram are square in but would appear distorted to an uncorrected eye with an astigmatism.

The applicant has surprisingly found that use of the grid shown as diagram can be used to determine the cylinder prescription of a patient by measuring the amount of distortion is necessary along the patient s axis of astigmatism in order for the patient to view the figure as square to their uncorrected eye.

Referring now to the embodiments illustrated in other embodiments of the present disclosure are illustrated. In the embodiments of these figures the patient has selected icons and of respectively. Thus the corresponding diagrams of those respectively are illustrated as being stretched along the patient selected axis for that figure. Specifically shows the diagram distorted along the 75 axis shows the diagram distorted along the 90 axis shows the diagram distorted along the 165 axis and shows diagram distorted along the 180 axis. If the patient selects the the diagram elongates along the axis. If the patient selects the the diagram contracts along the axis. In this way the patient can manipulate the diagram until the boxes appear square to their uncorrected eye. As the patient manipulates the diagram scale provides a visual representation to the patient of how much they have changed the diagram or

It should be appreciated that the system may distort the diagram in any suitable way at any suitable speed and at any suitable increment. In one embodiment the system automatically distorts the diagram prior to enabling the patient to make an input. In another embodiment the system automatically begins distorting the diagram and continues to distort the diagram until the patient makes an input to stop the distortion. In a further embodiment the patient may further adjust the distortion of the diagram by making at least one input. In another further embodiment the patient may not further adjust the distortion of the diagram by making any inputs. In another embodiment the system does not distort the diagram prior to receiving at least one input from the patient.

Referring now to the embodiment illustrated in another embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated. As shown in the patient has manipulated diagram such that to the patient s uncorrected eye the boxes appear square. Scale demonstrates that the diagram has been manipulated. At this point the patient can press the icon indicating that they view the boxes of the diagram as square. The system determines from the amount of manipulation of diagram a cylinder measurement for that eye of the patient.

It should be appreciated that the combination of the axis measurement and the cylinder measurement for a given eye of the patient can be used by the system to determine a skew function to apply to further diagrams and figures intended for the given eye. In this way the astigmatism will not affect the results of the eye test for example because the figures used in the eye test will have been modified to counter the effect of the astigmatism.

Referring now to the embodiment illustrated in another example embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated. At this stage of the process the system presents display and the progress bar indicates that the patient is currently in the Eye Test section . Specifically the display in is directed to calibrating a camera which may be attached to the computerized screen to determine the distance of the patient from the computerized screen. The system must know the distance of the patient in order to accurately calculate the sphere measurements from the eye tests. If the patient s computerized screen does not have a camera the system will provide the patient a specified distance to remain away from the screen. This distance may be the same or different for each instance of the small to large eye test described at blocks and of and or each instance of the large to small eye test described at blocks and of .

The written instructions of the example embodiment illustrated by read 1. Hold a credit card with the magnetic strip facing the camera. 2. Place the card 11 from the camera. 3. Use a piece of paper to measure 11 . Roll the paper the long way. Place one end touching the screen near the camera and the other touching the credit card. Remove the paper and keep the card in place. Click the Calibrate button. 4. Click on the magnetic strip in the picture. 5. When magnetic strip is highlighted click the Done button. Camera viewer shows the patient what the camera is viewing. The patient can follow the instructions to click the Calibrate button and the Done button in accordance with the written instructions. It should be appreciated that any other suitable or conventional method of calibrating the distance between the patient and the computerized screen may be employed.

It should be appreciated that any suitable distance between the patient and the screen may be used. In one embodiment the distance between the patient and the screen is determined based on whether the patient is nearsighted or farsighted. In a further embodiment the system determines that the distance between the patient and the screen is the same for a nearsighted patient and a farsighted patient. In another embodiment the system determines that the distances between the patient and the screen are different for a nearsighted patient and a farsighted patient. In one embodiment the system may determine the distance between the patient and the screen depending on the kind type dimensions or other characteristics of the screen. In another embodiment the patient may be enabled to make an input regarding whether the determined input is difficult for the patient to use. In a further embodiment the system may determine a new distance between the patient and the screen after the patient makes an input regarding whether the determined input is difficult for the patient to use.

In another example embodiment they system or patient terminal may utilize mirrors to simulate the a greater or lesser distance between the patient and the computerized screen such as is conventional in projection technology or in for example a optometrist s office. In a further example embodiment the mirrors are adjustable based on the location of the patient such that the patient may move and the mirrors may adjust to account for the movement to maintain the same simulated distance.

In an additional example embodiment the system may query the patient for their shoe size and gender and using that information have the patient estimate their distance from the computerized screen via heel to toe measurement and enter that distance into the system. In an alternative example embodiment the system may instruct the patient to take a determined number of heel to toe steps from the computerized screen placing the patient at a fairly accurate distance from the computerized screen.

Referring now to the embodiment illustrated in another embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated. At this stage of the process the system presents display and the progress bar indicates that the patient is currently in the Eye Test section . The eye tracker indicates that the left eye is being tested. For systems with cameras the system provides a calibration box with an estimate of the distance of the patient from the camera computerized screen. In one embodiment the system uses the camera measured distance of the patient from the screen to determine a font size or an icon size to display to the patient as part of .

The written instructions read Cover your right eye. Move your face 28 inches from the screen. Click I can see when you can just barely recognize the letters from that distance. DON T WAIT UNTIL IT IS CLEAR Use the and to make sure the letters are just barely recognizable. The written instructions refer to which in this embodiment is a series of letters. It should be appreciated that any suitable kind or number of visual cues symbols shapes or icons can make up the such as letters numbers pictures or the like. As shown in the system provides patient selectable icons and to adjust the figure until the patient views the figure as just barely being able to make out the letters of the figure. When the patient views the figure and can just barely make out the letters the patient selects the patient selectable icon . In one embodiment the starts small enough that the figures cannot be clearly seen by the patient and the patient must make at least one input to increase the size of the figure until it can just barely be made out. In another embodiment shown in the figure starts large enough to be clearly seen by the patient and the patient must make at least one input to decrease the size of the figure just until the figure can no longer be made out.

The system determines a sphere measurement from at least one input from a small to large eye test. The system determines another sphere measurement from at least one input of a large to small eye test. As discussed previously the small to large eye test and the large to small eye test may be performed any number of times in any order for each eye with each eye test resulting in a sphere measurement determined from the at least one input of the patient. In one embodiment the system may perform only the small to large eye test and not the large to small eye test. In another embodiment the system may perform only the large to small eye test and not the small to large eye test. Either or both eye tests may be performed one or more times per eye of the patient. When the system has provided all instances of the eye test to both eyes the system averages the sphere measurements from the eye test instances to determine a final sphere measurement. It should be appreciated that the system may determine not to use a given sphere measurement in the final sphere measurement if it is a statistically significant unit of measurement away from the average of the remaining resultant sphere measurements. In one embodiment the system takes the mean of the resultant sphere measurements as the final sphere measurement.

It should be appreciated that the system may adjust the size of the figure in any suitable way at any suitable speed and at any suitable increment. In one embodiment the system automatically increases for the small to large test or decreases for the large to small test the figure prior to enabling the patient to make an input. In another embodiment the system automatically begins increasing or decreasing the figure and continues to increase or decrease the figure until the patient makes an input to stop the increasing or decreasing. In a further embodiment the patient may further adjust the size of the figure by making at least one input. In another further embodiment the patient may not further adjust the size of the figure by making any inputs. In another embodiment the system does not increase or decrease the figure prior to receiving at least one input from the patient.

It should be appreciated that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented in accordance with or in conjunction with one or more of a variety of different types of systems such as but not limited to those described below.

Referring now to another embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated wherein the system displays at least one colorblocked diagram and enables a patient to make at least one input to select a more defined appearing part of the diagram wherein the input corresponds to a determination that the patient is near or far sighted if not wearing corrective lenses over or under corrected if wearing corrective lenses or otherwise. The colorblocked diagram may be presented once twice or more in a series for each eye. The colorblocked diagram may be the same or slightly different for each presentation to the patient. In the examples shown in the colorblocked diagrams are slightly different.

The colorblocked diagram has at least two parts shown as part and part . In the embodiment shown in parts and are semicircles having a background color. In the examples shown in part has a brighter background color while part has a duller background color. It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that any suitable brighter and duller colors may be used as the background color of parts and respectively. In one embodiment part has a background from the green family of colors including the various colors of green from dark to light bright to dark and mixed with other colors i.e. yellow green or blue green while part has a background from the red family of colors including the various colors of red from dark to light bright to dark and mixed with other colors i.e. purple red or red orange . In another embodiment part has a background from the yellow family while part has a background from the purple family.

Parts and further include a plurality of lines of various lengths that when placed closed together and viewed from a short distance appear as an arrowhead shape. In each of the arrow directions face away from each other and are comprised of horizontal or vertical lines . It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that any suitable number of lines straight or curved in any suitable density arranged into any suitable direction making up any suitable aggregate shape may be used. In another further embodiment the lengths may be replaced by solid or semi solid shapes such as circles squares triangles letters numbers etc. It should further be appreciated that parts and may be shapes other than semicircles such as half squares half triangles etc.

As discussed above the colorblocked diagram in one or more of its configurations may be used to determine whether a patient is near or far sighted if not wearing corrective lenses. The system may instruct the patient to remove any corrective lenses such as glasses or contacts before using the system. The system presents a colorblocked diagram to one eye of the patient and enables the patient to make an input regarding which of the arrow parts appears more distinct to their uncorrected eye. In one embodiment the patient may select that part with the brighter background looks more distinct i.e. sharper or more defined that part with the duller background looks more distinct or that the arrows on parts and are about equally distinct. In general a selection that part with the brighter background is more distinct than part with the duller background suggests that the patient is farsighted. In general a selection that part with the duller background is more distinct than part with the brighter background suggests that the patient is nearsighted. It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that performing two or more tests per eye with colorblocked diagrams having arrows pointing in different directions will assist in mitigating any subjective error from the patient. In an embodiment the patient is presented with in any order for their first eye than A to D in any order for their second eye. The system uses the results of the one two three four or more colorblocked diagram tests to determine the near or far sightedness of the patient.

It should be appreciated that the tests shown by example in may also be used to determine if a patient is over or under corrected if performed while wearing corrective lenses. In one example embodiment the patient performs the same steps described immediately above individually for each eye while using their corrective lenses. In this example embodiment a selection that part with the brighter background is more distinct than part with the duller background suggests that the patient is overcorrected with their present corrective lenses while a selection that part with the duller background is more distinct than part with the brighter background suggests that the patient is under corrected by their present corrective lenses.

Referring now to another embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated. is a screen shot of an example of an embodiment of the system of the present disclosure wherein the system displays a line diagram and enables a patient to make at least one input to affect the rotation of the line diagram wherein the at least one input corresponds to an axis measurement. In the example embodiment shown in the line diagram is a line or a long thin rectangle on a solid background. The rectangle line is made up of alternating parts and . Alternating parts and are different colors. In the embodiment of part has a brighter background color while part has a duller background color. It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that any suitable brighter and duller colors may be used as the background color of parts and respectively. In one embodiment part has a background from the green family of colors including the various colors of green from dark to light bright to dark and mixed with other colors i.e. yellow green or blue green while part has a background from the red family of colors including the various colors of red from dark to light bright to dark and mixed with other colors i.e. purple red or red orange . In another embodiment part has a background from the yellow family while part has a background from the purple family.

The alternating parts and may be any suitable shape or size. For example in the alternating parts and are squares which make up the rectangle line of line diagram without any space between the parts. It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that two or more alternating parts may be used.

The system presents the line diagram to the patient. In one embodiment the system begins rotating the diagram about its center. In another embodiment the patient makes an input to begin rotation of the diagram about its center. The rotation is slow enough that the patient can identify changes. In one embodiment the patient may make an input to speed up or slow down the rotation of the diagram . In another embodiment the diagram does not rotate automatically and the patient must make an input corresponding to each rotation of the diagram .

The applicant has surprisingly found that use of a line diagram such as line diagram can be used to determine the axis prescription of a patient to within 1 of accuracy. Because the effect of an astigmatism is to distort or stretch a patient s vision along an axis when the line diagram is near or at the patient s axis of astigmatism the alternating parts and will blur together and appear as a different color than either of the parts individually. In one example embodiment where part is green and part is red the line appears yellow at or near the axis of the patient s astigmatism. It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that if the patient does not have an astigmatism the line will not appear to change color.

The rotational axis of the line diagram is composed of angles ranging from 0 degrees to 360 degrees. However in an optical prescription angles are written in 0 degrees to 180 degrees. Thus one of skill in the art will appreciated that angles 0 and 180 are the same 170 and 350 are the same 100 and 280 are the same and so on and so forth. The axis line extends below the 180 point and that is why angles above 180 also have a corresponding equivalence below 180 .

In an embodiment of they system of the present disclosure the system presents the patient with the line diagram which may rotate by system or patient direction as described above. The patient viewing the diagram with one corrected eye at a time is enabled to make an input corresponding to when they see the line appear to change color. In one embodiment the patient is prevented from making an input that the line did not change color until at least one or more full rotations of the line have been completed. In another embodiment once a patient makes an input indicating that the line appeared to change color the patient is enabled to make further fine tuning inputs causing small rotations to the line until the patient makes another input corresponding to the angle at which the changed color appears most distinctly i.e. strongest darkest or most clear . In one embodiment the fine tuning inputs cause a rotation of 1 . It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that other fine tuning increments can be used such as 2 5 or 10 . Since conventional subjective axis determination techniques use increments of 10 and since an astigmatism can be along any axis at any degree any increment less than 10 should yield a more accurate determination than the phoropter system used by eye care professionals in office. The angle selected by the input corresponding to the angle at which the changed color appears most distinctly is the axis prescription of the patient. The system then repeats the process for the other uncorrected eye of the patient.

In an embodiment the system enables the patient to make an input reflecting that the line did not appear to change color. It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that such an input would suggest that the patient does not have an astigmatism in that eye. In a further embodiment the system gives the patient an additional axis test for that eye such as that described in . In a different further embodiment the system permits the patient to skip the cylinder test and go right to an axis test for the other eye or another kind of test such as the power test.

Referring now to another embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated. is a screen shot of an example of an embodiment of the system of the present disclosure wherein the system displays a line diagram and enables a patient to make at least one input to affect the spacing or size of various parts of the line diagram wherein the at least one input corresponds to an cylinder measurement.

The applicant has surprisingly found that use of a line diagram such as line diagram can be used to accurately determine the cylinder prescription of a patient. Because the effect of an astigmatism is to distort or stretch a patient s vision along an axis when the alternating parts are stretched to correspond to the severity of the patient s astigmatism the patient s eye will once again be able to resolve the alternating parts in their actual colors. It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that if the patient does not have an astigmatism the line will only appear with the alternating parts in their actual colors.

The line diagram shown in the example embodiment of is different from in that it is used to determine the severity of astigmatism for a patient. If it was previously determined that the patient has an axis of astigmatism this is the next test to determine how much astigmatism that individual has. Line diagram is first shown in the angle of astigmatism that was determined in the axis determination test described with reference to and has alternating parts and similar to those described above with reference to . As confirmed previously during the test described with reference to the line diagram should appear as a different color than the alternating parts and . In the example where alternating parts and are green and red respectively the line diagram at the axis of astigmatism for the patient being tested should appear yellow to the patient.

The system presents the line diagram to one uncorrected eye of a patient at a time. In one embodiment the system automatically increases the size i.e. length and or width of the alternating parts and until the patient makes an input indicating that they can see the colors of the alternating parts again. The patient is enabled to make fine tuning inputs to change the size of the alternating parts until the size where they can first see the alternating colors. In an embodiment where line diagram first appears yellow to a patient even though parts and are green and red respectively the patient would make an input when they begin to see the green and red parts and again. In another embodiment the system does not automatically change the size of the alternating parts and enables the patient to make inputs corresponding to all size changes.

In another embodiment the system begins by inserting space between the alternating parts and until the patient makes an input indicating that they can see the colors of the alternating parts again. The patient is enabled to make fine tuning inputs to change the spacing of the alternating parts until the size where they can first see the alternating colors. In another embodiment the system does not automatically change the spacing of the alternating parts and enables the patient to make inputs corresponding to all spacing changes.

It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that the size and spacing changes can be made in the same test at the same time or sequentially in any order. In one example embodiment the size of the alternating parts and changes until the patient make an input at which point the system enables the patient to make fine tuning inputs affecting the size spacing or both of the alternating parts. In another example embodiment the spacing of the alternating parts and changes until the patient make an input at which point the system enables the patient to make fine tuning inputs affecting the spacing size or both of the alternating parts. The system determines the astigmatism severity or cylinder prescription of the patient from the final size and or spacing of the alternating parts. The system then repeats the process for the other uncorrected eye of the patient.

Referring now to another embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated. is a screen shot of an example of an embodiment of the system of the present disclosure wherein the system displays a line diagram and enables a patient to make at least one input wherein the at least one input corresponds to a cylinder measurement. is a screen shot of an example of an embodiment of the system of the present disclosure wherein the figure of A is rotatable to align with the determined axis of a patient s astigmatism.

In the example embodiment shown in the line diagram is a series of lines or long thin rectangles on a solid background. The series of lines includes lines of different sizes. In the example embodiment shown in the lines increase in size as they are view from the top of diagram to the bottom of diagram . The rectangles lines are made up of alternating parts and . Alternating parts and are different colors one brighter and the other duller similar to the alternating parts and discussed above. In the embodiment of part has a brighter background color while part has a duller background color.

It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that the size of the lines or alternating parts and the spacing between the lines or the alternating parts may be any suitable amount. For example show the lines separated by space but the alternating parts of each line are immediately adjacent. In another example embodiment the alternating parts may have space between them and the lines may be immediately adjacent.

The system presents the line diagram or to one uncorrected eye of a patient at a time. The patient is enabled to make at least one input to select one or more lines that appear different in color from the remaining lines. In one example embodiment where part is green and part is red a line of alternating parts appears yellow below the cylinder or astigmatism severity of the patient s astigmatism. The selection may be accomplished in any suitable manner such as by selecting and clicking a line or a button representing a line such as buttons .

The applicant has surprisingly found that use of a line diagram such as line diagrams and can be used to accurately determine the cylinder prescription of a patient. Because the effect of an astigmatism is to distort or stretch a patient s vision along an axis when the alternating parts are stretched to correspond to the severity of the patient s astigmatism the patient s eye will once again be able to resolve the alternating parts in their actual colors. It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that if the patient does not have an astigmatism the lines will only appear with the alternating parts in their actual colors.

Referring now to another embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated. is a screen shot of an example of an embodiment of the system of the present disclosure wherein the system displays a concentric semi circle diagram and enables a patient to make at least one input wherein the at least one input corresponds to an axis and or a cylinder measurement.

In the example embodiment shown in the semi circle diagram is a half circle on a solid background. The half circle is made up of alternating parts and arranged into concentric half circles. Alternating parts and are different colors one brighter and the other duller similar to the alternating parts and discussed above. In the embodiment of part has a brighter background color while part has a duller background color.

The alternating parts and may be any suitable shape or size with any suitable spacing between them. For example in the alternating parts and are concentric curved rectangular slices which make up the semi circle of diagram without any space between the parts. It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that two or more alternating parts may be used. In the example embodiment of the semi circle diagram is divided into wedges by radii lines . It should be appreciated that radii lines can be placed at any suitable angular distance from each other such as at 1 2 5 10 or 30 degrees or at other degree increments. It is preferable that the angular distance be evenly divisible into 180 degrees. As shown in the radii lines are placed 20 degrees apart.

The system presents the semi circle diagram to one uncorrected eye of a patient at a time. The patient is enabled to make at least one input to select one or more wedges that looks different in color from the remaining wedges. The selection may be accomplished in any suitable manner such as by selecting and clicking a wedge or a button representing a wedge such as buttons .

The applicant has surprisingly found that use of a semi circle diagram such as semi circle diagram can be used to determine the axis prescription of a patient. Because the effect of an astigmatism is to distort or stretch a patient s vision along an axis at the portion of the semi circle diagram nearby to the patient s axis of astigmatism the alternating parts and will blur together and appear as a different color than either of the parts individually. In one example embodiment where part is green and part is red a portion of a wedge appears yellow at or near the axis of the patient s astigmatism. It should be appreciated by one of skill I the art that a greater blurring of the colors away from the center of the circle diagram indicates a more severe astigmatism cylinder measurement. It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that if the patient does not have an astigmatism none of the portions of the wedges will appear to change color.

Referring now to another embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated. is a screen shot of an example of an embodiment of the system of the present disclosure wherein the system displays a spoke diagram and enables a patient to make at least one input wherein the at least one input corresponds to a gross axis measurement.

In the example embodiment shown in the spoke diagram is a series of lines or long thin rectangles on a solid background arranged as radii lines on a half circle dark background . In the example embodiment shown in the lines are approximately the same size. The rectangles lines are made up of alternating parts and . Alternating parts and are different colors one brighter and the other duller similar to the alternating parts and discussed above. In the embodiment of part has a brighter background color while part has a duller background color.

The system presents the spoke diagram to one uncorrected eye of a patient at a time. The patient is enabled to make at least one input to select one or more lines that appear different in color from the remaining lines. In one example embodiment where part is green and part is red a line of alternating parts appears yellow at or near the axis of the patient s astigmatism. The selection may be accomplished in any suitable manner such as by selecting and clicking a line or a button representing a line such as buttons .

Referring now to another embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated. is a screen shot of an example of an embodiment of the system of the present disclosure wherein the system displays fine spoke diagram which is a smaller angular portion of spoke diagram and enables a patient to make at least one input wherein the at least one input corresponds to a fine axis measurement.

In the example embodiment shown in the spoke diagram is a series of lines or long thin rectangles on a solid background arranged as radii lines on a portion of a half circle dark background. In the example embodiment shown in the lines are approximately the same size. The rectangles lines are made up of alternating parts and . Alternating parts and are different colors one brighter and the other duller similar to the alternating parts and discussed above. In the embodiment of part has a brighter background color while part has a duller background color.

The system presents the spoke diagram to one uncorrected eye of a patient at a time. The patient is enabled to make at least one input to select one or more lines that appear different in color from the remaining lines. In one example embodiment where part is green and part is red a line of alternating parts appears yellow at or near the axis of the patient s astigmatism. The selection may be accomplished in any suitable manner such as by selecting and clicking a line or a button representing a line such as buttons . It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that the fine spoke diagram represents the portion of the gross spoke diagram which the patient previously selected as appearing different in color from the other portions of the diagram. It should further be appreciated that fine spoke diagram uses smaller angular increments between the radii lines to provide a more accurate angular axis determination. In another example embodiment the patient may first select a wedge from the semi circle diagram then use the fine axis diagram to fine tune the axis determination. In such example the angular portion used in diagram would correspond to the wedge section or sections selected by the patient as appearing different from the remainder of the wedges in .

The applicant has surprisingly found that use of a spoke diagram such as spoke diagrams and can be used to accurately determine the axis prescription of a patient. Because the effect of an astigmatism is to distort or stretch a patient s vision along an axis at the portion of the spoke diagram nearby to the patient s axis of astigmatism the alternating parts and of diagram and parts and of diagram will blur together and appear as a different color than either of the parts individually. It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that if the patient does not have an astigmatism none of the lines will appear to change color. It will further be appreciated that any suitable sizing spacing or shape of alternating parts may be used so long as they are along the various axes.

Referring now to another embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated. is a screen shot of an example of an embodiment of the system of the present disclosure wherein the system displays line diagram and enables a patient to make at least two inputs wherein the at least two inputs correspond to a cylinder measurement.

In the example embodiment shown in the line diagram is a line or a long thin rectangle on a solid dark background. The rectangle line is made up of alternating parts and . Alternating parts and are different colors one brighter and the other duller similar to the alternating parts and discussed above. In the embodiment of part has a brighter background color while part has a duller background color.

The applicant has surprisingly found that when a patient with astigmatism views a diagram like they will see a doubled line or two lines instead of the single line presented in the diagram. The applicant has further surprisingly found that the amount of distance between the two appearing lines corresponds to the cylinder measurement of the patient. It should be appreciated that a patient without an astigmatism will only see the single line.

The system displays the line diagram to one uncorrected eye of a patient at a time. The patient is enabled to make at least two inputs to select the edge of a first appearing line and to select the edge of the second appearing line as shown by arrows and in . In this way the patient is identifying the distance between the two appearing lines. The patient is also enabled to select that they only see one line indicating that they do not have an astigmatism or that the size of the alternating parts is above their cylinder axis. In such an example the system may re present the diagram with smaller alternating parts. The selection of beginning and ending points of the two appearing lines may be accomplished in any suitable manner.

Referring now to another embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated. is a screen shot of an example of an embodiment of the system of the present disclosure wherein the system displays line diagram and enables a patient to make at least one input wherein the at least one input corresponds to a cylinder measurement.

In the example embodiment shown in the line diagram is a line or a long thin rectangle on a solid background wherein the width and height of the line increases when viewed from left to right. The rectangle line is made up of alternating parts and . Alternating parts and are different colors one brighter and the other duller similar to the alternating parts and discussed above. In the embodiment of part has a brighter background color while part has a duller background color. It should be appreciated that any suitable arrangement of differently sized lines is appropriate. For example the width and height of the line may decrease from left to right or the line may be oriented vertically or at any angle relative to horizontal as opposed to horizontally. In another example there may be space between the differently sized line segments. In the example embodiment shown in there is no space between the differently sized line segments.

The system displays the line diagram to one uncorrected eye of a patient at a time. The patient is enabled to make at least one input to select one or more line segments that appear different in color from the remaining lines. In one example embodiment where part is green and part is red a line segment of alternating parts appears yellow below the cylinder or astigmatism severity of the patient s astigmatism. The selection may be accomplished in any suitable manner such as by selecting and clicking a line segment or a button representing a line segment such as buttons .

The applicant has surprisingly found that use of a line diagram such as line diagram can be used to accurately determine the cylinder prescription of a patient. Because the effect of an astigmatism is to distort or stretch a patient s vision along an axis when the alternating parts are stretched to correspond to the severity of the patient s astigmatism the patient s eye will once again be able to resolve the alternating parts in their actual colors. It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that if the patient does not have an astigmatism the lines will only appear with the alternating parts in their actual colors.

Referring now to other embodiments of the present disclosure are illustrated. are screen shots of example embodiments of the system of the present disclosure which demonstrate that the alternating parts may be of different sizes or spacing but still test for the same determination in the astigmatism severity determination. From to the spacing between the alternating parts increases. However so long as the sizing and spacing is known each of are usable by the system.

Referring now to another embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated. is a screen shot of an example of an embodiment of the system of the present disclosure which demonstrates that the alternating parts may be of different sizes or spacing but still test for the same astigmatism axis determination. Contrast for example with which has larger alternating parts. However so long as the sizing and spacing is known each of and are usable by the system.

Referring now to another embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated. is a screen shot of an example of an embodiment of the system of the present disclosure which demonstrates that an astigmatism axis gross determination figure may be modified in size and shape and stretched in minor fashion and still be usable by the system for determining an axis of astigmatism for a patient. For example shows a slight horizontal stretch as compared to the perfectly semicircular figure of . also shows in contrast to smaller alternating parts and a greater number of wedges of the figure which do not meet at a center point of the semicircular figure.

In another example embodiment the system may test or confirm a patient s astigmatism axis by displaying only certain axes. For example the system may display a set of shapes such as circles filled with lines of alternating colors bright and dull as described above. In this example embodiment all of the lines in a given circle would be of the same axis and the lines in the remaining circles could be at other axes. The system would enable the patient to make at least one input to select a circle that appears blurry to each of their uncorrected eyes tested individually. For instance in the case where the bright color is selected from the green family and the dull color is selected from the red family the patient may select the circle that appears yellow. Based on the at least one input from the patient the system can determine or confirm the patient s axis prescription. For example in a situation where the test is being given to confirm a prescription the system will determine if the prescription is confirmed by comparing the axis of the patient s selected circle or circles to the axis it previously determined. If the axis measurements match or are close then the prescription is confirmed. It should be appreciated that any suitable number of shapes any suitable number of axes and any suitable number of iterations of the test may be utilized by the system to initially test or to confirm an axis prescription for a patient.

In another example embodiment the system may test or confirm a patient s cylinder prescription by displaying spaced apart shapes. Applicant has surprisingly found that spaced apart shapes located along the patient s axis of astigmatism and spaced correspondingly to the cylinder of the patient or higher will appear to touch when viewed with the patient s uncorrected eye each eye individually . For example the system may display two or more dots in a grid or any other suitable pattern where at least two of the dots we spaced along the patient s axis of astigmatism. The system would enable the patient to make at least one input to select or otherwise identify the dots that appear to each of their uncorrected eyes tested individually to be touching. Based on the at least one input from the patient the system can determine or confirm the patient s cylinder prescription where the actual distance between the dots that appear to the uncorrected eye of the patient to be touching corresponds to a cylinder measurement. For example in a situation where the test is being given to confirm a prescription the system will determine if the prescription is confirmed by comparing the cylinder of the patient s selected dots to the cylinder it previously determined. If the cylinder measurements match or are close then the prescription is confirmed. It should be appreciated that any suitable number of shapes any suitable number of axes any suitable colors and any suitable number of iterations of the test may be utilized by the system to initially test or to confirm a cylinder prescription for a patient. It should further be appreciated that the spaced apart shapes may be spaced at different intervals or that more than one display with varying intervals between the shapes may be used in order to fine tune the cylinder determination.

It should be appreciated that all the astigmatism determination tests described with reference to can consist of alternating parts in any suitable shapes including but not limited to the squares and rectangles depicted in the Figures and any suitable number or combination of alternating colors in any suitable color families. It should further be appreciated that whenever a patient cannot see a color change relative to the other figures displayed it may be because of one of the following issues 1 the patient does not have an astigmatism 2 the size of the displayed alternating parts corresponds to a higher cylinder error than the patient has and or 3 the diagram is not at the patient s axis of astigmatism. To address situation 1 the system may enable a patient to make an input indicating that they do no have an astigmatism. To address situation 2 the system may decrease the size of the alternating parts re display the diagram and query the patient again regarding any perceived color change. To address situation 3 the system may re determine the axis by presenting the patient with a same or with a different axis test.

Referring now to another embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated. is a screen shot of an example of an embodiment of the system of the present disclosure which demonstrates a possible configuration for a macular degeneration test. By using such a test the system enables a patient to conduct an examination of the locations in which they have lost a partial amount or full amount of vision. As is well known in the art it is standard practice for optometrists to test this using a simple grid on a sheet of paper lines left to right and top to bottom with a marked center. The patient is told to stare at the center with one eye at a time and draw with a pencil any area that appear distorted missing or otherwise different than the rest. The optometrist notes in the patient s chart which parts of their retina are damaged. Such a test is useful for macular degeneration where patients lose their central vision as well as other retinal issues such as diabetic retinopathy where specific parts of ones vision become missing or blurry. In contrast to this prior art system the system of the present disclosure is more advanced. The system displays a figure including a set of curved lines. In the embodiment shown in the has generally semicircular curved lines opening to the right and a center region . The system instructs the patient to focus on the center region with a single uncorrected eye at a time and enables the patient to select any lines which appear to have blurry or missing portions. Alternatively the system enables the patient to select the portions of the lines which appear to be blurry or missing. The system then displays a similar set of curved lines but this time with the opening facing some other direction such as left. In one embodiment the second figure is displayed as opening to the opposite side as the first figure. It should be appreciated that the orientation of the curved lines may differ in shape or actual apex angle and may be any suitable shape or apex angle. The system increases the intensity of the user selected lines or parts of lines and enables the patient to make at least one input regarding whether their vision is improved in those areas based on the increase in intensity. In should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that the at least one input corresponds to a magnification level for that region of a patient s vision which corresponds to a particular location on the patient s retina which has experienced at least some vision loss. The system may then use the determined magnification level for lens creation to create a specific customized lens with precise additional magnification levels in certain locations to aid in the patient s overall ability to see throughout their full field of vision. In one embodiment the system can be used to keep track of macular degeneration or other degenerative vision disease at home and monitor changes as vision changes progress. It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that such routine testing is important for those with or at risk for vision issues as a sudden change or threshold level of change can be detrimental and may need physician evaluation immediately.

In another example embodiment of a vision loss test the system uses straight lines instead of the curved lines described above with reference to . In one such example embodiment the displayed first figure includes vertical lines and the system enables the patient to make at least one input to select the line or lines or portions of lines that appear distorted or to have parts missing. The system then displays horizontal lines and enables the patient to make at least one input to select the line or lines or portions of lines that appear distorted or to have parts missing. It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that the lines can be any angle or format any thickness or color and can also be employed with a combination of straight and curved lines or a combination of semi straight or modified lines in any suitable combination so long as the patient is enabled to identify and the system is thus able to determine the coordinates of the section s on the patient s retina that correlate s to missing or impaired vision. It should further be appreciated that if the patient identified lines are of a type of circular distortion or circular vision loss a system such as that described above can easily identify that type and can thus isolate any future changes in vision loss that differ from the original regions. One such example of vision loss occurs in those with diabetic changes or those with advanced macular degeneration. Traditional vision exams typically only monitor these changes every six months to a year and do not allow for a steady progression analysis to take place. In the system described by the present disclosure the testing and analysis can easily and conveniently be done with greater frequency such that any changes can be detected in a more accurate and time sensitive manner. Further it is contemplated that such testing results may be stored and accumulated in a generic database so that the system may compare vision loss data of a specific patient to that of the general population by analyzing vision loss between right and left eye data points of an individual to that of right and left eye intervals of that of the entire population or data set of patients stored in the database of the system.

In an embodiment the system includes determining the skew and thus quality of a patient s progressive lenses. Progressive lenses also called progressive addition lenses PAL progressive power lenses graduated prescription lenses and varifocal or multifocal lenses are corrective lenses used in eyeglasses to correct presbyopia and other disorders. Progressive lenses include at least two different prescriptions in different parts of the lens and a gradient between them. Generally the progressive lenses begin with the patient s distance prescription near the top of the lens and graduate to the addition or reading glasses power prescription near the bottom of the lens. The gradient can be as smooth or long as is necessary for patient comfort. However the progression of the prescriptions in these lenses create regions of aberration away from the optic axis causing blur or skew which varies in relation to the quality of the lens. The higher the quality of the lens the lower the blur while the lower the quality of the lens the higher the blur. Thus it is advantageous to inform patients of the blur inherent in progressive lenses its causes and options for decreasing blur and increasing clarity. In one example embodiment the system displays a figure. In a further example embodiment the displayed figure is a grid of lines similar to that shown at reference numeral in or that described above with reference to the optometrist based prior art macular degeneration test. It should be appreciated that the system may fill an entire computerized screen with such a grid or a portion of the computerized screen. The system instructs the patient to view the displayed figure with one corrected eye wearing a progressive lens at a time. The system enables the patient to make at least one input to identify areas of distortion or blurriness. It should be appreciated that any suitable method of user input may be enabled such as outlining or drawing with a cursor simple point and click selection via a touch screen via a remote control by voice control or by other known input devices and methods. The system may then describe the amount of distortion present in the lens by a simple percentage i.e. if the patient selects 5 percent of the blocks as distorted or blurry they would have 5 distortion and advise the patient what reduction in level of distortion a higher quality lens might yield.

It should further be appreciated that both the vision loss test and the progressive lens check test described in the preceding paragraphs can be employed by the system displaying a simple Amsler grid image with lines running up and down and left to right and enabling a patient to select the areas that look blurry or missing via any suitable input and selection means. It should further be appreciated at any suitable color combination may be used such as black lines on a white background black on white blue on yellow blue on red white on red or any other suitable combination of colors.

In another example embodiment of the present disclosure the system includes a visual field test. Typically a patient tests their visual field using a specific machine located in office at a doctor visit. The conventional visual field testing machine operates as follows a patient places their head against or into a machine and looks through a viewfinder. The machine tests each eye individually by for example blocking the view of the eye not being tested and instructs the patient to focus their eye on a center dot and click a button or other input device with their hand to select when they can see a dot being projected into their field of view through the viewfinder. The machine flashes dots relatively quickly and if a patient does not make an input that they saw a dot the machine marks the spot associated with that dot as having some vision loss. Often the machine will re test those areas later lengthening the process for testing the patient. When performed at a doctor s office the test is often difficult and uncomfortable for a patient to take. Many patients find it difficult to concentrate for such a long period of time and elderly patients often end up falling asleep while taking the test. Nevertheless a visual field test is an important diagnostic tool used for the determination and routine follow up patients with glaucoma brain tumors diabetes and many other conditions. Thus it would be advantageous to provide a visual field test which may be conducted at a location remote from a doctor s office and convenient for the patient such as in the patient s home. Additionally at a remote location the patient may take their time with test and pause the test if they become distracted or tired thus yielding a more accurate result. In an example embodiment of the present disclosure the system includes a visual field test that a patient is enabled to take at a location remote from a doctor s office. In such a system the patient may be instructed to focus on a central dot or other shape as is conventional or may be instructed to focus on a cursor present on the computerized screen. As is typical the system tests one eye of a patient at a time while focusing on a location. A weak dot or other suitable shape or figure is displayed on the screen in an area corresponding to a part of the patient s visual field and the patient is enabled to make at least one input to connote that they saw the dot. Any suitable input method may be employed by the system such as enabling the patient to move their mouse over to that area the dot appeared to click it touching the area if using a touch screen device selecting a button voice control or other suitable methods. If the patient is too slow to make the at least one input the system will flash another dot on the computerized screen and flag that area to re test or as having some vision loss. The time interval for displaying the dot on the computerized screen is generally fast and may be any suitable amount of time such as 0.2 seconds. The system enables the patient to make at least one input to cause the display of the dot to be adjusted longer or shorter . Once the system has at least fully tested the locations in patient s visual field and received any associated inputs from the patient it determines the patient s visual field based on those recorded inputs and any lack of recorded inputs. The system may further adjust the light intensity of the displayed shape or figure or display the shape or figure in any suitable color or combination of colors.

One potential issue with such a system is that a patient may move during the test even if instructed not to which would cause the location of the dots on the screen to become associated with a new position on the patient s eye. Thus the system may include a method to determine if the patient has moved during the test. One possible method is to determine and periodically check the location of the patient s blind spot. As is known in the art each person has a physiological blind spot in each eye where the optic nerve passes through the optic disc of the retina since there are no light detecting photoreceptor cells at that location. The blind spot location may be determined via methods well known in the art such as by displaying two shapes or figures a known distance apart and instructing the user to cover one eye look at the shape or figure opposite that eye and move their eye closer to or further from the screen until the shape or figure disappears. The other side of the blind spot is determined by when the opposite effect occurs. The system may also periodically display dots in the blind spot of the patient. If the patient makes at least one input connoting that they see a dot that should have been in their blind spot the system will determine that the test has become inaccurate and recalibrate based on the new location of the patient. It should be appreciated that any suitable method of determining whether a patient has moved may be employed by the system in addition to or in place of the above described methods.

Another potential issue with such a system is that the patient needs to know how far away from the screen to place their eye. Thus the system may include a method to determine how far the patient needs to be. One possible method is to use the determined location of the patient s blind spot as is conventional and described above. Alternatively the system may use any suitable distance calculation method such as those known in the art or described herein.

It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that a static question based system as opposed to a dynamically changing images based system may be utilized by the system. In an example embodiment of a static question based system the system may display four figures three identical and one different. The system would enable the patient to make at least one input to identify the different figure. In such a system the figures might begin relatively large in size and as the patient correctly selects the different figure the system would steadily decrease the size of the displayed figures until the patient is no longer able to correctly select the different figure. It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that if the starting size the rate of decrease in size and the number of correct inputs are known the system can calculate the appropriate sphere measurement for the patient s prescription. It should further be appreciated that any kind of figure may be used such as letters numbers or shapes that any suitable number of figures greater than one can be used such as 2 3 4 or more and that any suitable number of similar or different figures may be used. For example the system may display five figures three identical and two different. It should also be appreciated that any suitable input device may be used such as clicking via a cursor mouse or trackpad via a touch screen via a remote control by voice control or by other known input devices and methods.

In another embodiment the system includes the measurement of the corneal surface of a patient. In such a system the patient s eye is illuminated with a series of concentric rings of any suitable number such as two three four five six or more having a known distance between each ring. In one example embodiment the rings are each the same known distance apart. In another example embodiment at least one ring is a different known distance apart from its neighboring rings. The illumination of the patient s eye may occur in any suitable manner such as via projection. After the patient s eye has been illuminated the system takes a picture of the patient s eye illuminated with the concentric rings. In an alternative embodiment the system enables the patient or an assistant of the patient to take the picture using the system or using another mode of the patient terminal on which the system is being used. In another alternative embodiment the system instructs the patient or an assistant of a patient to take the picture using a separate camera device such as may found in a digital camera a camera phone a camera enabled computer or tablet or any other suitable camera device. Applicants have surprisingly found that the distortion in the spacing between the concentric rings as they appear illuminated on the eye of a patient corresponds to the topology of the patient s cornea. In particular Applicants have surprisingly found that when the illuminated concentric rings appear closer together the corneal structure is steeper whereas if the illuminated concentric rings appear further apart the corneal structure is flatter. Thus the system is able to determine the exact corneal steepness based on the separation distance between the illuminated corneal rings compared to the original known separation between the concentric rings. The system is also able to detect if the patient s cornea has a malformed surface such as keratoconus or an injury based on the appearance of the illuminated concentric rings on the patient s eye.

In another embodiment the system includes a pupillary distance measurement module. It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that most inner medial and outer lateral canthal distances are routinely within a small range around approximately 3 cm in all cultures races and genders as long as the individual is of adult age generally considered to be 18 years of age or older . Applicants have surprisingly found that from this known range the system can determine the scale of an image and thus calculate additional desired distances such as a patient s pupillary distance. Once the system has determined the pupillary distance of the patient from an image of the patient based in part upon the scale of the image and the known canthal ranges the system may enable the patient to virtually and view various glasses frames sized to fit the image of their face and their determined pupillary distance. In such an embodiment the system may display an image of the patient with mock eyeglass frames displayed over the top of the patient s face and may enable the patient to modify the appearance of the frames for example by changing the size shape color material texture etc. of the mock frames. It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that other desired facial measurements may be determined by the system based upon the known canthal distances and that any other desired clothing or accessories may be virtually fit via the methods disclosed herein. One of skill in the art should further appreciate that the methods disclosed herein may be applied outside of the context of the facial structure to any part of a human or animal body known to have a standard or approximate standard size and thus may be used to virtually browse and fit any suitable type of clothing or accessory matched to the size of the underlying image.

It should further be appreciated by one of skill in the art that the above described pupillary distance module can be used to calculate other facial characteristics or biometric data which may be used to uniquely identify an individual. For example the system may use the known canthal distance to calculate the face width and or height of a patient positioned in any suitable manner such as straight on to the camera or full or partial profile. It should be appreciated that biometric data calculated by the system such as pupillary distance or other facial dimensions may be used by a camera enabled device to lock or unlock access to various applications on the device or the device itself based on a comparison between the biometric data known by the device and the biometric data of the person sensed by the camera of the device. If the known biometric data and the sensed biometric data are similar to a high enough degree such as the same a statistically insignificant difference apart or close to the same within a confidence range then the device will identify the sensed person as the known person and allow the sensed person access. It should be appreciated that such a biometric based system works because certain facial proportions and measurements are unique to individuals. Potential problems with such a system include that a person unknown to the system may try to trick the system into authenticating a photograph or video of the known person. The system would then recognize the biometric data of the photograph or video and allow access without the known person actually being present. To avoid these problems the system may instruct the person desiring access to blink an eye or blink either or both eyes in a random or predetermined combination or pattern . It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that any suitable and system recognizable facial expression or combination of facial expressions may be used e.g. a smile and a wink sticking a tongue out etc. . If the camera enabled device is also flash enabled the system may activate the flash to determine whether there is an actual person as opposed to a recording or photograph present. In activating the flash a person would still be visible to the camera sensor but the photograph or video would be washed out and difficult to sense. The system may also sense or detect shadows on the face and whether they change to confirm a real person is present.

In a further embodiment the pupillary distance measurement system biometric access system may enable the known person to access to lock or unlock access to various applications on the device or the device itself . In this further embodiment different suitable and system recognizable facial expressions or combinations of facial expressions may be used to access or quit out of different applications or the device itself . For example the patient may stick their tongue out to access the device may wink the right eye then the left eye to access one application such as a mailbox then may wink the left eye followed by the right eye to access a second application. It should be appreciated that these combinations of suitable and system recognizable facial expressions may be used as shortcuts to perform actions inside an application as well as to provide access or close out of applications or the device itself.

In another embodiment the system includes an air puff tonometer test. Such a test may be implemented for a mobile device in a stand alone location in a kiosk type setting or in any suitable location such as by utilizing a small and simple attachable reflexive device that ejects a force of air through a small tiny opening by methods known in the art. It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that the puff of air will be forced onto the cornea of a human or non human eye in order to measure its intraocular pressure. Such an attachable reflexive device may include a high powered photographic lens system that will allow the camera to determine how much the cornea has flattened in response to the puff of air. In an alternate embodiment the system includes a sensor to measure a apushback or return of air to the sensor after the air has been puffed to the patient s cornea. It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that the sensor is capable of measuring the amount of air return in both intensity and delay. In such an embodiment the system determines the intraocular pressure of the patient based on the sensor measurements. It should further be appreciated that the system may utilize more than form of measurement and or more than one iteration of measurement to ensure accuracy. In using such a attachable reflexive device the patient is enabled to measure their intraocular pressure in the manner most convenient or comfortable for the patient.

In another embodiment the system includes capability to allow the patient to query a database of eyeglass frames. In one example embodiment of such a system the system enables a patient to photograph eyeglass frames which they like or which they already own and input the image into the system. In a further embodiment the system may instruct the patient to take the photograph of the frames straight on as well as with one or two side views of the frames while the frames are either on or off of the patient. The system utilize the photograph or photographs to determine frame characteristics such as size shape size color texture materials or any other suitable characteristic to query the database of frames known to the system for matching or similar frames which the patient may prefer. The system may determine the characteristics of the photographed frames in any suitable manner such as a quick wireframe analysis of the frames on the patient s face. As disclosed herein the system is enabled to determine the necessary dimensions of the patient s face to accurately determine matching or similar frame selections to display to the patient. In one example embodiment of such a system patients may browse frames at their local optical shops and take photographs of their preferred frames then use the disclosed online mobile phone application or kiosk based system to purchase a pair of frames that are close in shape size color or any other characteristic. In another example embodiment the system may query the database based on a picture of someone other than the patient such as a picture provided by the patient of someone unknown to the system or a picture from a publication such as a magazine.

In another embodiment the system includes a sound vibration ocular pressure sensor to determine the ocular pressure of a patient. It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that such as system is based on the known fact that objects will vibrate in response to sound waves. Applicants have surprisingly found that the various types and frequencies of sound waves correlate directly to the associated vibration that occurs in the cornea based upon the ocular pressure and that these vibrations are measurable by a camera sensor capturing changes in light reflections from a camera or by a microphone or other suitable sensor that captures the frequency of the sound reflected back from the pulsated eye. The system pulsates sound waves in any suitable standard or variable frequency against the corneal structure of the patient then measures the vibration of the cornea to determine the pressure inside the cornea. Applicants have surprisingly found that changes in the light reflections from a camera or measured frequency of reflected sound from a pulsated eye correlate with the vibration in the cornea based upon the ocular pressure. Applicants have further surprisingly found that such systems are functional using ultrasonic sound waves infrasonic sound waves and or acoustic sound waves. In one example embodiment a combination of infrasonic and acoustic sound waves are pulsated in various time intervals and intensities and sound decibel levels and the patient s cornea vibrates in accordance to the various levels and in accordance with its internal pressure. It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that any suitable speaker or device may generate the sound waves such as the standard speaker on a cell phone tablet or personal computer.

In another embodiment the system includes a high powered plus lens to isolate hyperopia and hyperopic prescriptions. This lens may be included or simulated in any suitable application such as in a personal computer application a mobile phone application or in a kiosk based application. It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that a high powered plus lens enables the system to correct for latent hyperopia as well as isolate the patient from using their eye muscles natural accommodative ability to focus through a slightly incorrect prescription thus enabling the system to provide a more accurate prescription.

In another embodiment the system includes an additional method to determine the distance between the patient and the computerized screen of the patient terminal or other desired distances such as pupillary distance. The system relies upon the known canthal distance of the adult patient and an additional data point to calculate the distance between the terminal or camera and the patient. The additional data point can be any suitable data point such as the height of the patient if the terminal or camera can see the entire height of the patient or known camera specifications of particular device or patient terminal. The system uses this known information to determine the distance between the terminal or camera from the patient. In one example embodiment the system may know the canthal distance of the patient is approximately 3 cm and may determine that on the image of the patient from a known camera device such as from a camera of known manufacture that canthal distance is represented by a certain number of pixels then the system may from these known points identify the scale of the image of the patient and thus the distance between terminal or patient. In an alternative embodiment the system uses or instructs the patient to use one or more of two camera devices separated vertically or horizontally by a known distance to measure the desired distance distance between the patient and the camera devices or some other desired distance . It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that such a system may also be used to determine pupillary distance.

It should be appreciated that each of the disclosures above may be implemented in a kiosk type system either singly individually or in combination with several kiosks to provide a complete eye examination to evaluate various parts of the eye and refractive system. Examples of various types of known systems which may be incorporated into such a system include an eye pressure measurement system a photographing system for the photographing the front and or back of the eye a refraction system and a system to measure all ancillary tests of an eye exam. In one example embodiment the system includes a distance range finder to determine the distance a patient moves their eye away from a screen and enables the patient to make a input at the distance they first notice an image being sharp with each individual eye. It should be appreciated that in such an embodiment the test will be done with each eye independently and any suitable number of times such as one time two times three times or more. The systems determines a portion of a prescription for the patient based on these one or more tests and based in part on the principle that the focal point of an eye corresponds to the dioptric power error of an eye in that the measurement of initial close focus is 1 distance where distance is in meters. It should be appreciated that such a system operates without the need to for the patient to move their footing position away from their current position.

In another further embodiment the system is an all in one corrective lenses production device that will determine the patient s prescription in the manners described herein and enables a patient to select a glasses frame and a type color and coating for a lens as is known in the art. The system will then create the frame while the patient waits via a 3D printer or other known methods and create the lens with a gel type system that creates the lens and hardens the lens while the patient waits or by any other method which is known in the art for the creation of lenses. An entire system in accordance with this embodiment advantageously provides convenience for the patient as it contains the three necessary components to finalize a pair of spectacles a prescription a frame and lenses.

It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that for various modules or portions of the present disclosure which do not require input from a patient or which are not subjective in nature the patient may be any suitable patient. For example the patient may be non human such as a pet or a wild animal. In another example the patient may be of an age or ability level which makes communication difficult such as a child or a developmentally delayed person. It should further be appreciated that for such patients the system may instruct an assistant to the patient on proper positioning and any necessary inputs.

In another embodiment the system determines the former spectacle eyeglasses prescription myopic hyperopic astigmatic or any combination thereof of a patient without requiring a written prescription copied into a fillable form by the patient. The system requires only a camera a computerized screen and a pair of spectacle lenses. The patient places the camera lens a known distance from a computer monitor. In one example embodiment an easy way to set or determine the known distance is to use a standard piece of paper 8.5 11 inches to select the placement of the camera device and or the computerized screen. In one embodiment the system instructs the patient to place the camera device 11 inches or some other distance from the computerized screen. In another example embodiment the patient selects the distance between the camera device and the computerized screen and the system enables the patient to input the selected distance. Once the camera device has been placed a known distance from the computerized screen the patient takes a control picture of the computerized screen then places one of the spectacle lenses against the camera lens and takes a second picture of the computerized screen. The patient then places the other of the spectacle lenses against the camera lens and takes a third picture of the computerized screen. The computerized screen may display any suitable high contrast figure such as a grid or spaced dots. The system receives the control picture first lens picture and second lens picture from the camera device via methods for data transfer that are well known in the art such as though a wired connection usb firewire thunderbolt etc. wireless connection bluetooth etc. or via cellular data or internet connections. It would be appreciated by one of skill in the art that placing the spectacle lens over the camera lens will distort or change the visual appearance of figure displayed by the system on the computerized screen. Applicants have surprisingly found that by measuring the amount and direction of distortion of the first and second pictures from the control picture over a known distance the system is able to determine the prescription of the first and second spectacle lenses without a written prescription document.

In another example embodiment the system utilizes a screen that is able to focus its light rays in more than one direction and at various points in space such that it is able to specifically focus light rays within a designated small space to make for a more optimal viewing location. This display unit will therefore allow a patient to see an image in focus regardless of their vision correction because the display will aim the rays towards the patient and can adjust in real time the rays of light and their position for the user.

In a further embodiment the system determines both cylinder and axis measurements of a patients refractive error for each eye at a time by using a single figure on a screen. The patient is enabled to view the figure using one uncorrected eye at a time and is enabled to input to the system the extent and reach of the patients perception of any doubling or overlap effect. It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that any suitable way of measuring or inputting the doubling or overlap effect can be utilized such as by expanded or concentric additional figures or by enabling the patient to place markers where at the outer bounds of the perceived doubling or overlap effect. It should further be appreciated that any suitable figure may be used by the system such as a simple shape symbol icon. Applicants have surprisingly found that the perceived doubling or overlap effect corresponds to the axis by demonstrating the angle the astigmatism causes distortion along and cylinder by demonstrating the extent of the astigmatism distortion measurements of the patient.

In another embodiment the system can determine either an astigmatism cylinder or axis by displaying a spinning symbol and enabling a patient to view the spinning figure with one uncorrected eye at a time and make an input when the figure appears as a single figure without any residual doubling or overlap effect. It should be appreciated that any suitable figure may be used by the system such as a simple shape symbol icon. Applicants have surprisingly found that the disappearance of the doubling or overlap effect caused by an astigmatism corresponds to the axis by demonstrating the angle the astigmatism causes distortion along and cylinder by demonstrating the extent of the astigmatism distortion measurements of the patient.

In another further embodiment a system may enable a patient to undergo an additional number of examinations after their initial examination. In one example embodiment at least one of the additional examinations is performed by the patient using their corrected eyes based on the prescription determined by the system in their initial examination. The system may use the additional number of examinations to refine the correlation of tests performed by the system to the most accurate measurement of the patient s prescription.

In an embodiment the system includes determining any particular areas of a patient s vision loss or reduction throughout their full field of vision. In one example embodiment the system displays a figure. In a further example embodiment the displayed figure is a grid of lines similar to that shown at reference numeral in . The system instructs the patient to view the displayed figure with one uncorrected eye at a time and look to or at a center point of the figure. The center point of the figure may be marked or otherwise identified. The system then enables the patient make at least one input to select areas in the figure which appear distorted missing or otherwise different than the rest. The system can use this at least one input to further test the areas of vision loss by either magnifying those certain spots of vision loss or altering their shapes or intensities to determine if the patient can notice vision improvement. The patient continues to look to or at the center of the figure while the system adjusts at least one of the shape intensity color or other suitable characteristic of each identified area of vision loss. The system enables the patient to make at least one input per previously identified area of vision loss to connote one or more of the following i the adjustment helped to make the area more clear less distorted ii the adjustment did not help to make the area more clear less distorted iii the adjustment made the area clear and not distorted and iv the area is still missing blurry or distorted despite the adjustment. The system may then iteratively adjust at least one of the shape intensity color or other suitable characteristic of each identified area of vision loss and again enable the patient to make one or more of the four above identified inputs. This iterative process may continue until each identified area has been adjusted to appear clear and not distorted to the uncorrected eye of the patient wherein the adjustment to size intensity or other characteristic of each area corresponds to a magnification of a particular location of a spectacle lens. In one example embodiment the adjustment correlates to the base curve of the lens at that particular location. As an example if the patient was found to have no distance prescription but the system identified two areas of vision loss that needed increased magnification with 2 levels of increase diopters an example base curve modification would be 4 diopters on the back curve of the lens and 4 diopters on the front but 6 curve on the areas that need 2 levels of magnification. This is because a lens has two curved surfaces affecting the vision of the wearer the front surface and the back surface. The corrective power of a lens is determined by adding the front curve to the back curve. This is expressed by the equation F1 F2 FTotal. Applicants have surprisingly found that adjusting a figure to correct for vision loss in particular areas correlates to base curve measurements for the corresponding locations of a spectacle lens. Possible applications of the above described system include aiding those patients with macular degeneration glaucoma diabetic retinopathy or other retinal diseases which cause loss of some or all vision in certain locations.

In a further embodiment the system includes grinding or laser cutting custom lenses based on the results and prescriptions of the tests described herein. As is well known in the art spectacle lenses may be made of glass or plastic such as lightweight polycarbonate plastic CR 39 plastic or high index plastic lenses. Lenses are generally started as blanks which are already cut to an approximate base curve power and need only to be fine tuned to the prescription of each patient. These blank lenses are then conventionally processed by grinding and polishing or laser cutting edging and coating. In one embodiment the system grinds lenses for a patient who has an especially narrow or wide astigmatism angles. In another embodiment the system grinds lenses with different base curve diopter values in different locations to correct for vision loss in those particular areas from diseases such as macular degeneration glaucoma diabetic retinopathy or other retinal diseases. It should be appreciated that such a lens would magnify or minify some parts of patient s sight to adjust for the patient s weakness in parts of their eyesight. In a further embodiment the transitions between the base curve changes are smooth as they are in no line bifocal lenses .

The present disclosure contemplates a variety of different systems each having one or more of a plurality of different features attributes or characteristics. It should be appreciated that a system as used herein refers to various configurations of a one or more central servers central controllers or remote hosts and or b one or more patient terminals such as desktop computers laptop computers tablet computers or computing devices personal digital assistants PDAs mobile telephones such as smart phones kiosk devices and other mobile or stationary computing devices.

For brevity and clarity unless specifically stated otherwise patient terminal as used herein represents one patient terminal or a plurality of patient terminals and central server central controller or remote host as used herein represents one central server central controller or remote host or a plurality of central servers central controllers or remote hosts.

As noted above in various embodiments the system includes a patient terminal in combination with a central server central controller or remote host. In such embodiments the patient terminal is configured to communicate with the central server central controller or remote host through a data network or remote communication link.

In certain embodiments in which the system includes a patient terminal in combination with a central server central controller or remote host the central server central controller or remote host is any suitable computing device such as a server that includes at least one processor and at least one memory device or storage device. As further described below the patient terminal includes at least one processor configured to transmit and receive data or signals representing events messages commands or any other suitable information between the patient terminal and the central server central controller or remote host. The at least one processor of that patient terminal is configured to execute the events messages or commands represented by such data or signals in conjunction with the operation of the patient terminal. Moreover the at least one processor of the central server central controller or remote host is configured to transmit and receive data or signals representing events messages commands or any other suitable information between the central server central controller or remote host and the patient terminal. The at least one processor of the central server central controller or remote host is configured to execute the events messages or commands represented by such data or signals in conjunction with the operation of the central server central controller or remote host. It should be appreciated that one more or each of the functions of the central server central controller or remote host may be performed by the at least one processor of the patient terminal. It should be further appreciated that one more or each of the functions of the at least one processor of the patient terminal may be performed by the at least one processor of the central server central controller or remote host.

In certain such embodiments computerized instructions for controlling any screens displays or interfaces displayed by the patient terminal are executed by the central server central controller or remote host. In such thin client embodiments the central server central controller or remote host remotely controls screens displays or interfaces displayed by the patient terminal and the patient terminal is utilized to display such screens displays or interfaces and to receive one or more inputs or commands. In other such embodiments computerized instructions for controlling screens displays or interfaces displayed by the patient terminal are communicated from the central server central controller or remote host to the patient terminal and are stored in at least one memory device of the patient terminal. In such thick client embodiments the at least one processor of the patient terminal executes the computerized instructions to control screens displays or interfaces displayed by the patient terminal.

In certain embodiments in which the system includes a patient terminal configured to communicate with a central server central controller or remote host through a data network the data network is a local area network LAN in which the patient terminal is located substantially proximate to the central server central controller or remote host. In one example the patient terminal and the central server central controller or remote host are located in an eyeglasses and or contacts retail location. In another example the patient terminal and the central server central controller or remote host are located in an optometrist s or ophthalmologist s office.

In other embodiments in which the system includes a patient terminal configured to communicate with a central server central controller or remote host through a data network the data network is a wide area network WAN in which the patient terminal is not necessarily located substantially proximate to the central server central controller or remote host. For example the customer terminal is located a in an area of an eyeglasses and or contacts retail location different from an area of the eyeglasses and or contacts retail location in which the central server central controller or remote host is located or b in a eyeglasses and or contacts retail location different from the eyeglasses and or contacts retail location in which the central server central controller or remote host is located. In another example the central server central controller or remote host is not located within a eyeglasses and or contacts retail location in which the patient terminal is located. In still another example the customer terminal is located a in an area of an optometrist s or ophthalmologist s office different from an area of the optometrist s or ophthalmologist s office in which the central server central controller or remote host is located or b in an optometrist s or ophthalmologist s office different from the optometrist s or ophthalmologist s office in which the central server central controller or remote host is located. In another example the central server central controller or remote host is not located within an optometrist s or ophthalmologist s office in which the patient terminal is located. It should be appreciated that in certain embodiments in which the data network is a WAN the system includes a central server central controller or remote host and a customer terminal each located in a different eyeglasses and or contacts retail location in a same geographic area such as a same city or a same state. It should be appreciated that systems in which the data network is a WAN are substantially identical to systems in which the data network is a LAN though the quantity of patient terminals in such systems may vary relative to one another.

In further embodiments in which the system includes a patient terminal configured to communicate with a central server central controller or remote host through a data network the data network is an internet or an intranet. In certain such embodiments an internet browser of the computer terminal is usable to access an internet page from any location where an internet connection is available. In one such embodiment after the internet page is accessed the central server central controller or remote host identifies a patient prior to enabling that player to enter any data or participate in any tests. In one example the central server central controller or remote host identifies the patient by requiring a patient account of the patient to be logged into via an input of a unique username and password combination assigned to the patient. It should be appreciated however that the central server central controller or remote host may identify the patient in any other suitable manner such as by validating a patient tracking identification number associated with the patient by validating a unique patient identification number associated with the patient by the central server central controller or remote host or by identifying the patient terminal such as by identifying the MAC address or the IP address of the internet facilitator. In various embodiments once the central server central controller or remote host identifies the patient the central server central controller or remote host enables the entry of any patient data and the participation in any tests and displays those tests and screens displays and interfaces via the internet browser of the patient terminal.

It should be appreciated the system of the present invention may be implemented via any suitable method such as any computer readable medium. In one embodiment the computer readable medium is software embedded in a website. In another embodiment the computer readable medium is software on a non transitory medium such as a CD ROM storage in local memory at the patient terminal or the like. In another embodiment the system is provided in an application programming interface API which may be individually licensed to third parties to include in their websites or other media.

It should be appreciated that the central server central server or remote host and the patient terminal are configured to connect to the data network or remote communications link in any suitable manner. In various embodiments such a connection is accomplished via a conventional phone line or other data transmission line a digital subscriber line DSL a T 1 line a coaxial cable a fiber optic cable a wireless or wired routing device a mobile communications network connection such as a cellular network or mobile internet network or any other suitable medium. It should be appreciated that the expansion in the quantity of computing devices and the quantity and speed of internet connections in recent years increases opportunities for patients to use a variety of patient terminals to participate in eye tests from an ever increasing quantity of remote sites. It should also be appreciated that the enhanced bandwidth of digital wireless communications may render such technology suitable for some or all communications particularly if such communications are encrypted. Higher data transmission speeds may be useful for enhancing the sophistication and response of the display and interaction with players.

It should be appreciated by one of skill in the art that the static i.e. non dynamic figures and diagrams described above with reference to the figures are also capable of being used in the form of physical media such as paper poster plastic or other printed forms. In such embodiments the physical media may be displayed to the patient at any suitable location such as at their home at an office or at a corrective lenses retail establishment. The physical media may be view by the patient alone or may be viewed with the assistance of one or more other persons such as an assistant or doctor. Further in such embodiments the results may be entered into a terminal as described above for the determination of the appropriate prescription measurements.

It should be understood that various changes and modifications to the presently preferred embodiments described herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Such changes and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present subject matter and without diminishing its intended advantages. It is therefore intended that such changes and modifications be covered by the appended claims.

