---

title: Context based virtual area creation
abstract: Examples of systems and methods for context based virtual area creation are described. Some examples provide a quick and easy way for users to wrap virtual areas around contexts of interest. Examples of such contexts may be defined in terms of one or more of content, people, and real-world location. The virtual areas support realtime communications between communicants (e.g., one or more of text chat, voice, video, application sharing, and file sharing) and provide a persistent historical repository for interactions in the virtual area. Summaries of activities and other events in virtual areas typically are published in realtime so that other communicants can readily obtain a quick summary of the activities occurring in a particular context and decide whether or not to join or otherwise participate in those activities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09602447&OS=09602447&RS=09602447
owner: Sococo, Inc.
number: 09602447
owner_city: Eugene
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160315
---
This application is a continuation of prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 954 742 filed Jul. 30 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 682 218 filed Aug. 11 2012 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This application relates to the following co pending patent applications the entirety of each of which is incorporated herein by reference 

When face to face communications are not practical people often rely on one or more technological solutions to meet their communications needs. Traditional telephony systems enable voice communications between callers. Instant messaging also referred to as chat communications systems enable users to communicate text messages in real time through instant message computer clients that are interconnected by an instant message server. Some instant messaging systems and interactive virtual reality communications systems allow users to be represented by user controllable graphical objects referred to as avatars . What are needed are improved systems and methods for realtime network communications.

In the following description like reference numbers are used to identify like elements. Furthermore the drawings are intended to illustrate major features of exemplary embodiments in a diagrammatic manner. The drawings are not intended to depict every feature of actual embodiments nor relative dimensions of the depicted elements and are not drawn to scale.

A communicant is a person who communicates or otherwise interacts with other persons over one or more network connections where the communication or interaction may or may not occur in the context of a virtual area. A user is a communicant who is operating a particular network node that defines a particular perspective for descriptive purposes.

A computer is any machine device or apparatus that processes data according to computer readable instructions that are stored on a computer readable medium either temporarily or permanently. A computer operating system is a software component of a computer system that manages and coordinates the performance of tasks and the sharing of computing and hardware resources. A software application also referred to as software an application computer software a computer application a program and a computer program is a set of instructions that a computer can interpret and execute to perform one or more specific tasks. A data file is a block of information that durably stores data for use by a software application.

The term computer readable medium refers to any tangible non transitory medium capable storing information e.g. instructions and data that is readable by a machine e.g. a computer . Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying such information include but are not limited to all forms of physical non transitory computer readable memory including for example semiconductor memory devices such as random access memory RAM EPROM EEPROM and Flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable hard disks magneto optical disks DVD ROM RAM and CD ROM RAM.

A data sink referred to herein simply as a sink is any of a device e.g. a computer part of a device or software that receives data.

A data source referred to herein simply as a source is any of a device e.g. a computer part of a device or software that originates data.

A network node also referred to simply as a node is a junction or connection point in a communications network. Examples of network nodes include but are not limited to a terminal a computer and a network switch. A server network node is a host computer on a network that responds to requests for information or service. A client network node is a computer on a network that requests information or service from a server.

A network resource is anything that can be identified by a uniform resource identifier URI and accessed over a network including an electronic document an image a source of information a service operators and operands of a mathematical equation classes properties numeric values and a collection of other resources.

A network connection is a link between two communicating network nodes. A connection handle is a pointer or identifier e.g. a uniform resource identifier URI that can be used to establish a network connection with a network resource. A network communication can include any type of information e.g. text voice audio video electronic mail message data file motion data stream and data packet that is transmitted or otherwise conveyed from one network node to another network node over a network connection.

A communicant interaction is any type of direct or indirect action or influence between a communicant and another network entity which may include for example another communicant a virtual area or a network service. Examples of types of communicant interactions include communicants communicating with each other in realtime a communicant entering a virtual area and a communicant requesting access to a resource from a network service.

 Presence refers to the ability and willingness of a networked entity e.g. a communicant service or device to communicate where such willingness affects the ability to detect and obtain information about the state of the entity on a network and the ability to connect to the entity.

A realtime data stream is data that is structured and processed in a continuous flow and is designed to be received with no delay or only imperceptible delay. Realtime data streams include digital representations of voice video user movements facial expressions and other physical phenomena as well as data within the computing environment that may benefit from rapid transmission rapid execution or both rapid transmission and rapid execution including for example avatar movement instructions text chat realtime data feeds e.g. sensor data machine control instructions transaction streams and stock quote information feeds screen shares and file transfers.

A virtual area also referred to as an area a place or a space is a representation of a computer managed space or scene. Virtual areas typically are one dimensional two dimensional or three dimensional representations although in some examples a virtual area may correspond to a single point. Oftentimes a virtual area is designed to simulate a physical real world space. For example using a traditional computer monitor a virtual area may be visualized as a two dimensional graphic of a three dimensional computer generated space. However virtual areas do not require an associated visualization. A virtual area typically refers to an instance of a virtual area schema where the schema defines the structure and contents of a virtual area in terms of variables and the instance defines the structure and contents of a virtual area in terms of values that have been resolved from a particular context.

A position in a virtual area refers to a location of a point or an area or a volume in the virtual area. A point typically is represented by a single set of one dimensional two dimensional or three dimensional coordinates e.g. x y z that define a spot in the virtual area. An area typically is represented by the three dimensional coordinates of three or more coplanar vertices that define a boundary of a closed two dimensional shape in the virtual area. A volume typically is represented by the three dimensional coordinates of four or more non coplanar vertices that define a closed boundary of a three dimensional shape in the virtual area.

A summary of an area is a view on data associated with a virtual area. In some examples a summary of a virtual area refers to a view on the data associated with the respective area object generated for that virtual area.

An assembly is a gathering of two or more copresent communicants in a virtual area location that defines a context for realtime communications between the copresent communicants.

A predicate is a conditional part of a rule. A predicate typically conditions a result or action e.g. the creation of a virtual area on satisfaction of one or more criteria.

A request is a communication for a network node or service to perform a function. A request may be made in a single data transmission or in a collection of related data transmissions.

As used herein the term includes means includes but not limited to the term including means including but not limited to. The term based on means based at least in part on.

The examples that are described herein provide systems and methods for context based virtual area creation. Some examples provide a quick and easy way for users to wrap virtual areas around contexts of interest which may be defined for example in terms of one or more of content people and real world location. The virtual areas support realtime communications between communicants e.g. text chat voice video application sharing and file sharing and provide a persistent historical repository for interactions in the virtual area. Summaries of activities and other events in virtual areas typically are published in realtime so that other communicants can readily obtain a quick summary of the activities occurring in a particular context and decide whether or not to join or otherwise participate in those activities. The area activity summaries may be published to all communicants only those communicants who are socially related to e.g. friends or friends of friends of the activity participants or the members of the virtual area or only members of the virtual area. Similarly access to a virtual area may be restricted to particular communicants e.g. members of the virtual area open to communicants who are socially related to e.g. friends or friends of friends the members of the virtual area or the participants engaged in published activities in the virtual area or open to all users. In some examples communicants can lurk and view the realtime activities of communicants in a virtual area before entering the virtual area so that they can quickly browse various realtime contexts of potential interest without changing their current presence state.

The contexts may be defined for example in terms of one or more of content people and real world location. Content items include local content e.g. documents images video files and audio files stored on the client network nodes social network content e.g. activity feeds image content e.g. photographs streaming media content e.g. streaming audio streaming video syndicated web feed content e.g. webpages blogs and podcasts and conversation thread content e.g. wiki boards micro blogs such as Twitter feeds emails bulletin boards newsgroups internet forum threads comment threads . People based contexts include data relating to users contacts received from the virtual area platform social network services and other communication services e.g. instant messaging services email hosting services and internet forum services . Location based contexts include real world locations of mobile apparatus e.g. mobile phones and vehicles and real world locations of stationary apparatus e.g. network equipment and structures e.g. buildings .

The virtual area platform creates virtual areas based on the contexts . In the examples shown in the contexts and are defined by one or more content items one or more contacts and one or more real world locations respectively. The virtual area platform wraps respective virtual areas around the contexts and by creating area objects that respectively represent the virtual areas and associating the area objects with the respective contexts and and information relating to the context defining entity e.g. a communicant or third party entity .

The virtual area platform administers the virtual areas . In the example shown in the virtual area platform administers communicant presence in virtual area realtime communications between communicants who are co present in the virtual area co consumption of content e.g. images streaming audio streaming video and synchronous application sharing content by co present communicants interaction history e.g. text chat and event logs in the virtual area and membership of the virtual area. These additional data and realtime interaction activity data augment and modify the original contexts around which the virtual areas were created.

The virtual area platform also handles publication of realtime area activity feeds describing realtime interactions in the virtual area and manages access to the virtual area by viewers and potential entrants into the virtual area.

The virtual area platform and the client network nodes may be implemented in a variety of different ways.

The first client network node includes a computer readable medium or memory a processor and input output I O hardware including e.g. a display and network communication hardware . The processor executes at least one virtual area communications application that is stored in the memory . The second client network node typically is configured in substantially the same general way as the first client network node with a computer readable medium storing at least one virtual area communications application a processor and I O hardware .

Each of the network nodes has a respective set of one or more sources and an exemplary set of one or more sinks. Each source is a device or component that originates data of a particular data stream content type and each sink is a device or component that receives data of a particular data stream content type. A source and a sink of the same data stream content type are referred to herein as being complementary. Exemplary sources include an audio source e.g. an audio capture device such as a microphone a video source e.g. a video capture device such as a video camera a chat source e.g. a text capture device such as a keyboard a motion data source e.g. a pointing device such as a computer mouse and other sources e.g. file sharing source or a source of a customized real time data stream . Exemplary sinks include an audio sink e.g. an audio rendering device such as a speaker or headphones a video sink e.g. a video rendering device such as a display monitor a chat sink e.g. a text rendering device such as a display monitor a motion data sink e.g. a movement rendering device such as a display monitor and other sinks e.g. a printer for printing shared files a device for rendering real time data streams different from those already described or software that processes real time streams for analysis or customized display . Each source has an active state in which the source is available for originating data and an inactive state in which the source is not available for originating data. Likewise each sink has an active state in which the sink is available for receiving data and an inactive state in which the sink is not available for receiving data. The communicants operating the client nodes typically can control the states of the sources and sinks using controls provided by the communications applications . For example in some examples the communications applications provide user controls for turning on off the local microphones and the local speakers e.g. headsets on the client network nodes .

The virtual area platform includes at least one server network node that provides a network infrastructure service environment that manages sessions of the first and second client nodes in one or more virtual areas in accordance with respective virtual area applications . One or more of the virtual area applications typically are synchronous conferencing applications that support one or more types of communications between the client nodes e.g. text chat audio conferencing video conferencing application sharing and file sharing . The network infrastructure service environment typically includes one or more network infrastructure services that cooperate with the communications applications in the process of establishing and administering network connections between the client nodes and other network nodes. Among the network infrastructure services that are included in the example of the network infrastructure service environment are an account service a security service an area service a rendezvous service an interaction service and a capabilities engine. The area service administers a virtual area by managing sessions of the first and second client nodes in the virtual area in accordance with the virtual area application . Examples of the virtual area platform and the virtual area applications are described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 563 088 filed Nov. 23 2011. Examples of an account service a security service an area service a rendezvous service and an interaction service are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 630 973 filed Dec. 4 2009. Examples of a capabilities engine are described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 535 910 filed Sep. 16 2011.

The network infrastructure service environment maintains a relationship database that contains the records of interactions between communicants and social network profiles that are associated with respective communicants. Each interaction record describes the context of an interaction between a pair of communicants. Each social network profile typically includes identity characteristics e.g. name age gender and geographic location information such as postal mailing address that describe a respective communicant or a persona that is assumed by the communicant explicit relationship information that is declared by the communicant and relationship information that is inferred from the communicant s interactions in the network communication environment . Additional details regarding the relationship database and the search and retrieval functionalities associated with the relationship database as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 354 709 filed Jan. 15 2009 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 418 243 filed Apr. 3 2009 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 631 026 filed Dec. 4 2009 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 432 837 filed Mar. 28 2012.

Some examples provide systems and methods for encapsulating assemblies e.g. meetings informal gatherings and the like of communicants in one or more virtual areas based on information obtained from the interactions records . These examples provide a wide variety of ways in which to capture features of ongoing and completed assemblies and visualize those features at different levels of detail. Examples of systems and methods of encapsulating and visualizing assemblies of communicants in virtual areas are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 432 837 filed Mar. 28 2012.

The communications applications the area applications and the network infrastructure service environment together provide a platform that administers the realtime connections with network nodes in an instance of a virtual area subject to a set of constraints e.g. capabilities and other types of permissions rules and preferences . Each of the virtual area applications is hosted by a respective one of the virtual areas and includes a description of the respective virtual area . Communicants respectively operating the client nodes connect to the virtual areas through the virtual area communications applications .

The communications applications typically present respective views of the virtual areas in accordance with data received from the network infrastructure service environment . The communications applications also provide respective interfaces e.g. one or more of a voice input interface and audio output interface and a visual graphical user interface for receiving commands from the communicants. In visual graphical user interfaces communicants typically are represented in the virtual areas by respective avatars e.g. sprites . In audio output interfaces communicants states and activities are described using audio signals e.g. synthesized speech . Communicant avatars typically move about the virtual areas in response to commands that are input by the communicants at their respective network nodes. In some examples the communications applications establish realtime data stream connections between the first and second client network nodes and other network nodes connected to the virtual area based on the positions of the communicants avatars in the virtual areas . In some examples each of the client network nodes includes a respective realtime kernel of the type described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 630 973 filed Dec. 4 2009 which supports remote configuration of stream handlers for processing data streams e.g. rendering audio and video data streams on a client network node.

A virtual area may correspond to an abstract non geometric virtual area that is defined with respect to abstract coordinates or a visual virtual area that is defined with respect to one two or three dimensional geometric coordinates. Abstract virtual areas may or may not be associated with respective visualizations whereas visual virtual areas are associated with respective visualizations.

In some of the examples that are described herein the virtual areas are visual virtual areas of the type disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 769 806 and 7 844 724. These visual virtual areas include physical geometry and collision geometry. The physical geometry describes the shape of the virtual area. The physical geometry typically is formed from surfaces of triangles quadrilaterals or polygons. Colors and textures are mapped onto the physical geometry to create a more realistic appearance for the virtual area. Lighting effects may be painted onto the visual geometry and the texture color or intensity near the lighting effects may be modified. The collision geometry describes invisible surfaces that determine the ways in which objects can move in the virtual area. The collision geometry may coincide with the visual geometry correspond to a simpler approximation of the visual geometry or relate to application specific requirements of a virtual area designer.

Some examples of the virtual area platform enable software application designers to define the semantics of position in an abstract virtual area e.g. a software application or a computer data file . Through associations with respective connection rules these position definitions can be used for example to drive connections to virtual areas entries into virtual areas connections to communicants and other sources or sinks of realtime data streams and determinations of presence data relating to communicants network resources and network services. Additional details regarding systems and methods of defining the semantics of position in abstract virtual areas are described in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 631 008 which was filed on Dec. 4 2009.

A virtual area typically includes one or more zones. A zone may be a rendered spatial extent a set of rules applied to a spatial extent or both. Zones may be arranged hierarchically in a virtual area with an outermost zone referred to herein as the global governance zone enclosing all other zones in the virtual area. Within the global governance zone there can be location zones e.g. rooms of a virtual area or smaller governance zones that enclose a group of location zones and provide regions of governance on the map. A zone definition typically also includes one or more channel definitions that describe how to create respective channels in the zone and specify the information about the channel that is published to a client network node that becomes present in the zone. A channel is always uniquely defined point to point and is unique to a virtual area application and a session between a client network node and the virtual area platform.

Examples of the types of rules that may be associated with a zone include switching rules governance rules and permission rules.

Switching rules govern realtime stream connections between network nodes that are linked to the virtual area e.g. network nodes that are associated with objects such as avatars in the virtual area . The switching rules typically include a description of conditions for connecting sources and sinks of realtime data streams in terms of positions in the virtual area. Each switching rule typically includes attributes that define the realtime data stream type to which the rule applies and the location or locations in the virtual area where the rule applies. In some examples each of the rules optionally may include one or more attributes that specify a required role of the source a required role of the sink a priority level of the stream and a requested data routing topology. In some examples if there are no explicit switching rules defined for a particular part of the virtual area one or more implicit or default switching rules may apply to that part of the virtual area. One exemplary default switching rule is a rule that connects every source to every compatible sink within a zone of a virtual area subject to policy rules. Policy rules may apply globally to all connections between the area clients or only to respective connections with individual area clients. An example of a policy rule is a proximity policy rule that only allows connections of sources with compatible sinks that are associated with respective objects that are within a prescribed distance or radius of each other in the virtual area. The network connections between network nodes may be arranged in a variety of different data routing topologies including a peer to peer topology a mediated topology i.e. a topology in which connections between network nodes are mediated by another network node such as a server network node a client network node or a network switch and hybrid architectures that combine aspects of peer to peer and mediated architectures. In some examples the switching rules dictate how local connection processes executing on each of the network nodes establishes communications with the other network nodes based on the locations of the associated objects in the zones of the virtual area. A switching rule also may define a direct connection between network nodes or an indirect connection through an intermediate network node e.g. the proxy node shown in .

Governance rules control who has access to resources e.g. the virtual area itself regions with the virtual area and objects within the virtual area who has access to data e.g. data streams and other content that is associated with the virtual area what is the scope of that access to the data associated the virtual area e.g. what can a user do with the data and what are the follow on consequences of accessing that data e.g. record keeping such as audit logs and payment requirements . In some examples an entire virtual area or a zone of the virtual area is associated with a governance mesh that enables a software application developer to associate governance rules with a virtual area or a zone of a virtual area. This avoids the need for the creation of individual permissions for every file in a virtual area and avoids the need to deal with the complexity that potentially could arise when there is a need to treat the same document differently depending on the context.

A permission rule defines a respective capability requirement e.g. for a respective action behavior or state in terms of one or more capabilities attributes and settings which may be persistent or transient. Examples of permission rules include a rule that conditions a communicant s ability to enter a target zone on the communicant having a CanEnterZone capability for the target zone a rule that conditions the ability of a grantee communicant to open a target door of a target room on the grantee communicant having a CanOpenDoor capability for the target room and a rule that conditions the transmission of a message describing the state of a particular communicant s avatar in a zone to a recipient having a CanSeeState capability for the particular communicant in the zone. A capability provides permission for a client to perform some action within the application. For example a client may be granted the capability CanEnterZone for a specific zone within a virtual area that has been defined with that capability requirement. The client that has the capability can enter the zone whereas a client without the capability would have their RDS state change rejected when they tried to enter the zone. Examples of capabilities systems for administering permission rules are described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 535 910 filed Sep. 16 2011.

As explained above the zones of a virtual area can be associated with respective switching rules each of which instructs the area service to connect sources of a respective data stream type that are associated with a designated source zone with sinks of the respective realtime data stream type that are associated with a designated sink zone. Network nodes can establish respective presences in the zones of a virtual area. In some examples network nodes associated with respective objects e.g. avatars representing the communicants operating the network nodes that can be moved to different locations in the virtual area and the network nodes are present in the zones in which the associated objects are located. The area service administers data stream connections between the network nodes based on the switching rules the respective sources and sinks associated with the network nodes and the respective zones of the virtual area in which the objects are located.

The virtual area platform enables a wide variety of highly customizable virtual area applications to be created. Examples of such applications include virtual area applications for creating a virtual office a virtual personal space a virtual art gallery a virtual concert hall a virtual auditorium a virtual conference room and a virtual clubhouse. The virtual area platform supports the creation of network connections between network nodes in the same zone of a virtual area as well as the creation of one way or two way data stream connections between network nodes in different zones.

A virtual area typically is associated with a specific set of communicants e.g. members of the virtual area and a plurality of persistent zones that define respective sub contexts within the virtual area. Each zone of a virtual area may support an independent communication session between the network nodes in the zone. For example a virtual area may include zones in which audio video and text chat channel connections are established only between the sources and sinks of network nodes that are in the same zone. In addition one or more attributes or other data e.g. a name a designated purpose membership or associated history of interaction in the zone may be associated with a virtual area zone to define a specific persistent virtual communication context that represents a particular persistent communication opportunity within the virtual area for organizing a communicant s communications with others. In addition a virtual area may include multiple zones that provide different contexts for the presence states of the user and other communicants in those zones. Each zone may be associated with one or more semantic signifiers e.g. a textual label a visual design or a spatial layout or other elements that connote a particular context from which other communicants can infer a multi dimensional presence state for the communicants who are present in the zone. In some embodiments a spatial metaphor enriches the presence states within a zone with location based cues such as proximity of communicants to elements of the zone or proximity of communicants to each other. In some examples the visual and audio interfaces that are provided on the client network nodes are configured to present realtime indications of all the independent communication sessions that are occurring in the virtual area. This allows a user to visualize multiple concurrent independent communication interactions and thereby quickly learn who is interacting with whom and the contexts of those interactions as defined by the zones in which the interactions are occurring .

The visual zones and the global governance zone are associated with respective switching rules that define how data streams are sourced and sunk in the virtual area . In the illustrated example each of the visual zones is associated with a respective switching rule that prescribes that audio streams sourced by network nodes in the zone be published on a respective voice control channel that other network nodes in the zone can subscribe to enabling communicants in the same zone to communicate with each other via voice. The global governance zone is associated with a switching rule that prescribes that chat streams sourced by networks in the global governance zone be published on a respective chat channel that other network nodes in the global governance zone can subscribe to enabling communicants in any of the visual zones to communicant with one another via text chat and to access an area wide chat history that the virtual area platform maintains for the virtual area . The global governance zone also is associated with a switching rule that prescribes that audio streams sourced by network nodes in the global governance zone be published on a respective audio channel that other network nodes in the global governance zone can subscribe to enabling communicants anywhere in the virtual area to communicant with one another via voice.

Each of the visual zones contains objects and visual embellishments that suggest the intended function of the zone.

For example the visual audio zone includes a sound system object that is associated with one or more audio streaming services e.g. Pandora Radio iTunes Slacker Radio that enable communicants to stream audio content to their respective client network nodes. In this example the visual audio zone is associated with a respective switching rule that prescribes that audio streams sourced by the sound system object be published on a respective audio control channel that network nodes in the zone can subscribe to enabling communicants in the zone to receive and co consume the audio streams from the one or more audio services.

The visual document sharing zone includes a couch object a table object supporting a document object a viewscreen object and a plant embellishment . The couch object includes seat positions where communicant avatars may be located and has a visualization that connotes activities or states of mind that typically are associated with sitting e.g. private conversation waiting or reading a data file associated with the document object .

The table object typically is associated with file sharing functionality of the virtual area platform that enables communicants to upload computer data files to server storage in association with the document sharing zone and to download data files that are associated with the document sharing zone from the server storage to the respective client network nodes. In the example shown in the document object is associated with a computer data file that has been uploaded to the virtual area platform in association with the document sharing zone . The document object may be selected by a communicant e.g. by double clicking the document object with an input device such as a computer mouse to initiate downloading of the associated computer data file to the communicant s client network node. In other examples the table object is associated with one or more news content delivery services e.g. CNN National Public Radio New York Times Wall Street Journal and Wired magazine . In these examples the visual document sharing zone is associated with a respective switching rule that prescribes that data sourced by the table object be published on a respective news content control channel that network nodes in the zone can subscribe to enabling communicants in the zone to receive and co consume news content from the one or more news content delivery services.

The viewscreen object typically is associated with application sharing functionality of the platform that enables communicants in the document sharing zone to share applications e.g. desktop publishing applications such as the Microsoft Word application and web browsing applications such as the Microsoft Internet Explorer web browser application operating on their respective client network nodes. In some examples the application sharing is achieved by peer to peer screen sharing from a sharing client network node to one or more subscribing ones of the other network nodes in the zone as described in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 418 270 filed Apr. 3 2009. In this example the visual document sharing zone is associated with a respective switching rule that prescribes that application sharing data streams sourced by the viewscreen object be published on a respective application sharing control channel that network nodes in the zone can subscribe to enabling other communicants in the zone to receive the application sharing streams being shared by the sharing client network node.

The visual video zone includes a video system object that typically is associated with one or more video streaming services e.g. the Hulu YouTube and Netflix media streaming services that enable communicants to stream video content to their respective client network nodes. The visual video zone also is associated with a respective switching rule that prescribes that video streams sourced by the video system object be published on a respective video control channel that network nodes in the zone can subscribe to enabling communicants in the zone to receive and co consume video streams from the one or more video services.

Each of the first and second image sharing zones is associated with a respective image viewing object that typically is associated one or more image sharing services e.g. any of the Facebook Flickr and Picasa image sharing services that enable communicants to stream image content to their respective client network nodes. Each of the first and second image sharing zones also is associated with a respective switching rule that prescribes that image data streams sourced by the respective image viewing object be published on a respective image control channel that network nodes in the zone can subscribe to enabling communicants in the zone to receive and co consume images from the one or more image sharing services.

In some examples an area object represents a virtual area. In these examples the virtual area platform generates for each virtual area a respective area object that is linked to a variety of different types of information relating to the virtual area. An area object is a data structure that has an identity property that distinguishes it from other meeting objects a state property that describes the data stored in the object and a behavior property that describes the methods in the object s interface by which the object can be used. The virtual area platform may link a wide variety of information to an area object including for example 

In some examples the virtual area platform associates with each of respective ones of the area objects one or more of a zone identifier value identifying the zone in which the respective communicant interaction or other event occurred one or more communicant identifier values identifying respective ones of the communicants who participated in the respective interaction or other event and one or more time parameter values associated with the respective interaction or other event. In some examples the virtual area platform records text chat data streams transmitted between communicants in a virtual area and associates the recorded text chat data with the area object for that virtual area. In some examples the virtual area platform records one or more data streams e.g. an audio data a video data stream and an application sharing data stream that are transmitted between communicants in a virtual area and associates the one or more recorded data streams with the area object for that virtual area. In some examples the virtual area platform associates a file shared by a communicant in a virtual area with the area object for that virtual area. In some examples the virtual area platform associates with a respective one of the area objects a respective label e.g. a name or a descriptive title submitted by a communicant in connection with an interaction or event e.g. an assembly of communicants in the corresponding virtual area. In some examples the virtual area platform associates with an area object a respective link to a note submitted in connection with an interaction or event in the associated virtual area. In some examples the virtual area platform associates with an area object a respective link to a description of follow up tasks submitted in connection with an interaction or event in the corresponding virtual area. In some examples the virtual area platform associates respective status indicators with respective ones of the area objects where each status indicator typically includes an indication of the state of an interaction or other event in the associated virtual area e.g. whether an assembly in the virtual area is in progress or has ended .

In some examples the virtual area platform receives one or more feedback submissions regarding a respective interaction or event in association with the area activity summary data for the corresponding virtual area and associates the one or more feedback submissions with the area object for that virtual area. In some examples the virtual area platform receives one or more communicant submissions on the merits of a particular interaction or event in association with the area activity summary data for the corresponding virtual area determines a score based on the one or more received communicant submissions and associates the score with the area object for the corresponding virtual area.

The client network node includes an example of the communications application and a browser component . The communications application includes a user interface component that generates a graphical user interface that interfaces the user to the realtime communications and network browsing functionalities of the browser component. The communications application establishes with other client network nodes respective peer to peer sessions for exchanging realtime communications e.g. transmitting realtime audio video and application sharing information and establishes with the server node a server session for exchanging control information realtime activity information and state information. The browser component provides a set of web browsing functions including browser functions document viewing functions and data downloading functions. The browser component may be integrated into the communications application or it may be implemented by a separate browser component e.g. a plug in that exposes an API through which the communications application may call methods that are available from the browser component including browsing methods document rendering methods and data downloading methods. In other examples the functionality of the browser component is provided by a standalone web browser application e.g. Google Chrome Apple Safari Mozilla Firefox and Microsoft Internet Explorer web browser applications that is not integrated with the communications application .

The virtual area platform includes an example of the server node an API Application Programming Interface server a web server and a database .

The database includes interaction records and area objects . As explained above each interaction record describes the context of an interaction between a pair of communicants. In addition to identifying the communicants involved the place of interaction and start and end times of the interaction an interaction record also may include links to other information relating to the interaction including any shared content chat logs and recordings . Each area object describes information relating to a particular virtual area. In some examples this information includes time information area attributes area membership information and links to other information relating to interactions between communicants and assemblies of co present communicants including any label information notes follow up tasks comments evaluations shared files chat logs and recordings . In some examples the server node manages the collection of information that is incorporated into the interaction records and the area objects . In these examples the server node monitors communicant interactions in a virtual area and stores data relating to those interactions in memory. In some examples whenever a pair of co present communicants is detected the server node generates interaction records from the information stored in memory on a regular interval. Similarly whenever an assembly of copresent communicants is detected the server node generates meeting records from the information stored in memory on a regular interval. Thus in these examples the interaction records and the area objects are different views on the same communicant interaction data that is stored in memory.

The API server includes one or more libraries of functions that manage accesses to the database . In some examples the API server provides a REST REpresentational State Transfer style of web API through which the server node and the web server are able to create read update and delete entries in the database . The API server can retrieve a particular one of the data files based on results of a query on the interaction records and area objects requested by a particular network node. In response to the request the API server typically transmits to the particular network node a storage location identifier associated with the particular data file or it may transmit to the particular network node information derived from one or more of the database entries identified in a result of a query on the database .

The web server delivers network resources in response to requests from the browser component executing on the client network node . The information resources typically are delivered in accordance with the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . The information resources commonly are hypertext documents e.g. HyperText Markup Language HTML documents which may reference for example images style sheets scripts e.g. JavaScripts and streaming data e.g. streaming audio data streaming video data other streaming information such as realtime stock quotes and realtime alerts and other event information . The web server hosts a Sococo Spaces application that delivers user interface content and functionality to the browser component on the client network node . In this process the web server delivers HTML documents style sheets and scripts from which the browser component creates a Sococo Spaces application user interface for retrieving information from and sending information to the Sococo Spaces application . In some examples the Sococo Spaces application user interface is generated in a pane of a communications user interface generated by the communications application .

Realtime communications between the various nodes and may be carried over a realtime transport layer. In some examples instead of receiving updates on polling or on page load some examples receive updates in realtime using any of a variety of technologies e.g. Socket IO or WebSockets . In some examples realtime audio and video streams may be rendered in accordance with any of a variety of realtime rendering technologies e.g. HTML5 audio or video tags or Flash audio or video interfaces .

In operation the browser component sends to the web server a request for the Sococo Spaces application user interface and application logic. The browser component loads the application logic and the Sococo Spaces application user interface. Based on the application logic the browser component generates the Sococo Spaces application user interface in the graphical user interface of the communications application . Based on user input selecting a particular visualization of the area object data the browser component requests area object data from the API server e.g. using Socket or WebSockets and then populates the Sococo Spaces application user interface with data e.g. area activity summary data that it receives from the API server . The web server maintains persistent connections with the API server and the browser component so that it can receive updates about areas and their objects e.g. participants joining and leaving an area and new information such as praise comments notes follow up tasks and other information that is attached to the area objects from the API server and deliver those updates to the browser component on the client network node .

The Sococo Spaces application provides one or more user interfaces for associating information with area objects. In some examples the Sococo Spaces application delivers one or more user interfaces that enable a user to specify one or more properties of an area object e.g. an area label specify which types of area related data should be recorded by the server node and associated with the area object and enter notes follow up tasks comments praise and other feedback.

As explained in detail below virtual areas of the types shown in may be initiated in a variety of different ways. In some examples the virtual area may have been initiated by a user who submitted a request to create a virtual area in connection with a context defined by a Twitter microblog thread involving one or more communicants a link to an audio track available from a streaming music network service or real world location data. Initially a virtual area may consist of a single global governance zone that is provisioned for realtime chat communications between communicants. As additional context defining data is associated with the virtual area as a result of for example individual communicant contributions or interactions between communicants additional context specific functionality may be added to the single zone of the virtual area or additional context specific zones may be added to the virtual area. The virtual area platform may add the additional functionality and zones automatically as new data is associated with the virtual area or a user may explicitly add such functionality and zones by entering commands through the Sococo Spaces application user interface.

As explained above the virtual area platform creates virtual areas based on contexts that are defined by users the virtual area platform or third party entities in terms of one or more of content people and real world location.

In some examples the content item includes one or more of image based content e.g. video content conversation content e.g. a topic thread activity feed content describing activity of one or more communicants and syndicated web feed content.

In some examples the request includes an identifier of the user and optionally a respective identifier of each of one or more other communicants. In some of these examples the virtual area platform sends a list of communicants to the user s network node and the request includes the user s selection of one or more communicants in the list. In the process of creating the virtual area the virtual area platform designates the user and each of the other communicants as a respective member of the virtual area.

In some examples the request includes an identifier of the content item and the virtual area platform associates the content item identifier with the virtual area. In some examples the virtual area platform receives from a web browser component of the user s network node a request that includes a uniform resource locator URL value that is associated with the content item and the virtual area platform associates the URL with the virtual area. In some examples the request includes a topic label and the virtual area platform associates the topic label with the virtual area.

After the virtual area has been created the virtual area platform may associate with the virtual area a variety of other information including for example information relating to communicant interactions in the virtual area e.g. recorded data streams such as text chat data voice data and application sharing data and logged event data .

In some examples the virtual area platform determines summary data from information relating to communicant interactions in the virtual area and publishes the summary data as an activity feed to which network nodes may subscribe. The virtual area platform typically incorporates a link for navigating to the virtual area in the summary data.

The graphical user interface includes an address bar a bookmarks bar that includes a Sococo Spaces button back and forward navigation buttons a Go button a Stop button and a main browser panel for displaying content e.g. a web page rendered by the rendering engine of the web browser component. A user can enter a URL of a network resource e.g. web pages into the address bar and select the Go button to navigate to a particular network resource identified by the URL. In the illustrated example the user has entered the URL www.xyzimageshare.com art into the address bar and selected the Go button . In response the web browser component has navigated to a web page for browsing Art s image repository at the xyzimageshare.com web site. The web page includes a header section a navigation bar a contents section notices and navigation links . The header section includes a logo and a login section that allows users to sign into their account with a web server that is serving the web page. The navigation bar contains links e.g. hypertext links to other pages of a web site that includes the web page. The contents section includes a set of content slots for respective content based objects. In the illustrated example the content based objects are image thumbnails that are associated with links e.g. URLs to respective images contained in Art s image repository. The notices typically include various legal e.g. copyright and other notices that the web site owner wishes to convey to users of the web site. The navigation links include links to specific pages that are associated with the web site including links to a search page a link to a page that describes the terms and conditions relating to the use of the web site a link to a page that provides a map of the web site and a link to a help page.

Referring to in response to user selection of the Sococo Spaces button the web browser component sends to the virtual area platform a request that includes the URL for the current web page i.e. www.xyzimageshare.com shown in the contents section . The virtual area platform determines whether the current web page is associated with any content items of one or more particular content types e.g. images streaming media content such as video and audio and conversation thread content that the virtual area platform is configured to associate with virtual areas. If the virtual area platform does not detect any content items of the particular content types associated with the current web page the virtual area platform returns a specification of a notification message that the web browser component displays to inform the user that the current web page does not contain any content items that can be associated with a virtual area. If the current web page contains one or more content items of the particular content types the virtual area platform extracts the one or more content items from the web page generates a proof web page containing a layout of graphical representations of the extracted content items and one or more controls and sends the proof web page to the web browser component for rendering in the graphical user interface .

In the illustrated example the proof web page includes a header section that includes a Sococo Spaces label a Send to Sococo button a Cancel button and a layout area that shows the layout of the graphical representations of extracted content items i.e. images . In response to user selection of individual ones of the graphical representations of the content items the web browser component displays respective overlays over the selected graphical representations. After selecting one or more graphical representations the user can select the Send to Sococo button or the Cancel button . In response to user selection of the Send to Sococo button the web browser component sends to the virtual area platform a request to associate the content items associated with the selected graphical representations with a virtual area.

Referring to in response to the association request the virtual area platform communicates with the web browser component of the user s client network node. In some examples the virtual area platform sends to the web browser component preformatted web documents e.g. a hypertext markup language HTML document that the browser component displays as interface components e.g. dialog boxes in the graphical user interface .

In response to user selection of the Send to Existing Area menu entry the web browser component displays a dropdown list of names of existing virtual areas that are associated with the user e.g. virtual areas of which the user is a member . In response to user selection of a respective one of the existing virtual area names in the list e.g. Saturday Morning Climbers the web browser component generates a dialog box that allows the user to enter a description of the selected content e.g. Sanctuary images and select either a Send to Saturday Morning Climbers button to send the content to the virtual area platform for association with the existing Saturday Morning Climbers virtual area or a Cancel button to cancel the process. In response to user selection of the Send to Saturday Morning Climbers button the web browser component transmits the content description and links e.g. URLs for the selected content items to the virtual area platform . The virtual area platform associates the selected content items with the designated virtual area and sends to the web browser component a notification indicating that the selected content has been associated with the designated virtual area and a control for navigating the user to the designated virtual area.

In response to user selection of the Create Space button the web browser component transmits the new area attribute and invitee information to the virtual area platform . The virtual area platform generates a new virtual area that is associated with the attribute and invitee information and sends to the web browser component a dialog box that allows the user to enter a description of the selected content e.g. Sanctuary images . The dialog box also allows the user to select either a Send to Beach Combers button to send the content to the virtual area platform for association with the new Beach Combers virtual area or a Cancel button to cancel the process. In response to user selection of the Send to Beach Combers button the web browser component transmits the content description and links e.g. URLs for the selected content items to the virtual area platform . The virtual area platform associates the selected content items with the designated virtual area and returns a specification of a notification message that the web browser component displays to inform the user that the selected content has been associated with the designated virtual area. The notification message also includes a control for navigating the user to the designated virtual area.

In some examples the request includes a message. The virtual area platform sends the message to each of the one or more communicants in the user s selection. In the process of creating the virtual area the virtual area platform typically associates the message with the virtual area. In some examples each communication includes a link e.g. a hyperlink such as a URL for accessing the virtual area.

In some examples the virtual area platform sends the user a list of the user s contacts. A contact of a user is a communicant who is connected to the user either by an explicit social network tie that is declared by at least one of the user and the communicant and optionally confirmed by the other or by a social network tie that is inferred from interactions between the user and the communicant. In some embodiments the virtual area platform promotes communicant interactions based on explicit attribute values that are declared by communicants and inferred attribute values that are derived from statistical analyses of the results of queries on the relationship database . Each relationship type attribute value typically specifies a type of a social network tie. Exemplary relationship types include a kinship type e.g. father of cousin of an affective type e.g. respects likes a cognitive type e.g. knows friends with acquaintance of and social role type e.g. teacher of works with . Examples of embodiments of methods of inferring such attribute values are described in section IV of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 631 026 filed Dec. 4 2009.

Within each virtual area section the communicants who are present in the respective virtual area are grouped as follows the communicants in the user s current zone of presence i.e. Image Module in this example are displayed in a capsule at the top of the section next communicants who are co presence with other communicants in respective zones of the respective virtual area are displayed in respective zones of co presence capsules the communicants who are alone in respective zones of the virtual area are displayed in a respective Other Rooms capsule and the communicant members of an area who currently are not present in the area are displayed in respective Not Present capsules . The zones of co presence filtering criteria identify those communicants who are co present in respective zones of a virtual area. Thus for each virtual area the communicants in each group of two or more co present communicants in the same zone of the virtual area are listed in a separate selectively expandable and collapsible zone of co presence capsule in a respective virtual area section of the graphical user interface . The depiction of the zones of co presence enables Art to readily visualize all of the multi communicant interactions e.g. conversations that are occurring across all of the communication contexts that are defined by the virtual areas of which Art is a member. In this way Art can determine whether or not there are any ongoing multi communicant interactions that he would like to join. In some examples each of the capsules for the current zone of presence and the zones of the co presences is associated with a respective descriptive user navigable link e.g. a URI link that includes the name of the zone and other information such as a label that describes the topic of a meeting currently taking place in the zone .

Within the Contacts section the communicants are filtered into groups according to different respective filtering criteria. These groups include a Frequent contacts group in which Art s contacts are sorted by the frequency of their respective interactions with Art a Recent contacts group in which Art s contacts are sorted by the recentness of their respective interactions with Art an Online contacts group that lists all of Art s contacts who currently are online e.g. connected to the virtual area platform and an Offline contacts group that lists all of Art s contacts who currently are offline e.g. disconnected from the virtual area platform .

In the graphical user interface each communicant is represented graphically by a respective circular sprite or avatar that is associated with a respective user name of the communicant i.e. Art Beth Carl Dan Ed Fran Helen Jim Kim Frank and Sue and an optional status line that includes additional information about the communicant such as location of presence e.g. a virtual area or a zone of a virtual area availability e.g. busy idle a status message e.g. Out of the office next Wednesday and the name of the client node from which the communicant is operating e.g. workstation or mobile phone .

The virtual area platform monitors the activities on various communication channels over which the respective communicants are configured to communicate in the virtual areas and generates state data that indicate state information about the communicants and real time data streams RDS that indicate the current realtime activities of the communicants. These states and activities are represented in the graphical user interface by visual cues that are depicted in association with the graphical representations of the communicants. For example the on or off state of a communicant s local speaker channel is depicted by the presence or absence of a headphones graphic on the communicant s sprite. When a communicant s speakers are on the headphones graphic is present see sprites Carl Ed and Dan and when a communicant s speakers are off the headphones graphic is absent. The on or off state of the communicant s microphone is depicted by the presence or absence of a microphone graphic on the communicant s sprite. When a communicant s microphone is on the microphone graphic is present see sprites Ed and Dan and when a communicant s microphone is off the microphone graphic is absent. The headphones graphic and the microphone graphic provide visual cues of the on or off states of the communicant s sound playback and microphone devices. In addition the current activity state of a communicant s microphone channel is indicated by a dynamic visualization that lightens and darkens the communicant s avatar in realtime to reflect the presence or absence of audio data on the microphone channel. Thus whether or not their local speakers are turned on communicants can determine when another communicant is speaking by the blinking of the coloration of that communicant s avatar. The activity state of a communicant s text chat channel is depicted by the presence or absence of a hand graphic adjacent the communicant s sprite see sprite Beth . Thus when a communicant is transmitting text chat data to another network node the hand graphic is present and when a communicant is not transmitting text chat data the hand graphic is not present. In some examples the text chat RDS data reflects when keyboard keys are depressed such that the visualization of the communicant s text channel appears as a flashing on and off of the hand graphic . In addition the avatars of communicants who are viewing a shared application in connection with viewscreen objects are depicted with a pair of eyes to indicate that the represented communicants are viewing the content being shared in connection with the viewscreen props see e.g. the avatars of Art Ed and Dan .

Members of a virtual area are able to receive the state and RDS information for the communicants in the user s virtual areas of membership whether or not the user is present in the virtual area. For example the graphical user interface that is presented to Art shows visual cues indicating the states and communication channel activities of the communicants who are present in the Area virtual area where Art is present and the states and communication channel activities of the communicants who are present in other areas of which Art is a member but not currently present e.g. the Area virtual area .

The graphical user interface includes a people interaction toolbar that includes a Chat button a Get button a Call button and a Sococo Spaces button that are associated with respective interaction functionalities of the platform that operate with respect to one or more communicants associated with user selected ones of the avatars in the graphical user interface .

Selection of the Chat button in connection with a user selected avatar in the graphical user interface opens a chat panel that enables the user to open a private peer to peer zone for text chatting with the communicant corresponding to a selected one of the avatars. Selection of the Get button in connection with one or more user selected avatars in the graphical user interface opens an invite window that enables the user to invite the communicants corresponding to the one or more selected avatars to a virtual area location e.g. an area application or zone within that area application designated by the user. Additional details regarding embodiments of the methods and functions invoked by the Chat button and the Get button are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 354 709 filed Jan. 15 2009 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 209 812 filed Aug. 15 2011.

Selection of the Call button opens a call window that enables the user to place a telephone call to one or more communicants as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 165 729 filed Jun. 21 2011. The called communicants are represented in the graphical user interface by avatars that are decorated with graphical representations of a telephone.

Selection of the Sococo Spaces button enables the user to create a new virtual area based on a context defined in terms of one or more of the user s contacts selected in the graphical user interface. In the illustrated example the user has selected the avatars of Beth Fran Dan Frank and Sue as indicated by the overlays positioned over their respective avatars. Upon selection of the Sococo Spaces button the user s client network node sends to the virtual area platform a request that includes profile information for the selected contacts. The virtual area platform sends to the user s client network node a dialog box that allows the user to set certain attributes of the new virtual area that will be wrapped around the selected contacts including an Area Name e.g. Going Out Tonight for the virtual area and an iconographic representation of the virtual area. The dialog box also allowed the user to star the virtual area to designate the virtual area as a favorite area. The dialog box lists the selected contacts as invitees who will be invited to the new virtual area. The dialog box includes a Message box that allows the user to specify a message e.g. Join me in Sococo to discuss where we should go out tonight. Perhaps Buck s. Click this link. that will be sent to the selected invitees. The dialog box also includes a Send Message Create Space button for initiating the virtual area creation process and a Cancel button to cancel the process.

In response to user selection of the Send Message Create Space button the user s client network node transmits the new area attribute to the virtual area platform . The virtual area platform generates a new virtual area that is associated with the selected contact invitees and the message entered in the Message box . The virtual area platform returns a specification of a notification that the user s network node displays to inform the user that messages have been sent to the selected invitees and that a virtual area has been created for the user and the selected contacts. The notification includes a control for navigating the user to the newly created virtual area.

In some examples the virtual area platform creates the virtual area based on a request received from a user s network node in connection with real world location. In some examples the location data describes a real world location of the user s network node e.g. real world coordinates generated by a Global Positioning System GPS service a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM service or other location based service associated with the user s network node or some other real world location. The real world location that is associated with the virtual area may be fixed or may change over time. An example of a fixed real world location that might be associated with the virtual area is the location of a stationary object such as a building or other physical structure e.g. one or more structures associated with a commercial establishment . An example of changing real world locations that might be associated with the virtual area is the current real world location of the user.

In some examples the virtual area platform automatically invites all of the communicants who are determined to be present in the real world location to the virtual area. In other examples the virtual area platform presents a list of the determined communicants to the user and allows the user to select which of the determined communicants to invite to the virtual area.

In some examples the virtual area platform creates the virtual area based on a determination that the real world coordinates of one or more of the communicants satisfy a location based predicate.

Referring to in some examples the virtual area platform automatically creates a virtual area in response to a determination that the real world locations of two or more communicants satisfy a proximity predicate e.g. the communicants are within a particular distance from one another and an optional time predicate e.g. the communicants must satisfy the proximity predicated for at least a threshold length of time . In the illustrated example the virtual area platform automatically creates a virtual area for communicants operating respective network nodes whose locations can be circumscribed by a virtual circular boundary with a diameter of at most a specified threshold diameter e.g. three meters . In other examples the virtual area platform automatically creates a virtual area for communicants in response to a determination that their respective network nodes are located within a specified distance of a target one of the network nodes .

Referring to in some examples the virtual area platform automatically creates a virtual area in response to a determination that a communicant s network node is located within a designated real world space. In the illustrated example the virtual area platform automatically creates a virtual area for communicants who are operating respective network nodes e.g. mobile phones whose locations are within a specified real world coordinate boundary within a building but does not create such a virtual area for communicants whose network nodes e.g. mobile phone are located outside the real world coordinate boundary . In some examples the virtual area platform conditions the creation of the virtual area on there being at least two co present communicants within the real world coordinate boundary e.g. communicants who are located within the real world coordinate boundary and optionally for a period of at least a threshold length of time e.g. one minute .

The people panel contains an example of the graphical user interface see which shows the realtime availabilities and activities of some or all of Art s contacts across different communication contexts.

As explained in detail below the viewer panel presents different visual information depending on the viewer panel controls that have been selected by the user.

The chat panel shows a chat interface for a persistent virtual chat area for interactions occurring in connection with a respective virtual area. The chat interface of the chat panel includes a chat log area a text box and a Send button . The user may enter text messages in the text box and transmit the text messages to the other communicants who are in Area by selecting the Send button . In the example shown in Art activated the chat panel button at the time he was present in the Image Module zone of the Area virtual area see virtual area in therefore the chat log area shows the persistent virtual chat history for text chat interactions occurring in connection with Area . The chat log area also displays a log of events that are associated with Area . An exemplary set of events that may be displayed in the chat log area include text messages that the user has exchanged with other communicants in the zone changes in the presence status of communicants in the zone changes in the speaker and microphone settings of the communicants in the zone and the status of the props discussed below including references to any applications and data files that are shared in connection with the props. In the illustrated example the events are labeled by the communicant s name followed by content associated with the event e.g. a text message or a description of the event.

The audio interaction toolbar includes a headphone control that enables Art to toggle on and off the local speakers of the client network node and a microphone control that enables Art to toggle on and off the local microphone of the client network node.

The graphical user interface also includes a Phone button a respective Viewscreen button for each viewscreen in the user s current zone of presence a Map button and an Activity Feed AF button . The Phone button is associated with telephony related functionality of the platform that enables a user of a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN terminal device to participate in virtual area based communications e.g. by the PSTN terminal device user calling into a zone of the virtual area or by a user of the communications application to call out to the PSTN terminal device user as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 165 729 filed Jun. 21 2011. The Viewscreen button sets the viewer panel to display the content the content being shared in connection with the corresponding viewscreen object in the current zone of presence or if no content is being shared in connection with the current viewscreen object to display a Share button that allows the user to initiate a screen sharing session in connection with the selected viewscreen object. The Map button sets the view presented in the viewer panel to a map view of the virtual area in which the user either is present or lurking. The Activity Feed button opens an Activity Feed panel for visualizing published activities and other events relating to virtual areas of interest to the user.

In the example shown in the Map button is selected which places the viewer panel into the map view mode. Consequently the viewer panel shows a spatial visualization of the area or area zone in which the user currently is present namely the Image Module zone of Area as indicated in the location bar by the address Area1 Image Module1. The user can move to a different zone of the virtual area either by selecting the graphical representation of the zone in the spatial representation shown in the viewer panel .

In some examples the virtual area platform automatically associates zones with application specific rendering modules also referred to as plugins that are needed to render content associated with the zones of the virtual area. Examples of such rendering modules include viewscreen modules audio player modules video player modules and image modules. A viewscreen module provides functionality and an interface for web browser and application sharing. An audio player module provides functionality and an interface for audio playback. A video player module provides functionality and an interface for video playback. An image module provides functionality and an interface for image playback. Each of the rendering modules is associated with a respective context dependent button that automatically is presented in the interface when the user s current state allows the user to interact with particular content.

In the example shown in the user is present in the Image Module zone of Area which is associated with image content e.g. images that have been associated with Area or images available from an image sourcing web service such as an image sharing web service that have been associated with Area . Thus when the user is present in the Image Module zone the graphical user interface includes an image module button that is associated with functionality and an interface for image playback.

Referring to when the user selects the image module button the viewer panel switches from the map view of Area to an image playback interface that is generated by the image playback module designated for handling image playback by the virtual area platform . In this example the image playback interface includes a display area that has four display screens for displaying images that have been associated with Area and are listed in an image list . The user can drag and drop images from the image list to respective ones of the display screens each of which may be associated with a respective category or group label e.g. a favorites group or other category . The user can select one of the display screens e.g. the highlighted display screen and scroll through images allocated to the selected display screen either as an automated slide show or manually using a set of playback controls . The user can set aside images for a particular purpose by dragging images from the image list or the display screens and dropping them onto a table object where they are represented graphically by respective image objects . The image playback interface includes a Praise control for submitting an indication of praise or like for a selected image a Comment control for submitting a comment in connection with a selected image an Edit control for accessing tools for editing a selected image and a Delete control for deleting a selected image.

In the example shown in the user has moved to the Audio Module zone of the Area virtual area which is associated with audio content e.g. musical tracks and other audio files that members have associated with Area or audio tracks available from an image sourcing web services such as a music sharing web service that have been associated with Area . When the user is present in the Audio Module zone the graphical user interface includes an audio module button that is associated with functionality and an interface for audio playback. When the user selects the audio module button the viewer panel switches from the map view of Area to an audio playback interface that is generated by the audio playback module designated for handling audio playback by the virtual area platform . In this example the audio playback interface includes the sound system object and associated audio controls for controlling playback of audio tracks listed in a tracks list or playlists listed in a playlists list . The user can playback the tracks or playlists in the order in which they are listed in the tracks list or playlists list or drag and drop individual audio tracks or playlists from the tracks list or playlists list to the sound system object for immediate playback. The image playback interface includes a Praise control for submitting an indication of praise or like for a selected image a Comment control for submitting a comment in connection with a selected image an Edit control for accessing tools for editing a selected audio track and a Delete control for deleting a selected audio track.

In the example shown in the user has moved to the document sharing zone of the Area virtual area which is associated with document content e.g. web pages desktop publishing documents and other documents that have been associated with Area . When the user is present in the document sharing zone the graphical user interface includes a viewscreen button that is associated with application sharing functionality and an interface for sharing documents among co present communicants in Area . When the user selects the viewscreen button the viewer panel switches from the map view of Area to a document browsing interface that is generated by a module designated for handling application sharing by the virtual area platform . The document browsing interface includes elements of the web browser interface sown in including the address bar the bookmarks bar the Sococo Spaces button the back and forward navigation buttons the Go button the Stop button and the main browser panel . The document browsing interface additionally includes a Share button that initiates a screen share of the contents of the display area of the viewer panel in connection with the viewscreen object in Area . These contents include for example renderings of any information that is received by the browser component in connection with the network resource identified in the location bar and a document or application that is being shared by the user in connection with a viewscreen object in the user s current location of presence e.g. the viewscreen object in the document sharing zone of Area .

The application sharing functionality is invoked by activating the viewscreen object e.g. by single clicking the viewscreen object with an input device . In some embodiments the platform provides visual cues that indicate whether or not a communicant is sharing an application over an application sharing channel. In response to a communicant s selection of the viewscreen object the communicant s sprite automatically is moved to a position in the graphical representation of the virtual area that is adjacent the viewscreen object . The position of a communicant s sprite adjacent the viewscreen object indicates that the communicant currently is sharing or is about to share an application with the other communicants in the virtual area. In addition the avatar of each communicant who is viewing a shared application including the sharing communicant is depicted with a pair of eyes to indicate that the represented communicants are viewing the content being shared in connection with the viewscreen objects. The graphical depiction of viewscreen object is changed depending on whether or not an active application sharing session is occurring. For example the depicted color of the viewscreen object may change from a brighter color during an active application sharing session to a darker color when there is no application sharing taking place.

The viewscreen object may be associated with links to one or more documents or document serving network resources such as a network accessible service i.e. SugarCRM Netsuite and Unfuddle that have been associated with the virtual area. Each of the network accessible services is associated with a respective URI link i.e. http www.sugarcrm.com http www.netsuite.com and http www.unfuddle.com . The documents and services that are associated with the viewscreen object are accessed by the browser components on the client network nodes of the communicants who currently are screen sharing in connection with the viewscreen object . In this regard the contents of network resources shared by the communicant currently in charge of running viewscreen objects i.e. the moderators who might be e.g. the communicant who initially activated the viewscreen object automatically are captured from these communicants client network node and sent to the other communicants who subscribed to the application sharing channel by activating the viewscreen object . In this way all of the communicants in the document sharing zone can collaborate together in the context of the network resource interactions of the moderator in connection with the linked services. In these examples all the communicants who activate the same viewscreen object will see the same network resource contents via screen sharing.

The virtual area platform generates summaries of activities and other events in virtual areas and publishes those summaries to other communicants in realtime so that the other communicants readily can discern what s happening in different potentially relevant contexts and decide whether or not to join or otherwise participate in those contexts. The published summaries may be available to all communicants i.e. publicly available only those communicants who are socially related to the activity participants or the members of the virtual area e.g. friends or friends of friends or only members of the virtual area i.e. private .

The virtual area platform may determine the area activity summary data for the selected areas in different ways. In some examples the virtual area platform extracts area activity summary data based on queries on the area objects representing the virtual areas. These queries may be predefined or custom queries received from communicants. In some examples the virtual area platform uses a set of predefined queries to determine area activity summary data at different respective levels of detail e.g. summary label and area activity summary status only summary label summary status and communicant list and summary label summary status communicant list and notes with the interaction or event that is the subject of the summary .

The published area activity summaries may be available to all communicants only those communicants who are socially related to the activity participants or the members of the respective virtual areas e.g. friends or friends of friends or only members of the respective virtual areas. In some examples the process of selecting the area activity summaries to publish involves querying the target communicants respective social graphs. In other examples the virtual area platform publishes respective sets of area activity summaries to client network nodes based on search queries received from a client network nodes. The virtual area platform may select all or a filtered set of the area activity summaries to transmit publish to a client network node. The filter criteria may be for example one or more conditions on any type of area object attribute including for example a time attribute value a virtual location attribute value a communicant attribute value and a data type attribute value. In some examples the virtual area platform ranks area activity summaries and selects highest ranked ones of the ranked area activity summaries. In some examples for each of the area activity summaries the ranking is based on at least one of a count of communicants involved in the respective area activity summary a count of follow up tasks associated with the respective area activity summary and one or more approval ratings associated with the respective area activity summary.

In some examples the virtual area platform determines a time based ordering of the area activity summary data from a starting area activity summary to an ending area activity summary. The starting area activity summary may be the first area activity summary in a time based ordering of the area activity summaries and the ending area activity summary may be the last area activity summary in the time based ordering. The area activity summaries may be ordered chronologically or reverse chronologically according to a time attribute value e.g. start time or end time associated with the area activity summary. The virtual area platform typically transmits to one or more of the network nodes a respective specification e.g. an XML specification of a view for displaying the area activity summary data in accordance with the time based ordering.

In some examples the virtual area platform transmits an activity view of the respective area objects to the network node where the activity view shows a time based listing of respective area activity summaries for all concurrent and consecutive ones of the area activities from a starting one of the area activities to an ending one of the area activities. In some examples the virtual area platform transmits a timeline view of the respective area activity summaries to the network node where the timeline view shows a time based listing of respective area activity summaries for highest ranked ones of the area activities.

The virtual area platform also typically transmits updates to the requesting ones of the client nodes to reflect changes to existing area activities and new area activities.

In some examples the virtual area platform sends to each of one or more of the communicants who were involved in a particular one of the area activities a respective follow up message comprising information relating to the particular area activity. In some examples the respective message includes one or more of a summary of the particular area activity a note associated with the particular area activity a follow up task associated with the particular area activity and an indication of submitted evaluations of the particular area activity.

In some examples the client network node receives area activity summaries of virtual areas of which the user is a member. In other examples the client network node receives area activity summaries of virtual areas that are associated with the user through the user s social ties with the activity participants or the members of the respective virtual areas e.g. friends or friends of friends . In some examples the client network node receives publicly available area activity summaries that are associated with the user through the user s membership in the virtual area platform service.

In some examples the client network node presents an activity view of the received area activity summaries. In some of these examples the activity view shows a time based listing of area activity summaries of all concurrent and consecutive area activities from a starting one of the area activities to an ending one of the area activities. The starting and ending area activities may correspond to the first and last area activities that satisfy certain filtering criteria e.g. one or more time virtual location and communicant parameter values .

In some examples the client network node presents a timeline view of the received area activity summaries. In some of these examples the timeline view shows a time based listing of area activity summaries of highest ranked ones of the area activities of copresent communicants.

The virtual area platform may rank the area activities in a variety of different ways. In some examples the virtual area platform ranks area activities based on a score derived from a weighted combination of one or more attributes of the area activities. Examples of such attributes include 

In some examples for each of respective ones of the area activity summaries the client network node provides a respective control for submitting feedback regarding the respective area activity. Responsive to receipt of feedback in connection with a respective one of the controls associated with a given one of the area activity summaries the client network node submits to the API server a message that includes the feedback received in connection with the given area activity. In some of these examples the feedback may be a comment or an opinion e.g. an indication of praise or like on the merits of the respective assembly.

In some examples the client network node presents in connection with each of respective ones of the area activity summaries at least one of a respective area activity label a respective area activity status indication and a respective link to data associated with the respective area activity summary. In some examples the client network node presents a respective link to notes or follow up tasks associated with a respective area activity.

In some examples the client network node provides an interface for specifying a search for area activity summaries of respective area activities in terms of one or more communicants present during the respective area activities one or more zones of the virtual area in which the respective area activities occurred and a time overlapping with occurrence of the respective area activities.

In some examples the client network node displays a visualization of a virtual area together with the visualization of the area activity summaries. In these examples the client network node typically depicts graphical representations of respective communicants who are present in the virtual area. The client network node also typically provides interaction controls for managing realtime communications with one or more of the communicants in the virtual area. In some examples the virtual area includes zones each of which supports establishment of respective presences of communicants operating respective client network nodes and the area activities occur in respective ones of the zones. In some of these examples the visualization of the virtual area includes a spatial arrangement of graphical depictions of the zones and the graphical representations of communicants are shown in respective ones of the graphical depictions of the zones.

The activity visualization toolbar includes an activity view control a timeline view control an area edit control and a search control . The activity view control directs the browser component to request an area activity view on the area object data from the API server and to present that view in the activity feed section of the area activity interface. The timeline view control directs the browser component to request an area activity view on the area object data from the API server and to present that view in the activity feed section of the area activity interface. The area edit control directs the browser component to bring up in the viewer panel an area edit interface that allows the user assuming the user s has the required capability to edit one or more attributes of a virtual area e.g. a virtual area linked to a selected one of the area activity summaries or a virtual area in which the user is present . The search control directs the browser component to render in the viewer panel of the graphical user interface a search interface that enables the user to submit searches on any data associated with the area objects including virtual place communicants time keywords and content type.

The area activity interface includes a Starred Areas section an Individuals section and a Topical Areas section that correspond to different respective views on the area object data. The Starred Areas section contains area activity summaries relating to virtual areas that the user has indicated as being favorite areas by starring them see e.g. . The Individuals section contains area activity summaries relating to particular individuals whose activity summaries were designated by the user for inclusion in the Individuals section . The Topical Areas section contains other area activity summaries that are associated with the user e.g. through membership or social network ties .

The area activity interface additionally includes a Create Area control that brings up an interface for submitting a request for the virtual area platform to create a new virtual area. The Create Area request may include an interface of the type shown in that allows the user to name the virtual area and invite one or more contacts to the virtual area.

In the example shown in the user has activated the activity view control . In response to this selection the browser component generates an activity view that shows in each section a respective list of summaries of all ongoing and completed activities in the virtual areas associated with the user. In the activity view example shown in the summaries are presented at a relatively low level of detail that allows the user to quickly determine a few essential features of each area activity. In particular each summary shows a respective label e.g. SciFi Buffs an activity description that includes a list of at least some of the activity participants e.g. Fran and Ed and an indication of the type of activity e.g. watching Prometheus and a status indicator e.g. Active . The virtual area platform typically generates the area labels the activity descriptions and the status indicators automatically from the data associated with the respective area objects.

Each summary also includes a hidden collapsible content area that contains additional details regarding the respective assembly. Selecting a respective ellipsis control reveals the hidden content area. shows an example of a collapsible content area that is revealed in response to user selection of the ellipsis control for the top area activity summary shown the activity view of . In the illustrated example the collapsible content area includes the most recent portion of the chat history that is associated with the respective area activity i.e. Fran Have you seen Alien a link that brings up a notes interface for creating reading updating or deleting notes that are associated with the respective area activity a link that brings up a contacts interface for seeing the status of or communicating with one or more of the participants of the respective area activity and an indication of the number of praises that are associated with the respective area activity. The collapsible content area also includes a praise control for submitting an indication of praise or like for the respective area activity and a comment control for submitting a comment in connection with the respective area activity.

The side pane shows a condensed view of the area activity summaries . In the illustrated example instead of listing each of the area activities summaries for each of the contacts included in the Individuals section the area activity summaries are grouped by individual and each group is labeled with a respective indication of the number of area activity summaries in the group. In other examples the area activity summaries in the Starred Areas section and the Topical Areas section also are grouped by virtual area in order to further condense the view of the area activity summaries.

The center pane includes a main stage section and a chat section . The main stage section of the center pane shows an interface for the particular activity that is the subject of the selected area activity summary . In the illustrated example the interface corresponds to a video playback module for rendering the streaming video i.e. Prometheus that is being co consumed by the user s contacts i.e. Fran and Ed who are present in the Video Module zone of the SciFi Buffs virtual area. The chat section of the center pane shows the chat interface that presents the chat history for the SciFi Buffs virtual area and controls for sending chat messages to the other communicants in the SciFi Buffs virtual area.

As indicated in the people panel and in the location bar the user i.e. Art has not entered the SciFi Buffs virtual area as a result of the selection of the area activity summary . Instead the user s presence remains in its current location namely the Audio Module of Area . However by selecting the area activity summary the user is able to lurk in the area zone i.e. the Video Module zone of the SciFi Buffs virtual area that is the subject of the selected area activity summary . In this example only a single communicant referred to as a moderator who is present in the Video Module zone can control playback of the streaming video content at a time the user can only passively participate in the co consumption of the streaming video content that is controlled by the moderator. In this way the user is able to experience the content that is being co consumed by the contacts in the subject area zone and view the chat history for that area zone. Based on this realtime information the user readily can determine whether or not to participate in the co consumption of the content or otherwise interact with his contacts in the subject area zone. By selecting different area activity summaries in the side pane the user can quickly toggle between different contexts before deciding whether or not to establish a presence in a different virtual location.

The user can enter the Video Module of the SciFi Buffs virtual area by selecting the Enter SciFi Buffs control or by selecting the label for the Video Module capsule of the SciFi Buffs section of the people panel .

In some examples the Sococo Spaces application delivers one or more user interfaces that enable a user to specify one or more properties of an area object e.g. an area label specify which types of area activity data should be recorded by the server node and associated with the area object and enter notes follow up tasks comments praise and other feedback.

In some examples the browser component automatically brings up the area edit interface without requiring the user to activate the area edit control . In one example upon receiving an area creation request from a user in connection with context data e.g. one or more of content people and location data the server node creates an area object for a new virtual area and sends a notification and the unique identifier for the new area object to the communications application running on the user s client node. The communications application passes the unique identifier of the area object to the browser component which retrieves the Sococo Spaces application user interface specification and application logic from the web server and renders the area edit interface in the viewer panel.

The virtual presence apparatus typically includes software and hardware resources that enable the virtual presence apparatus to connect to the virtual area platform and the client network node either directly e.g. peer to peer or through a hosted network connection. In some examples the virtual presence apparatus or a network node hosting the virtual presence apparatus includes a complete or modified version of the communications application which provides functions for communicating with the virtual area platform and establishing network connections and communicating realtime data streams with client network nodes. When connected to the virtual area platform the virtual presence apparatus can be registered in association with and or logged into the one or more virtual areas. The registration data typically includes the globally unique identifier of the virtual presence apparatus and configuration data. The configuration data may include for example a device type identifier an indication whether the virtual presence apparatus should be associated with an existing virtual area or a new virtual area one or more conditions on the availability of the associated virtual area e.g. the associated virtual area is accessible to communicants conditioned on the virtual area apparatus being present in or logged into the virtual area a specification of the source and sink capabilities of the virtual presence apparatus a specification of a graphical representation of the virtual presence apparatus and identification of communicants who automatically should be designated as members of virtual areas in which the virtual presence equipment is present. When logged into a virtual area the virtual presence apparatus transduces human perceptible stimulus e.g. audio visual mechanical and other sensory stimulus between the client network nodes of communicants who are present in the virtual area and the physical space . In this way the virtual presence apparatus bridges a physical experience of the physical space to communicants in the one or more virtual areas i.e. communicants who are present in the virtual areas and bridges communicant interactions in the one or more virtual areas to communicants in the physical space . Exemplary virtual presence apparatus are described in U.S. application Ser. No. 13 554 051 filed Jul. 20 2012 and U.S. application Ser. No. 13 554 084 filed Jul. 20 2012.

The virtual presence apparatus is a virtual area enabled device that integrates a speakerphone and a video camera. The speakerphone includes a microphone that converts human voice sounds projected into the physical space by the communicants into output voice data that is transmitted to the client network nodes of the communicants who are present in a particular virtual area and a speaker that projects human voice sounds received from the client network nodes into the physical space . The video camera captures images of a scene in the physical space e.g. images of the communicants and converts the captured images into output image data that is transmitted to the client network nodes of communicants who are present in the particular virtual area.

The virtual area platform typically creates a new virtual area in response to a determination that one or more specified predicates on the state of the physical space are satisfied. Examples of such predicates include a person has entered the physical space at least two persons have entered the physical space a threshold time period e.g. one or more persons have been in the physical space for at least three minutes and the television has been turned on.

In some examples the virtual presence apparatus includes functionality e.g. image based motion and face detection technologies for determining when one or more persons have entered the physical space determining the identities of those persons determining when the television has been turned on and reporting such information to the virtual area platform .

In other examples the virtual area platform performs the person detection and identified processes. In some examples the virtual area platform receives location data e.g. Global Positioning System GPS data that is associated with the communicants e.g. by a GPS component of a mobile device such as a mobile phone or other mobile communication device and determines that the communicants are in Matt s physical space based on comparison of the received location data with location data associated with the physical space. In some examples the virtual area platform receives audio data from the speakerphone component of the virtual presence apparatus and associates the audio data with a communicant in the physical space based on comparison of the audio data with one or more voice data records associated with the communicant. The voice records typically correspond to voiceprints also referred to as voice templates or voice models that are created from features that are extracted from the recorded speech of known communicants in accordance with a speaker recognition enrollment process. Each voiceprint is associated with the identity of a particular communicant. The virtual area platform associates the audio data with the communicant in response to a determination that features extracted from the audio data correspond to the voiceprint previously associated with the communicant. In this way the virtual area platform can automatically identify communicants who are in the physical space without requiring them to login through respective client network nodes. Once a particular communicant in the physical space has been identified the virtual area platform can automatically establish a presence for that communicant in the virtual area associated with the virtual presence apparatus and track utterances from that communicant in the audio data captured by the virtual presence apparatus such that visual cues indicative of the state of that communicant s voice e.g. speaking or silent can be presented in the spatial visualization of the virtual area that is displayed to the remote communicant on the remote client network node .

After the virtual area platform has determined that a specified physical space state predicate has been satisfied the virtual area platform instantiates a new virtual area. The new virtual area typically is associated with a name e.g. a base name obtained from the registration data associated with the virtual presence apparatus together with a contextual name indicative of the context that triggered the creation of the virtual area e.g. Matt s Watching Goonies .

The virtual area platform also establishes a presence in the virtual area for the virtual presence apparatus and publishes area activity summaries describing activity in the virtual area to communicants e.g. all members of the virtual area platform service only the designated members of the virtual area or only the designated members and those communicants who have a social network tie to the designated members . The area activity summaries include links that allow communicants to navigate to the virtual area. In response to a request from a communicant to navigate to the virtual area the virtual area platform sends provisioning instructions for establishing respective sessions between the virtual presence apparatus and the client network node of the communicant and for displaying a graphical representation of the virtual area.

