---

title: Vehicle-based abnormal travel event detecting and reporting
abstract: A travel reporter system is used to report abnormal travel events. In use, a sensor mounted on a vehicle obtains real-time data about an object near the vehicle. The object has an object type which is identified by processing the real-time data with an object recognition subsystem of the travel reporter system. An event evaluation subsystem of the travel reporter system processes the real-time data and the object type in order to determine that the object is associated with an abnormal travel event. The abnormal travel event has an event type which is processed by an event notification subsystem of the travel reporter system in order to select a first information consumer type. The event notification subsystem reports the abnormal travel event to information consumers having the first information consumer type.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09583000&OS=09583000&RS=09583000
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09583000
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160609
---
The present disclosure relates to data processing and more specifically to detecting and reporting abnormal travel events with a travel reporter system.

Stationary pole mounted video cameras are commonly used to monitor roadways in certain cities. When an accident or other adverse event occurs it may be possible to obtain video footage of the event in order to analyze the causes of the event. Furthermore these video cameras may be useful for monitoring traffic conditions and when necessary determining where traffic should be rerouted. On the other hand in some situations there may not be enough cameras or other sensors to provide adequate roadway monitoring and updates.

According to embodiments of the present disclosure aspects of the disclosure may include a vehicle implemented method for using a travel reporter system to report abnormal travel events. In some embodiments an electronic data sensor mounted on a vehicle obtains real time data about an object located within a predetermined distance of the vehicle. The object has an object type which is identified by processing the real time data with an object recognition subsystem of the travel reporter system. An event evaluation subsystem of the travel reporter system processes the real time data and the object type in order to determine that the object is associated with an abnormal travel event. The abnormal travel event has an event type which is processed by an event notification subsystem of the travel reporter system in order to select a first information consumer type. The event notification subsystem reports the abnormal travel event to information consumers having the first information consumer type.

According to embodiments of the present disclosure aspects of the disclosure may also include a travel reporter system for reporting abnormal travel events. In some embodiments the travel reporter system includes an electronic data sensor mounted on a vehicle and configured to obtain real time data about an object located within a predetermined distance of the vehicle. The travel reporter system also includes at least one computer that has a memory and a processor in communication with the memory. Also included in the computer is an object recognition subsystem an event evaluation subsystem and an event notification subsystem. The object recognition subsystem is configured to identify an object type of the object by processing the real time data. The event evaluation subsystem is configured to process the real time data and the object type in order to determine that the object is associated with an abnormal travel event. The event notification subsystem is configured to process an event type of the abnormal travel event in order to select a first information consumer type. The event notification subsystem is also configured to report the abnormal travel event to information consumers having the first information consumer type.

According to embodiments of the present disclosure aspects of the disclosure may also include a computer program product for reporting abnormal travel events. The computer program produce includes a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith. These program instructions are executable by a computer to cause the computer to perform a method. As part of the method real time data about an object located within a predetermined distance of a vehicle is obtained from an electronic data sensor mounted on a vehicle. An object type of the object is identified by processing the real time data. By processing the real time data and the object type a determination is made that the object is associated with an abnormal travel event. A first information consumer type is selected by processing an event type of the abnormal travel event. The abnormal travel event is reported to information consumers having the first information consumer type.

The above summary is not intended to describe each illustrated embodiment or every implementation of the present disclosure.

While the invention is amenable to various modifications and alternative forms specifics thereof have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail. It should be understood however that the intention is not to limit the invention to the particular embodiments described. On the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the invention.

Aspects of the present disclosure relate to data processing and more specifically to detecting and reporting abnormal travel events with a travel reporter system. While the present disclosure is not necessarily limited to such applications various aspects of the disclosure may be appreciated through a discussion of various examples using this context.

In some situations certain sensors such as vehicle mounted cameras may be useful in recording travel events as they occur. However these sensors may not be connected to systems that are configured to provide automatic real time analysis of the real time data that is captured by the sensors. Furthermore even in situations where a sensor is associated with a relatively simple event analysis system the system may not be configured to analyze detect and report a wide range of travel event types.

In some embodiments vehicle based travel event detecting and reporting systems e.g. travel reporter systems may be utilized to detect and analyze many different types of travel events using one or more sensors or other information sources to collect data that is important in event detection. Furthermore in some embodiments these systems may be configured to select which types of information consumers are to be notified about a given travel event and notify those information consumers accordingly. As described herein technologies utilized in these systems may include for example speed detection license plate detection obstacle isolation radar infrared ice or water detection temperature detection and vibration detection. In some embodiments portions or all of the devices that implement these technologies may be physically located on the vehicle that detects the real time data that these devices rely upon. Sources of real time data may be numerous and types of data may include for example geographic location data road sign data and other data.

In some embodiments travel reporter systems may be further configured to make determinations as to how when and to whom specific travel events should be reported. Without such determinations the default may be to report every travel event to every entity every time. This may create certain problems relating to information overload and habituation. In some embodiments these problems may be mitigated by limiting the travel events that are reported to only abnormal travel events and further by limiting the reporting of any given abnormal travel event to only those types of individual information consumers that are likely to have an interest in or a need know about that particular abnormal travel event. Abnormal travel events that may be of interest may include for example traffic violations weather updates and road condition updates. Furthermore abnormal travel events may in some embodiments be divided up into driving behavior related travel events e.g. parking offenses turning without signaling failing to yield right of way and road condition related travel events e.g. icy or snowy road surfaces obstacles in the roadway potholes .

In some embodiments a travel reporter system may be able to provide information consumers with a complete and timely view of information by managing multiple information sources. When in use information including images and video footage may be captured by electronic vehicle sensors and stored in travelling data recorders located on a vehicle. This data may then be processed by an object recognition subsystem of the travel reporter system and used to detect objects moving nearby relative to the vehicle in real time. After the objects are identified an event processing component of the travel reporter system may collect information about state changes of the objects analyze object and event features and detect abnormal occurrences by interacting with a rule engine or event criteria database. After events are identified an event notification subsystem of the travel reporter system may be used to classify unusual events in terms of different goals of different types of information consumers and report the results of the analysis to various information consumers. This classifying of events may mean that a particular information consumer may only be provided with reports that would be of interest to him. For example a driver of a vehicle a mile ahead of a travel reporter system on a roadway may not be interested in a pothole that the travel reporter system detected but a second driver of a second vehicle a mile behind the travel reporter system on the roadway may be interested to learn about the pothole.

In some embodiments an application programming interface API may be used to alert information consumers. For example an API may be used to alert drivers in surrounding cars about abnormal travel events and notify government agencies about other abnormal travel events. Further in some embodiments an API may be used to expose services for all interactions between the travel reporter system and third parties. This may require this API to handle such task as data transport and authentication.

In some embodiments a travel reporter system may support the acquisition of real time data from a comprehensive variety of sources. This data may then be analyzed and tailored event information may be reported via real time or near real time transmissions to interested and authorized information consumers. Furthermore with multiple vehicles having multiple travel reporters working in a synchronized manner a network of dynamic mobile sensors may be created which can deliver information about abnormal travel events in a way that is more timely and more accurate than using static sensors e.g. traditional post mounted road cameras alone. The result of such a network may be the ability to explore and expose a variety of information services about a variety of events to selected information consumers e.g. medical or police personnel .

Referring now to shown is a flowchart diagram of an example method for detecting and reporting abnormal travel events in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure. In some embodiments one or more operations of method may be performed by a vehicle having one or more onboard sensors and a computer such as computer shown in . Method may begin at operation wherein at least one sensor mounted on the vehicle e.g. a video camera radar a vibration sensor and an audio recorder is used to obtain e.g. detect real time data about an object located near the vehicle. In some embodiments the computer may be used to make a threshold determination as to whether an object is near a vehicle. Furthermore in some embodiments the determination as to whether the object is considered to be nearby the vehicle may be made based on the context. For example in some embodiments an object may be considered to be nearby the vehicle only if it is within a predetermined distance of the vehicle. This predetermined distance may vary based on certain factors such as the speed of the vehicle and the type of object. For example a pothole that is one hundred yards from a vehicle may be considered near the vehicle if the vehicle is traveling at a speed of seventy miles per hour but may not be considered near the vehicle if the vehicle is traveling at a speed of twenty five miles per hour. Furthermore in some embodiments an object may be considered near a vehicle only if it is within the range of the one or more sensors. Furthermore in some embodiments an object within a vehicle e.g. a person may be considered to be near the vehicle.

In some embodiments operations may be used by the computer to identify the object type of the object about which the real time data is collected. Specifically per operation the computer identifies object features from the real time data. These object features may include attributes which are significant for object recognition purposes such as distinguishing between objects having similar object types. Examples of object features may include shape size and color. Per operation the computer generates an object feature group from these object features. This object feature group may include a specific group of object features selected from among all of the object features identified in operation . The object feature group may be selected based on a determination that these particular object features likely relate to a specific object to which the other object features do not relate. This may involve for example separating the object features that are associated with background images or sounds from those object features that are more directly useful in recognizing the object of interest. Per operation the computer identifies the object type by matching the object feature group to an object model. The object model may be selected from a database used to store multiple object models of different types. Multiple object models may need to be analyzed before a match is found and the object type of the target object is identified.

In some embodiments operations may be used to identify a travel event associated with an object identified in operations . Per operation event features may be identified from the real time data collected by the at least one sensor. As used herein event features may refer to aspects or attributes of events e.g. occurrences that may be useful in detecting specific events event types and event severity. Event features in the same time frame may be logged categorized and aggregated in order to create broad compilations of event features that may be useful in detecting when an event occurs and the causes and results of the event. Examples of event features may include certain changes in object behaviors such as swerving or acceleration of vehicles. Per operation the computer may identify a specific travel event by processing the event features and the object type e.g. the object type identified in operation . In some embodiments the object type may weigh more or less heavily in identifying the travel event in particular for events that are often or always associated with a particular object. For example an event of swerving to avoid a pothole may always be associated with a pothole object type. Per operation the computer determines the event type of the travel event. For example for the event of swerving to avoid a pothole the event type may be hazard or hazard avoidance.

In some embodiments operations may be used to determine whether an identified travel event is abnormal and if the event is abnormal notifying the appropriate entities. Per operation the computer selects a set of i.e. one or more event criteria based on the event type of the travel event as determined in operation . The set of event criteria may be selected from among any number of possible event criteria. The set of event criteria may be useful in evaluating whether an identified travel event is an abnormal travel event which is worth reporting or a normal event which may be wasteful or unhelpful to report . In some embodiments the set of event criteria may include a set of rules and or a set of thresholds. For example in a threshold based embodiment a travel event may only be considered abnormal if some aspect of the event achieves a specific threshold. For example for a travel event of a speeding vehicle it may only be deemed an abnormal travel event if the speed of the speeding vehicle is at least five miles per hour over the speed limit. Furthermore in some embodiments historical norms such as averages and deviations may be utilized in determining whether a travel event is abnormal.

Per operation the real time data collected by the at least one vehicle sensor may be compared to the set of event criteria. Per operation a determination is made based on the comparison as to whether the travel event is an abnormal travel event. If the travel event is not deemed an abnormal travel event the method may be completed without the travel event being reported. If however per operation the travel event is determined to be an abnormal travel event then per operation a specific information consumer type may be selected based on the event type of the travel event. This operation may aid in ensuring that only those individual consumers that are likely to be interested in this particular travel event are provided information about the abnormal travel event. Per operation the abnormal travel event is reported to information consumers that have the information consumer type selected in operation . In some embodiments there may be several different information consumer types. These may include for example a surrounding vehicle information consumer type e.g. a type that includes vehicles within a predetermined distance of the vehicle performing method or a police authorities information consumer type. Furthermore each information consumer type may be associated with one or more event types. For example the surrounding vehicle information consumer type may be associated with a nearby hazard event type. Furthermore in some embodiments the information consumer type may be selected not only based on the event type of the traveling event but also based on the severity of the travel event. For example a small pothole might be reported to road repair authorities while a large pothole might be reported to both the road repair authorities and surrounding vehicles e.g. because the situation is more dangerous even though these information consumers may have different types.

While an example embodiment of method is described herein many other variants on method are contemplated. For example in some embodiments multiple objects having one or more object types may be identified in a single time frame. Once two or more objects are identified event features relating to both objects may be identified and used to identify one or more abnormal travel events. By combining information about multiple objects into a single analysis a more complete picture of a travel event may be identified. For example in a scenario where a vehicle swerves to avoid an overturned construction barrel it may be helpful to identify the object types of both the vehicle and the barrel in order to evaluate a single travel event e.g. a hazard in the travel lane travel event .

In another variant on method in some embodiments a travel reporter system may be configured for determining which object or objects is responsible for a particular travel event. This may be helpful in identifying and adequately reporting a travel event. For example in a scenario where a travel reporter system detects two cars swerving and a pothole between them the travel reporter system may determine that the pothole rather than the two vehicles is responsible for the travel event and report it accordingly.

In yet another variant on method in some embodiments one or more operations of method may rely not only on real time data about an object of interest but also on other types of data. These other types of data may be obtained from remote sources e.g. third party information sources that are not within the predetermined distance of the vehicle performing the method . Furthermore these types of data may include for example historical data and concurrent data as described elsewhere herein.

In yet another variant on method in some embodiments a travel reporter system may be further configured to detect and report abnormal travel events that are occurring within the vehicle performing the method . For example method could be used to detect a small child sitting in a passenger seat of the vehicle e.g. based on a weight sensor in the seat and the temperature within the vehicle. The travel reporter system may then determine that the temperature within the vehicle is too low or too high and report this to the relevant information consumer e.g. the driver of the vehicle .

Other variants on this in vehicle scenario are also possible. For example in some embodiments detecting a weight below a threshold or within a range in a passenger seat may cause the vehicle e.g. via the travel reporter system to automatically maintain the temperature of the vehicle within an acceptable range. Further in some embodiments the weight in the passenger seat may not trigger a temperature alert or other temperature control measures unless one or more other indicators are also present. Such an indicator could include for example a lack of weight or weight below a threshold on a driver s seat indicating that the driver is not in the vehicle . Such indicator could also include the vehicle being in park or neutral. Further in some embodiments the temperature alert in such a situation may take the form of a text message or other message to the absent driver or owner of the vehicle warning him about the presence of the adverse temperature event and the potential presence of a child or other type of person in the vehicle.

Referring now to shown is a block diagram of an example travel reporter system that may be used in detecting and reporting abnormal travel events in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure. In some embodiments the travel reporter system may be configured to receive information from one or more information sources analyze the received information and output the results of the analysis to one or more information consumers surrounding vehicles police authorities etc. . Information sources may include for example real time data collected from vehicle mounted sensors such as GPS data providing vehicle location vehicle speed etc. video image data e.g. providing road sign information and audio data. Other information sources may include historical data or concurrent data either collected previously by the vehicle mounted sensors or collected from some third party information source. More specifically historical data may include for example accident records or government agency reports and concurrent data may include for example weather reports or traffic reports from news agencies.

In some embodiments travel reporter system may be implemented using one or more computers such as computer of . Furthermore in some embodiments travel reporter system may be implemented in a cloud computing environment as described herein. For example certain databases or processing elements of the travel reporter system may be housed at a location remote from the vehicle that detects the real time data.

The travel reporter system may include an object recognition subsystem an event evaluation subsystem and an event notification subsystem . The object recognition subsystem may be configured to find and identify objects e.g. by object type in the real world environment near e.g. inside next to the vehicle. The object recognition subsystem may include an object extraction module an object representation module and an object matching module .

The object extraction module may be configured to identify object features in the real time data collected from the information sources . In some embodiments this identification may involve locating and recognizing arbitrary collections of image regions through partitioning one or more images or videos into meaningful segments. The object features as extracted from an image for example may be helpful for forming object hypotheses from large amounts of data and for achieving a simplified representation of an image that can be processed further.

The object representation module may group the object features identified by the object extraction module into meaningful collections such as object feature groups that are associated with a particular object. The object feature groups may be generated based on internal image descriptions e.g. abstract features vectors of known objects that are stored in an object model database . More specifically comparing object feature groups to object models e.g. known object descriptions stored in object model database may be useful in determining that one or more objects in an image are of particular object types. The object matching module may employ matching techniques to select the most likely object type as the correct object type for each identified object feature group.

In some embodiments the event evaluation subsystem may be configured to determine whether one or more objects identified by the object recognition subsystem are associated with an abnormal travel event. This may involve detecting meaningful and abnormal events by tracking and analyzing state changes e.g. movements of identified objects and deriving conclusions based on these state changes. The event evaluation subsystem may include an event monitoring module an event feature calculation module and an abnormal event recognition module .

The event monitoring module may be configured to identify a plurality of event features associated with the one or more objects identified by the object recognition subsystem . This may involve further processing of the data collected from the information sources . More specifically changes of the behaviors e.g. motion patterns of objects may be identified in the real time data and certain event features may be logged or recorded for further analysis.

The event feature calculation module may be configured to determine that the object is associated with a travel event having a particular event type by processing both the event features as identified by the event monitoring module and the object type as identified by the object recognition subsystem . This may involve categorizing and aggregating the event features into composite event occurrences e.g. travel events through analyzing the event features that are logged by the event monitoring module . The event type of the event may also be identified at the same time.

The abnormal event recognition module may be configured to determine whether a travel event identified by the event feature calculation module is an abnormal travel event. This may involve first determining a proper set of criteria for evaluating the travel event. The set of criteria may be selected based on the event type of the travel event from a pool of potential rules e.g. criteria stored in a rule database . The real time data and event features may then be compared to the set of criteria. Based on the comparison the abnormal event recognition module may determine whether the travel event is an abnormal travel event. A travel event may be deemed abnormal if it deviates significantly from normal occurrences of that type of event. Information about abnormal travel events may then be stored and information about travel events which are not abnormal may be filtered out and discarded.

In some embodiments the event notification subsystem may be configured to select an information consumer type based on the event type of the abnormal travel event identified by the event evaluation subsystem . The event notification subsystem may be further configured to report the abnormal travel event to information consumers having that selected information consumer type. The event notification subsystem may include an abnormal event classification module and an abnormal event exposure module .

The abnormal event classification module may be configured to classify abnormal travel events by information consumer types based on their event types and store information about the categorized abnormal travel events in an abnormal event database . The abnormal event classification module may also deliver reports about abnormal events to designated recipients such as the portion of information consumers having a given information consumer type . These reports may be delivered in any applicable form including for example email or text SMS message.

The abnormal event exposure module may be configured to expose the abnormal events stored in the abnormal event database as services to the appropriate information consumers . The abnormal event exposure module may be responsible for a variety of reporting related tasks such as authentication and data transport. In some embodiments the abnormal event exposure module may include or may be coupled to an API.

To aid understanding an example scenario of the travel reporter system being utilized is provided herein. In this scenario a first vehicle target vehicle traveling at an unsafe speed passes a second vehicle reporting vehicle on a highway. The reporting vehicle includes a travel reporter system . As the target vehicle moves within a detecting area e.g. predetermined distance or sensor range of the reporting vehicle a camera mounted on the reporting vehicle obtains footage or one or more images of the target vehicle. The object recognition subsystem analyzes the footage and identifies the target vehicle as having a vehicle object type. The event evaluation subsystem further processes the footage and determines that the target vehicle is responsible for a speeding event that is occurring. More specifically using the speed of the reporting vehicle as a base measurement the speed of the target vehicle is calculated. Road sign data is obtained and used to determine the current speed limit. By comparing the speed limit to the speed of the target vehicle the event evaluation subsystem determines that the target vehicle is exceeding the speed limit and a travel event of speeding and an event type of traffic violation are identified. The event evaluation subsystem then determines that speed of the target vehicle is above a predetermined amount greater than the speed limit and therefore the speeding travel event is an abnormal travel event. Based on the event type of traffic violation the event notification subsystem classifies the speeding event as being associated with the government authority information consumer type. The event notification subsystem then reports the speeding abnormal travel event to information consumers having the government agency information consumer type e.g. the report is sent to police officers .

It is understood in advance that although this disclosure includes a detailed description on cloud computing implementation of the teachings recited herein are not limited to a cloud computing environment. Rather embodiments of the present invention are capable of being implemented in conjunction with any other type of computing environment now known or later developed.

Cloud computing is a model of service delivery for enabling convenient on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks network bandwidth servers processing memory storage applications virtual machines and services that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or interaction with a provider of the service. This cloud model may include at least five characteristics at least three service models and at least four deployment models.

On demand self service a cloud consumer can unilaterally provision computing capabilities such as server time and network storage as needed automatically without requiring human interaction with the service s provider.

Broad network access capabilities are available over a network and accessed through standard mechanisms that promote use by heterogeneous thin or thick client platforms e.g. mobile phones laptops and PDAs .

Resource pooling the provider s computing resources are pooled to serve multiple consumers using a multi tenant model with different physical and virtual resources dynamically assigned and reassigned according to demand. There is a sense of location independence in that the consumer generally has no control or knowledge over the exact location of the provided resources but may be able to specify location at a higher level of abstraction e.g. country state or datacenter .

Rapid elasticity capabilities can be rapidly and elastically provisioned in some cases automatically to quickly scale out and rapidly released to quickly scale in. To the consumer the capabilities available for provisioning often appear to be unlimited and can be purchased in any quantity at any time.

Measured service cloud systems automatically control and optimize resource use by leveraging a metering capability at some level of abstraction appropriate to the type of service e.g. storage processing bandwidth and active user accounts . Resource usage can be monitored controlled and reported providing transparency for both the provider and consumer of the utilized service.

Software as a Service SaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to use the provider s applications running on a cloud infrastructure. The applications are accessible from various client devices through a thin client interface such as a web browser e.g. web based email . The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including network servers operating systems storage or even individual application capabilities with the possible exception of limited user specific application configuration settings.

Platform as a Service PaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to deploy onto the cloud infrastructure consumer created or acquired applications created using programming languages and tools supported by the provider. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including networks servers operating systems or storage but has control over the deployed applications and possibly application hosting environment configurations.

Infrastructure as a Service IaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to provision processing storage networks and other fundamental computing resources where the consumer is able to deploy and run arbitrary software which can include operating systems and applications. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure but has control over operating systems storage deployed applications and possibly limited control of select networking components e.g. host firewalls .

Private cloud the cloud infrastructure is operated solely for an organization. It may be managed by the organization or a third party and may exist on premises or off premises.

Community cloud the cloud infrastructure is shared by several organizations and supports a specific community that has shared concerns e.g. mission security requirements policy and compliance considerations . It may be managed by the organizations or a third party and may exist on premises or off premises.

Public cloud the cloud infrastructure is made available to the general public or a large industry group and is owned by an organization selling cloud services.

Hybrid cloud the cloud infrastructure is a composition of two or more clouds private community or public that remain unique entities but are bound together by standardized or proprietary technology that enables data and application portability e.g. cloud bursting for load balancing between clouds .

A cloud computing environment is service oriented with a focus on statelessness low coupling modularity and semantic interoperability. At the heart of cloud computing is an infrastructure comprising a network of interconnected nodes.

Referring now to a schematic of an example of a cloud computing node is shown. Cloud computing node is only one example of a suitable cloud computing node and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of embodiments of the invention described herein. Regardless cloud computing node is capable of being implemented and or performing any of the functionality set forth hereinabove.

In cloud computing node there is a computer system server which is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with computer system server include but are not limited to personal computer systems server computer systems thin clients thick clients hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputer systems mainframe computer systems and distributed cloud computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer system server may be described in the general context of computer system executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer system. Generally program modules may include routines programs objects components logic data structures and so on that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer system server may be practiced in distributed cloud computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed cloud computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer system storage media including memory storage devices.

As shown in computer system server in cloud computing node is shown in the form of a general purpose computing device. The components of computer system server may include but are not limited to one or more processors or processing units a system memory and a bus that couples various system components including system memory to processor .

Bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus.

Computer system server typically includes a variety of computer system readable media. Such media may be any available media that is accessible by computer system server and it includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media.

System memory can include computer system readable media in the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or cache memory . Computer system server may further include other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer system storage media. By way of example only storage system can be provided for reading from and writing to a non removable non volatile magnetic media not shown and typically called a hard drive . Although not shown a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable non volatile magnetic disk e.g. a floppy disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD ROM or other optical media can be provided. In such instances each can be connected to bus by one or more data media interfaces. As will be further depicted and described below memory may include at least one program product having a set e.g. at least one of program modules that are configured to carry out the functions of embodiments of the invention.

Program utility having a set at least one of program modules may be stored in memory by way of example and not limitation as well as an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data. Each of the operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data or some combination thereof may include an implementation of a networking environment. Program modules generally carry out the functions and or methodologies of embodiments of the invention as described herein.

Computer system server may also communicate with one or more external devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a display etc. one or more devices that enable a user to interact with computer system server and or any devices e.g. network card modem etc. that enable computer system server to communicate with one or more other computing devices. Such communication can occur via Input Output I O interfaces . Still yet computer system server can communicate with one or more networks such as a local area network LAN a general wide area network WAN and or a public network e.g. the Internet via network adapter . As depicted network adapter communicates with the other components of computer system server via bus . It should be understood that although not shown other hardware and or software components could be used in conjunction with computer system server . Examples include but are not limited to microcode device drivers redundant processing units external disk drive arrays RAID systems tape drives and data archival storage systems etc.

Referring now to illustrative cloud computing environment is depicted. As shown cloud computing environment comprises one or more cloud computing nodes with which local computing devices used by cloud consumers such as for example personal digital assistant PDA or cellular telephone A desktop computer B laptop computer C and or automobile computer system N may communicate. Nodes may communicate with one another. They may be grouped not shown physically or virtually in one or more networks such as Private Community Public or Hybrid clouds as described hereinabove or a combination thereof. This allows cloud computing environment to offer infrastructure platforms and or software as services for which a cloud consumer does not need to maintain resources on a local computing device. It is understood that the types of computing devices A N shown in are intended to be illustrative only and that computing nodes and cloud computing environment can communicate with any type of computerized device over any type of network and or network addressable connection e.g. using a web browser .

Referring now to a set of functional abstraction layers provided by cloud computing environment is shown. It should be understood in advance that the components layers and functions shown in are intended to be illustrative only and embodiments of the invention are not limited thereto. As depicted the following layers and corresponding functions are provided 

Hardware and software layer includes hardware and software components. Examples of hardware components include mainframes RISC Reduced Instruction Set Computer architecture based servers storage devices networks and networking components. In some embodiments software components include network application server software.

Virtualization layer provides an abstraction layer from which the following examples of virtual entities may be provided virtual servers virtual storage virtual networks including virtual private networks virtual applications and operating systems and virtual clients.

In one example management layer may provide the functions described below. Resource provisioning provides dynamic procurement of computing resources and other resources that are utilized to perform tasks within the cloud computing environment. Metering and Pricing provide cost tracking as resources are utilized within the cloud computing environment and billing or invoicing for consumption of these resources. In one example these resources may comprise application software licenses. Security provides identity verification for cloud consumers and tasks as well as protection for data and other resources. User portal provides access to the cloud computing environment for consumers and system administrators. Service level management provides cloud computing resource allocation and management such that required service levels are met. Service Level Agreement SLA planning and fulfillment provide pre arrangement for and procurement of cloud computing resources for which a future requirement is anticipated in accordance with an SLA.

Workloads layer provides examples of functionality for which the cloud computing environment may be utilized. Examples of workloads and functions which may be provided from this layer include mapping and navigation software development and lifecycle management virtual classroom education delivery data analytics processing transaction processing and mobile desktop.

In some embodiments one or more layers including workloads layer may provide for the detecting and reporting of abnormal travel events as described herein.

The present invention may be a system a method and or a computer program product. The computer program product may include a computer readable storage medium or media having computer readable program instructions thereon for causing a processor to carry out aspects of the present invention.

The computer readable storage medium can be a tangible device that can retain and store instructions for use by an instruction execution device. The computer readable storage medium may be for example but is not limited to an electronic storage device a magnetic storage device an optical storage device an electromagnetic storage device a semiconductor storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. A non exhaustive list of more specific examples of the computer readable storage medium includes the following a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a static random access memory SRAM a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disk DVD a memory stick a floppy disk a mechanically encoded device such as punch cards or raised structures in a groove having instructions recorded thereon and any suitable combination of the foregoing. A computer readable storage medium as used herein is not to be construed as being transitory signals per se such as radio waves or other freely propagating electromagnetic waves electromagnetic waves propagating through a waveguide or other transmission media e.g. light pulses passing through a fiber optic cable or electrical signals transmitted through a wire.

Computer readable program instructions described herein can be downloaded to respective computing processing devices from a computer readable storage medium or to an external computer or external storage device via a network for example the Internet a local area network a wide area network and or a wireless network. The network may comprise copper transmission cables optical transmission fibers wireless transmission routers firewalls switches gateway computers and or edge servers. A network adapter card or network interface in each computing processing device receives computer readable program instructions from the network and forwards the computer readable program instructions for storage in a computer readable storage medium within the respective computing processing device.

Computer readable program instructions for carrying out operations of the present invention may be assembler instructions instruction set architecture ISA instructions machine instructions machine dependent instructions microcode firmware instructions state setting data or either source code or object code written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The computer readable program instructions may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider . In some embodiments electronic circuitry including for example programmable logic circuitry field programmable gate arrays FPGA or programmable logic arrays PLA may execute the computer readable program instructions by utilizing state information of the computer readable program instructions to personalize the electronic circuitry in order to perform aspects of the present invention.

Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer readable program instructions.

These computer readable program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. These computer readable program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium that can direct a computer a programmable data processing apparatus and or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the computer readable storage medium having instructions stored therein comprises an article of manufacture including instructions which implement aspects of the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer readable program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other device to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device implement the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of instructions which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . In some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or carry out combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The descriptions of the various embodiments of the present disclosure have been presented for purposes of illustration but are not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the described embodiments. The terminology used herein was chosen to best explain the principles of the embodiments the practical application or technical improvement over technologies found in the marketplace or to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the embodiments disclosed herein.

