---

title: Managing interaction with hosted services
abstract: Systems and methods are disclosed which facilitate managing interaction with instances corresponding to hosted services. Customers may implement services on a hosted computing environment. Further, the customer may allow limited interaction with the hosted service to a third party (e.g., in connection with a secondary service). For example, the third party may interact with a temporary copy of the hosted service. Thereafter, the customer may, given the consent of the third party, view details of the third party's interaction with the copy, and may be enabled to merge any alterations with the initial hosted service. In addition, a customer may monitor their own interactions with a hosted service or copies of a hosted service, and view details of the differences between multiple versions of the hosted service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09451034&OS=09451034&RS=09451034
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09451034
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160205
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 429 225 entitled MANAGING INTERACTION WITH HOSTED SERVICES and filed Mar. 23 2012 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Generally described computing devices utilize a communication network or a series of communication networks to exchange data. Companies and organizations operate computer networks that interconnect a number of computing devices to support operations or provide services to third parties. The computing systems can be located in a single geographic location or located in multiple distinct geographic locations e.g. interconnected via private or public communication networks . Specifically data centers or data processing centers herein generally referred to as data centers may include a number of interconnected computing systems to provide computing resources to users of the data center. The data centers may be private data centers operated on behalf of an organization or public data centers operated on behalf or for the benefit of the general public.

To facilitate increased utilization of data center resources virtualization technologies allow a single physical computing device to host one or more instances of a virtual machine which virtual machine instance appears to a user of a data center as an independent computing device. With virtualization the host computing device can create maintain delete or otherwise manage virtual machines instances in a dynamic manner. In turn users can request computing resources from the data center including single computing devices or a configuration of networked computing devices and be provided with virtual machine instances that provide the requested computing resources.

An instance of a virtual machine may be configured to provide specific functionality. For example a virtual machine instance may be associated with different combinations of software applications and operating systems or operating system configurations to enable a virtual machine to provide different desired functionalities or to provide similar functionalities more efficiently. One or more virtual machine instance configurations are often contained within a service image which a host computing device may execute in order to implement the desired specific functionality of the virtual machine instance.

In one embodiment the service image when executed by virtual machine instance provides a network accessible service a.k.a. Web service corresponding to the software applications configurations included in the service image. A network accessible service provides specific functionality to other applications and computing resources via a network through application programming interfaces APIs which APIs can also be considered a network accessible service or Web service. For example a service image when executed may provide a network accessible database or mass storage service. Once a service image is created it can be provided to users interested in utilizing the applications and computing resources available from a data center for specific purposes. Interaction with a Web service may result in accessing creating modifying or deleting information maintained by the Web service.

In some instances additional services may be available which act to access or modify a Web service. For instance technical support services may be available to diagnose and repair Web services. Such technical support services may in some instance be provided by a third party that is otherwise unaffiliated with an operator of the web service. Additional services performed by such a third party may execute a number of operations on the Web service and may read create modify or delete information from the Web service.

Generally described aspects of the present disclosure relate to managing interaction with services available from an electronic hosted services marketplace. More specifically an electronic hosted services marketplace is provided that permits users to browse descriptions of services such as service images implementing desired functionalities or services. The service images may be submitted to and made available from the electronic hosted services marketplace by third party providers or may be submitted to the marketplace by the operator of the marketplace itself. In addition complimentary services may be offered by the electronic hosted services marketplace that are implemented on or require interaction with other services or service images. For example a technical support service may be offered which interacts with a previously acquired service or service image. As a further example design consultants may modify a customer s previously acquired services in accordance with the customer s wishes. The electronic hosted services marketplace may further enable a customer to manage interactions with the customer s services either by the customer or by a third party. For example the customer may monitor their interactions with or utilizations of a service in order to review a history of those interactions for recording purposes. As a further example the customer may monitor utilization of a service in order to maintain various versions of a service. Illustratively a customer may wish to test a modification to a service while maintaining the ability to remove or reject the modification in the future. Still further the electronic hosted services marketplace may enable a customer with the consent of an interacting third party to monitor interactions with the customer s instance. As such the customer may allow interaction with an instance while maintaining the ability to review accept or reject those interactions. Though monitoring of interactions with a service is discussed herein the present disclosure is not intended to indicate that monitoring would be performed without the consent of any monitored party or to imply that monitored information would be used by an electronic hosted services marketplace or another party without the express consent of a customer or an interacting party.

Accordingly a customer may purchase a service from the electronic hosted services marketplace and the service may thereafter be implemented on a hosted computing environment. In some embodiments the hosted computing environment may be maintained by the third party provider of a service. In other embodiments the hosted computing environment may be maintained or associated with the electronic hosted services marketplace. As discussed in greater detail below embodiments of the electronic hosted services marketplace may enable customers to monitor interaction with hosted services. In some embodiments interaction of the customer may be monitored such that the customer may review their previous interaction with a service. In other embodiments interaction by third parties such as those associated with another service may be monitored such that the customer can review the third parties actions. In still more embodiments a customer may be enabled to accept or deny any monitored interactions or to maintain separate instances of a hosted service such that interactions which have not been accepted do not effect the customer s executing hosted service. As will be discussed below monitoring of interaction may be facilitated by reviewing the actions taken by a party when interacting with a hosted service image. Monitoring of interactions may further be facilitated by viewing the differences in data associated with multiple instances of a hosted service. For example in some embodiments a party may interact with a copy of a hosted service instance rather than the original hosted service instance . Thereafter the customer may review the differences between data associated with the original hosted service instance and the copy of the hosted service instance. The customer may further be enabled to accept or deny the differences in data. For example acceptance of the differences in data may replace the original hosted service instance with the modified copy of the hosted service image. Rejection of the differences in data may delete the copy of the hosted service image.

Though generally referred to herein with respect to service images services available via the electronic hosted services marketplace may in some embodiments be implemented without use of a service image. For example the electronic hosted services marketplace may include services providing access to applications or data sets either of which may or may not be associated with a service image. In addition the electronic hosted services marketplace may provide access to either partially or wholly human provided services. Illustratively such human provided services may correspond to customer services or to technical support services. As such though reference to service images may be made below the current disclosure should not be limited to facilitating transfer of licenses related to service images but may encompass facilitating transfer of licenses related to any service available from and provided by an electronic hosted services marketplace.

Embodiments discussed below may refer to the users of an electronic hosted services marketplace for service images as customers. However it may be understood that users are not limited to customers but may include owners administrators end users and providers of service images purchased from the electronic hosted services marketplace.

Embodiments of an electronic hosted services marketplace which may offer service images for acquisition may be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 248 227 filed on Sep. 29 2011 and entitled ELECTRONIC HOSTED SERVICES MARKETPLACE FOR HOSTED SERVICE IMAGES the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference the 227 Application . In brief the electronic hosted services marketplace may provide an environment with which both providers and customers of service images can interact via a network. In one embodiment a provider may submit a service image to the electronic hosted services marketplace for inclusion in an electronic catalog. The provider may submit additional information corresponding to the service image that would be useful to a customer such as pricing information usage conditions a location of a provider hosted computing environment on which the service image can be hosted or other information.

Customers may employ a user computing device to browse the electronic catalog by interaction with various user interfaces generated by the electronic hosted services marketplace described in greater detail below. On identifying a service image of interest the customer may view details of each service image in the electronic catalog such as the information submitted by the provider of the service image. In some embodiments a customer may view further information associated with a service image such as usage statistics by other marketplace customers of the service image reviews by other customers or recommendations for similar or complementary service images. Accordingly service images may be surfaced to customers in a variety of ways by the services marketplace such as by navigation through a browse tree of services organized by function type size etc. or through recommendations reviews etc.

Once a customer selects a service image the customer may purchase or otherwise acquire the service image from the services marketplace. In some embodiments the customer may be required to submit payment information for the service image prior to launch of the service image. After acquisition of the service image by the customer the service image may be launched and executed by one or more hosted computing environments. The hosted computing environment may be provided by an operator of the services marketplace or may be otherwise associated with the services marketplace. In some embodiments the third party provider of the acquired service image may provide a hosted computing environment for the service image acquired by the customer via the services marketplace.

Once a service image is launched and running on a hosted computing environment the services marketplace can monitor the usage of functionality or services provided by service image and bill the customer pay the provider accordingly. Moreover the services marketplace may provide the customer with tools to manage monitor modify etc. the service image.

In according with embodiments of the present disclosure customers of the electronic hosted services marketplace may given the consent of a customer or other affected party enable the customer to monitor utilization of services or service images hosted on a hosted computing environment. Such monitoring may be desired for instance where interaction with a hosted service is not limited solely to the acquiring customer. For example as will be described in more detail below services made available by the electronic hosted services marketplace may include to partially or wholly human provided services in addition to other services. In some instances these human provided services may be complimentary to other provided services. For example complimentary services may operate to alter or interact with other hosted services. Illustratively the electronic hosted services marketplace may offer service images including software applications and may also offer technical support services for those software applications. As such if a customer purchases such technical support services the customer may desire to monitor how a technical support worker interacts with or utilizes the software application. Further a customer may wish to verify such interactions prior to implementing the interactions on the hosted service. In some instances a customer may wish to reject such interactions and thereby leave a software application unaltered by a technical support worker. Though discussed above with respect to human provided services available from the electronic hosted services marketplace in some instances customers may desire to monitor interaction with additional parties. For example a customer may allow public or semi public access to a hosted service subject to monitoring of interaction. In still more instances a customer may desire to monitor their own interaction with a hosted service. For example a customer may wish to review a history of previous utilizations for logging purposes. As a further example customers may desire to test certain interactions without modifying a running service. As such though generally described herein with reference to a human provided service any interaction with a hosted service may be monitored without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus in accordance with the present disclosure any interaction with a customer s hosted service may with the consent of an interacting party be managed by the customer.

In some embodiments in order to promote monitoring of hosted services multiple instances of a service may be implemented within a hosted computing environment. Generally speaking an instance of a service refers to a computing device which has executed loaded or launched a service. Multiple instances may facilitate monitoring of interaction for example by allowing interactions to occur on a copy of an executing service. For example the electronic hosted services marketplace may implement an instance of a service on behalf of a customer. Thereafter the customer may wish to allow a third party such as a party associated with a complimentary service to interact with the instance of the service. However the customer may desire to maintain the ability to accept or reject any changes to the instance made by the third party. As such the electronic hosted services marketplace may execute a second instance replicating the original instance. The third party may then interact with the second instance. Thereafter the customer may review the interaction by the third party with the second instance. If the interaction is acceptable the customer may elect to replace the original instance of the service with the modified second instance. In some embodiments a customer may be enabled to maintain multiple replica instances of a service. Such multiple replicas may be desirable for example where a customer desires to test multiple interactions with a service prior to accepting those interactions. Illustratively each replica may correspond to an experimental change to an executing instance.

In addition in some embodiments the electronic hosted services marketplace may be configured to track interaction with a single instance of a service and to maintain state data of the instance at various periods. For example in some embodiments a customer may elect to mark a point at which data corresponding to the instance is recorded. As such the customer may be enabled at a future point in time to return the service to the state corresponding to the recorded data. For example a customer may elect to record data corresponding to an instance prior to allowing a third party to interact with the instance. Subsequent to such interaction the customer may elect to return the instance to the state corresponding to the recorded data.

In some embodiments customers may be enabled to monitor interaction with an instance of a hosted service by viewing a listing of actions taken on the hosted service over a specified time period. Illustratively a customer may desire to review all interaction with an instance of a hosted service by a specified third party. In order to facilitate such review the electronic hosted services marketplace may be configured to monitor the actions of the third party with respect to the instance. Monitored actions may include for example commands executed on a service or information retrieved from a service. In some embodiments actions may by monitored based on textual input to a service interaction with a service via a pointing device or other input device. In still more embodiments actions may be monitored based on output of the instance such as display output. Thereafter the customer may be enabled to review these interactions. For example the customer may be enabled to view each command typed by a third party with respect to the service instance. As a further example the customer may be enabled to review the files or data viewed by the third party while interacting with the instance. Such review may be beneficial for example in order to verify that the third party did not access private or confidential information of the customer. In some embodiments such a review may be helpful to allow the customer to learn from the interactions by the third party. For example where a third party is affiliated with a technical support service the customer may review the actions of the technical support service in order to discover how corrections to a service instance were made.

In some instances it may be unnecessary or undesirable for a customer to view in detail each interaction with an instance by a third party. For example a customer may be overwhelmed with a history of every command typed or every mouse path or click of a third party. As a further example a third party may desire to abstract their utilizations somewhat. Illustratively if the third party is associated with an optimization service the interactions of the third party in order to optimize an instance may be protected or proprietary information. As such in some embodiments the electronic hosted services marketplace may be configured to abstract obscure or filter monitored interactions. For example a customer may be enabled to select types of interaction to view or to select types of interaction to exclude. Illustratively the customer may desire to see a listing of all data read or modified but may not desire to see a listing of all entered commands. In addition in situations where the details of interaction should be obscured the customer may be enabled to view which data has been read or modified but may not be enabled to view the specific modifications to the data. Though examples of abstraction and filtering are given herein the abstraction obscuring and filtering of information may include displaying various specificities of information according to the desires of the customer and of the third party.

As described above in some embodiments the use of multiple instances may further facilitate monitoring of interaction. For example a third party may be enabled to interact with a replica of the customer s original instance. Thereafter the customer may review the interactions by the third party with the replica instance. The customer may further be enabled to accept the interactions of the third party and thereby integrate the interactions within the original instance. Similarly the customer may be enabled to reject the interaction so the third party and thereby delete the replica instance. As such the customer may allow third parties to interact with an instance with minimized risk that the instance will be damaged.

In some embodiments customers may be enabled to view changes in data associated with a hosted service that resulted from an interaction. For example the electronic hosted services marketplace may determine a first set of data reflective of all or a portion of a hosted service instance prior to an interaction with the instance. Illustratively a set of data may be reflective of a file system of a service such as a service image. As a further example a set of data may be reflective of the data contained within a database of information. Similarly the electronic hosted services marketplace may determine a second set of data reflective of the same portion of the hosted service subsequent to interaction with the hosted service. Accordingly the electronic hosted services marketplace may compare the first set of data with the second set of data to determine any changes which occurred based on the interaction. Illustratively a customer may wish to allow an optimization service to interact with a database instance. In addition the customer may elect to record the state of the database instance prior to allowing such interaction. Subsequent to interaction with the database by the optimization service the customer may then wish to verify any modifications to the database by the optimization service. By comparing the data within the database both before and after the interaction the customer may be enabled to view each item of data which was created modified or deleted by the optimization service. As described above the customer may be enabled to accept or reject the changes made by an interaction. As will be discussed in more detail below in some embodiments the customer may be enabled to accept or reject changes made to individual items of data. For example the customer may be enabled to allow deletion of a first item of data in a database but to deny creation of a second item of data.

The simplified examples described above are intended to convey some but not all potential embodiments and applications of the present disclosure. Though described above with respect to third party interactions in some embodiments a customer may be enabled to monitor any interactions with an instance of a hosted service including interactions by the customer. For example a customer may be enabled to review their own interactions in order to maintain a log of interactions. As a further example a customer may be enabled to maintain records of data associated with an instance at multiple points in time such that previous versions of an instance may be recreated. As such the present disclosure should not be limited to managing interactions with third parties but may encompass management of any interactions with an instance of a hosted service.

With reference to an illustrative operating environment is shown which includes an electronic hosted services marketplace that enables customers to browse descriptions of services available from the electronic hosted services marketplace and acquire such services. Acquired services may be implemented within a hosted computing environment as discussed in greater detail below. In some embodiments as will be discussed below services may be offered on the electronic hosted services marketplace that interact with other acquired services. For instance technical support services may be offered which require interaction of a third party with a software service or with a service image. The electronic hosted services marketplace may further enable customers to review interactions with hosted services acquired from the electronic hosted services marketplace such as interactions by the customer or interactions by third parties.

As illustrated in the operating environment includes one or more provider computing devices and one or more customer computing devices in communication with an electronic hosted services marketplace via a network . A third party provider using a provider computing device may submit via the network a service or service image implementing a service to the electronic hosted services marketplace . The electronic hosted services marketplace may make the submitted service as well as other services or service images implementing services available to customers.

Accordingly a customer using his or her customer computing device may communicate with the electronic hosted services marketplace regarding services made available by the electronic hosted services marketplace . In one embodiment a customer may communicate with the electronic hosted services marketplace in order to browse descriptions of services made available by the electronic hosted services marketplace including the availability of licenses corresponding with the service and any terms of such licenses. In another embodiment a customer may communicate with the electronic hosted services marketplace in order to acquire a desired service. In a further embodiment a customer may communicate with the electronic hosted services marketplace in order to launch an acquired service. Launching of a service may occur within a marketplace hosted computing environment operated maintained provided or otherwise associated with the operator of the electronic hosted services marketplace . In alternative embodiments where an acquired service was submitted to the electronic hosted services marketplace by a third party provider the acquired service may be launched in a provider hosted computing environment that is operated maintained provided or otherwise associated with the third party provider.

A hosted computing environment e.g. marketplace hosted computing environment or provider hosted computing environment may include a collection of rapidly provisioned and released computing resources hosted in connection with the marketplace or a third party provider. Such computing resources may be referred to individually as host computing devices. The computing resources may further include a number of computing networking and storage devices in communication with one another. In some embodiments the computing devices may correspond to physical computing devices. In other embodiments the computing devices may correspond to virtual machine instances implemented by one or more physical computing devices. In still other embodiments computing devices may correspond to both virtual computing devices and physical computing devices. One example of a hosted computing environment is given in U.S. Pat. No. 7 865 586 entitled Configuring Communications Between Computing Nodes and issued Jan. 4 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. A hosted computing environment may also be referred to as a cloud computing environment.

Though described herein with reference to hosted computing environments associated with a provider of a service and with the electronic hosted services marketplace in some embodiments additional hosted computing environments may be utilized. For example a customer computing device may provide a customer hosted computing environment not shown or a third party may provide a third party hosted computing environment not shown . Any or all of these additional hosted computing environments may be accessible to the electronic hosted services marketplace and may be utilized to host services available from the electronic hosted services marketplace . For purposes of brevity such additional hosted computing environments may also be referred to herein as provider hosted computing environments.

The provider computing devices and the customer computing devices may communicate with the electronic hosted services marketplace via a network . The provider computing device or customer computing device may be any computing device such as personal computer PC kiosk thin client home computer and dedicated or embedded machine. Further examples may include a laptop or tablet computers servers personal digital assistant PDA hybrid PDA mobile phones mobile phones electronic book readers set top boxes cameras digital media players and the like.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the network may be any wired network wireless network or combination thereof. In addition the network may be a personal area network local area network wide area network cable network satellite network cellular telephone network or combination thereof. In the illustrated embodiment the network is the Internet. Protocols and components for communicating via the Internet or any of the other aforementioned types of communication networks are well known to those skilled in the art of computer communications and thus need not be described in more detail herein.

The electronic hosted services marketplace is illustrated in as operating in a distributed computing environment comprising several computer systems that are interconnected using one or more networks. More specifically the electronic hosted services marketplace may include a marketplace server a usage monitoring server an electronic catalog a billing server and an authentication server discussed in greater detail below. However it may be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the electronic hosted services marketplace may have fewer or greater components than are illustrated in . In addition the electronic hosted services marketplace could include various Web services and or peer to peer network configurations. Thus the depiction of the electronic hosted services marketplace in should be taken as illustrative and not limiting to the present disclosure.

Any one or more of the marketplace server the usage monitoring server the electronic catalog the billing server and the authentication server may be embodied in a plurality of components each executing an instance of the respective marketplace server usage monitoring server electronic catalog billing server and authentication server . A server or other computing component implementing any one of the marketplace server the usage monitoring server the electronic catalog the billing server and the authentication server may include a network interface memory processing unit and computer readable medium drive all of which may communicate which each other may way of a communication bus. The network interface may provide connectivity over the network and or other networks or computer systems. The processing unit may communicate to and from memory containing program instructions that the processing unit executes in order to operate the respective marketplace server usage monitoring server electronic catalog billing server and authentication server . The memory may generally include RAM ROM other persistent and auxiliary memory and or any non transitory computer readable media.

With further reference to illustrative components of the electronic hosted services marketplace will now be discussed. The marketplace server may facilitate network submission by third party providers and browsing and acquisition by customers of service images in the electronic hosted services marketplace . Accordingly a provider utilizing a provider computing device may submit one or more services e.g. in the form of a service image to the electronic hosted services marketplace via the marketplace server . The submitted services may then be included in an electronic catalog . The process by which a provider utilizing a provider computing device submits a service to the electronic hosted services marketplace is described in greater detail in the 227 Application.

The electronic catalog may include information on services available from a plurality of providers and on services made available by the operator of the electronic hosted services marketplace . Accordingly the marketplace server may obtain service information for services offered by a plurality of providers and the marketplace and make information regarding the services available to a customer from a single network resource such as a Web site. A customer may then acquire a service from the electronic hosted services marketplace and launch the service on a hosted computing environment e.g. the marketplace hosted computing environment or the provider hosted computing environment in a single interaction or order placed with the electronic hosted services marketplace . Beneficially this eliminates the need for the customer to develop his or her own service or research search or otherwise investigate multiple different providers or other sources for the service.

Illustratively marketplace server may generate one or more user interfaces through which a customer utilizing a customer computing device may browse services made available by the electronic hosted services marketplace submit queries for matching services view information and details regarding specific services acquire services implement the services on a hosted computing environment and review interactions with hosted services. An illustrative process by which a customer computing device may query the electronic hosted services marketplace and by which the marketplace server generates a user interface is described in more detail in the 227 Application incorporated by reference above.

After the customer selects a desired service from the electronic hosted services marketplace the marketplace server may facilitate the acquisition of the service as well as configuration the service. The marketplace server may further facilitate the launching of the service image on a hosted computing environment. In this regard the marketplace server may receive payment information from the customer computing device as well as information specifying how the service should be implemented by a hosted computing environment. In some embodiments the customer may select a specific hosted computing environment to host the selected service. The specific hosted computing environment may correspond for example to the marketplace hosted computing environment associated with the electronic hosted services marketplace or to a provider hosted computing environment which is associated with the provider of the service.

Once the service is launched and running on a hosted computing environment the electronic hosted services marketplace may facilitate interaction with the service via the authentication server . Illustratively the authentication server may be configured to authenticate access to the hosted service. In some embodiments all access to the service may be facilitated by the authentication server . In other embodiments the authentication server may facilitate access to the service by third parties while the customer may be enabled to directly access the service. Further each party accessing a service via the authentication server may be enabled to utilize different authentication criteria such as different passwords. As such use of an authentication server may enable a customer to allow access to a service to various parties without disclosing the customer s authentication information. Further use of an authentication server may enable a customer to allow access to a service under conditions specified by the customer. For example a customer may enable a third party to access the hosted service only for a set duration of time. As such the authentication server may be configured to enable the third party to access the hosted service only for the specified duration. The authentication server may be configured to restrict access to the hosted service according to a variety of conditions. Such conditions include but are not limited to timing of access duration of access and identity of the accessing party. One skilled in the art will appreciate that various additional conditions for access may be enforced by the authentication server .

In some embodiments the authentication server may act as a proxy for access to a hosted service. For example the authentication server may receive commands from an interacting computing device e.g. a customer computing device and forward those commands to the service executing on a hosted computing environment e.g. the marketplace hosted computing environment . Further the authentication server may receive a response from the hosted service and forward the response to the interacting computing device. As such all interactions with the hosted service may pass through the authentication server . Further in some embodiments the authentication server may interact with the usage monitoring server to monitor access to a hosted service. Accordingly the marketplace hosted computing environment may not be required to interact with the usage monitoring server directly. In other embodiments the authentication server may act as an initial authentication with the hosted service but may not require all interaction to pass through the authentication server . For example an interacting computing device may be required to initially authenticate with the authentication server and may thereafter directly interact with a hosted service.

In addition the electronic hosted services marketplace can monitor the usage of the service or service image implementing a service and bill the customer pay the provider accordingly via the usage monitoring server and the billing server respectively. Moreover the electronic hosted services marketplace may provide the customer with tools to manage monitor modify etc. the service or service image implementing the service. Specifically in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure the electronic hosted services marketplace may provide customers with tools to manage interactions with and utilization of instances of services or service images. As such a customer may be enabled to review a history of interactions with a service by a third party or by the customer themselves. For example the customer may be able to view specific commands or operations performed on an instance or may be able to view the differences in data corresponding to two versions of a service e.g. a first version prior to a monitored interaction and a second version after a monitored interaction . As will be described in more detail below in some embodiments multiple instances of a service may facilitate such interaction management. For example a customer may allow a third party to interact with a service by enabling interaction with a replica of the customer s instance implementing the service. Such interaction may be facilitated for example by the authentication server as described above. By use of such replicated instances the customer s initial instance would be maintained. Thereafter the customer may accept or reject reviewed interactions by the third party. For example where the customer accepts the interactions by the third party the customer s initial instance may be replaced with the replica instance which the third party interacted with . If the customer rejects the third party s interactions the replica instance may be deleted maintaining the customer s initial instance. Moreover the monitored interactions may be used for accurate billing of third party services. For example where a third party service is billed according to the time spend interacting with an instance or according to the specific interaction with an instance the electronic hosted services marketplace may facilitate that billing based on the monitored interaction without requiring the third party service to provide such information. As a further illustrative example electronic hosted services marketplace may enable a customer to monitor their own interaction with a service or an instance of a service. As such the customer may maintain multiple versions of a service and be enabled to accept or reject interactions with versions without modifying an initial instance as will be described in more detail below.

The billing server is provided to process payments from customers and in some embodiments provide payment to the providers of acquired services. The billing server may receive and provide payment information via interaction with the marketplace server . In some embodiments the billing server may alternatively receive and provide payment information via other processes such as via an additional server via telephonic interaction or other mechanisms.

As described above in some embodiments the electronic hosted services marketplace may provide a variety of services such as access to software applications data sets or either partially or wholly human provided services. As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the illustrative components of may enable the electronic service marketplace to provide any one or more of these services.

As shown in the user interface provides information retrieved from the electronic hosted services marketplace i.e. a Hosted Web Service Catalog to Chris Customer an illustrative customer accessing the Hosted Web Services Catalog. Because the customer is viewing details regarding a specific offered service and may wish to browse to other services navigation pane is displayed. Navigation pane contains links that enable a customer to browse and select other services available via the electronic hosted services marketplace . Currently the user interface depicts information for the service image Paul s Database which corresponds to a database service uploaded by a service provider. Additional information regarding uploading or providing services are described in more detail in the 227 Application.

Display features display information corresponding to the service image. Display feature for example is a graphic associated with the service image. The graphic may correspond to a logo associated with the service image or with the service provider. Display features and depict the name of the service image and the provider of the service image respectively. Display feature depicts pricing information associated with the service image. Display feature depicts reviews given to the service image by users of the Hosted Web Services Catalog. As depicted display feature reflects that Paul s Database has been given on average a three star rating by users of the Hosted Web Services Catalog. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art various other methods of displaying a rating of a service image may be employed. Display feature depicts a version number of the service image in the current example version 1.0. In some embodiments display feature may be selectable to view alternative versions of the selected service image that are available. This may be desirable for example where previous versions have different desired characteristics such as different pricings features compatibility or ratings.

Input box may be utilized by the customer to specify a number of instances of the selected service that the customer desires. As described above an instance may generally refer to an execution loading or launching of the service image by a computing device e.g. a virtual or physical computing device . A customer may wish to acquire multiple instances for example where the customer wishes to distribute processing or load access across multiple instances. In other examples multiple instances may be functional to interact or to provide different functionality via the same service. The number of instances specified by input box may optionally be associated with a default value such that the customer is not required to select a number of instances.

After inputting the desired number of instances if necessary the customer may activate input control to further configure and launch the viewed service image. One example of a user interface used to further configure and launch a service image is discussed in detail in the 227 Application.

Though not displayed herein the user interface may display additional information regarding a service such as similar services or configuration options of a service. Examples of additional information are described in more detail in the 227 Application.

With reference to an illustrative user interface is displayed that presents information associated with an additional service available via the electronic hosted services marketplace . In one embodiment user interface is generated by marketplace server as a result of navigation by the customer e.g. by interaction with navigation panel of or as a result of selection of a search result returned by the marketplace server .

Similarly to as described above with reference to the user interface provides information retrieved from the electronic hosted services marketplace i.e. a Hosted Web Service Catalog to Chris Customer an illustrative customer accessing the Hosted Web Services Catalog. As depicted in the user interface depicts information for the service Database Optimization which corresponds to a service which may be acquired by customers in order to optimize an instance of the Paul s Database service image discussed in . As such in this illustrative embodiment acquisition of the Database Optimization service may require previous acquisition of the Paul s Database service. Further acquisition of the Database Optimization service may enable third parties associated with the Database Optimization service to access a customer s instance of Paul s Database in order to perform optimizations. As such the Database Optimization service may be seen as a complementary service to the Paul s Database service. One skilled in the art will appreciate that such an optimization service is only one example of complementary services which may be offered via an electronic hosted services marketplace.

Display features display information corresponding to the Database Optimization service. Display feature for example is a graphic associated with the service which may correspond to a logo associated with the service or with the service provider. Display features and depict the name of the service and the provider of the service respectively. Display feature depicts pricing information associated with the service. Though in this illustrative embodiment an hourly fee is displayed one skilled in the art will appreciate that services may be associated with any number of various fee structures. For example services may be associated with a single flat fee or associated with a fee based on the specific services provided. Where a complimentary service requires interaction with a customer s instance of another service or service image monitoring of the complimentary services interaction with the instance may facilitate more accurate billing of fees associated with the complimentary service. With continued reference to display feature depicts reviews given to the service image by users of the Hosted Web Services Catalog. As depicted display feature reflects that Database Optimization has been given on average a four star rating by users of the Hosted Web Services Catalog. Display feature depicts a dependency of the Database Optimization service. Specifically in this illustrative example the Database Optimization service is a complementary service to the Paul s Database service of . As such the Database Optimization service operates to modify or configure an instance of the Paul s Database service and therefore requires an acquiring customer to have previously acquired or concurrently acquire the Paul s Database service.

Input box may be utilized by the customer to specify an instance of a previously acquired service on which the Database Optimization service should be implemented. As displayed in Chris Customer would like the Database Optimization service to be implemented on a previously acquired instance of Paul s Database entitled My Paul s DB Instance. Accordingly as will be discussed in more detail below with respect to after acquisition of the Database Optimization service a third party associated with the Database Optimization service may access the customer s instance e.g. My Paul s DB Instance to carry out an optimization. As will also be discussed in more detail below the customer may in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure monitor the third party s interaction with the instance. Further the customer may be enabled to accept or reject the third party s interaction such that the customers instance e.g. My Paul s DB Instance is not modified without the review and consent of the customer.

After specifying the instance on which a service should be implemented the customer may activate input control to further configure and launch the viewed service image. One example of a user interface used to further configure and launch a service image is discussed in detail in the 227 Application.

Though not displayed herein the user interface may display additional information regarding a service such as similar services or configuration options of a service. Examples of additional information are described in more detail in the 227 Application.

After receiving the request to acquire a service the marketplace server may in some embodiments transmit a command to the marketplace hosted computing environment to launch a replica of the customer s original instance. For example the marketplace server may transmit a command to replicate the customer s currently running instance of Paul s Database. As described above such a replica instance may be desirably in order to avoid enabling the provider to alter a customer s running instance prior to the customer s review and approval of the provider s interactions. Though described herein with respect to a single replica instance in some embodiments the marketplace hosted computing environment may maintain multiple replicas of a given service instance on behalf of a customer. Illustratively this may allow the customer to review and accept multiple interactions by multiple third parties. These replica instances may be associated with additional or alternative authentication information when compared with the customer s original instance. For example these replica instances may modify authentication information such that the provider computing device is allowed access to a replica instance while otherwise being denied access to the original instance. In some embodiments the replica instance may be accessible only to the provider computing device . Such modification of authentication information may enable the provider computing device to access a replica of the customers instance e.g. in order to provide the advertised service while maintaining the customer s security with respect to the original instance. In still more embodiments replica instances may be associated with time periods of use. For example a replica instance may only be made available for a specified during after creation. Illustratively this may prevent abuse of the replica instance and may ensure that the service associated with the provider is completed in a timely manner. In some embodiments the replicated service may be halted after expiration of the specified time period. In some embodiments this authentication information may be stored by and enforced by the marketplace hosted computing environment . In other embodiments authentication information may be stored and enforced by the authentication server as will be described below. In still more embodiments other components not shown may store or enforce such authentication information such as other components of the electronic hosted services marketplace of .

In some embodiments replica instances for each interaction may not be desirable or feasible to implement. For example the computing resources associated with multiple instances may be larger than desirable. In these instances the interaction of 2 may be omitted. In these embodiments the marketplace server may in some instances transmit a command to the marketplace hosted computing environment to record a state of a customer s instance. Such a recording may allow for example comparison of data differences between the recorded state and the state of an instance post interaction by a third party. In these embodiments the marketplace server may transmit commands to the marketplace hosted computing environment which modify authentication procedures of the customer s instance. For example the marketplace server may transmit commands that enable the provider computing device to access the customer s service instance while maintaining the customer s personal authentication information. As described above in other embodiments the authentication server may implement these authentication procedures.

At 3 the marketplace server may transmit a confirmation of the customer s acquisition to the customer computing device . Illustratively such a confirmation may include information regarding the launching of a replica instance of a customer s service instance or additional information regarding the provider computing device such as the provider s method of access timeframe for completion of work contact information etc.

At 3 the marketplace server may transmit a service request corresponding to the acquired service to the provider computing device . Such a service request may include any information required by the provider to implement the required service. For example the request may include the authentication information that enables the provider computing device to access the targeted instance on the marketplace hosted computing environment e.g. a replica instance or the customer s original instance . Though the interaction of 3 is discussed herein subsequently to 3 these interactions may take place in any order or may occur simultaneously or substantially simultaneously.

After receiving the transmitted service request the provider computing device may at 4 authenticate with the authentication server in order to access the target instance. For the purposes of this illustrative interaction the target instance may correspond to a replica of the customer s initial instance. As described above the authentication server may be configured to enforce authentication requirements associated with access to the service instance. For example the authentication server may require the identity of the provider computing device to be verified e.g. by entering a username and or password . Further the authentication server may enforce timing restrictions on access to the service instance. For example the provider computing device may only be allowed to access the service instance within a certain time period or time periods e.g. times of day a range of dates etc. or for specified durations e.g. no more than a given amount of time . As such the authentication server may receive any necessary information from the provider computing device and authenticate the provider computing device for access to the customer s service instance.

At 5 the provider computing device may via the authentication server interact with the replica instance in order to provide the customer s acquired service. As described above in some embodiments the authentication server may function as a proxy for access to a customer s instance. In this illustrative example the provider computing device may transmit commands to the authentication server which may then forward those commands to the customer s instance implemented on the marketplace hosted computing environment . The authentication server may thereafter transmit any response from the customer s instance to the provider computing device . Though not displayed in in other embodiments the provider computing device may be enabled to directly interact with the marketplace hosted computing environment in order to access a customer s instance. In these embodiments the provider computing device may be required to first authenticate with the authentication server as described above. By interaction with the authentication server the provider computing device may interact with the customer s hosted service instance. For example in this illustrative interaction the provider computing device may execute commands or operations on the replica instance in order to optimize the instance on behalf of the customer. One skilled in the art will appreciate that these interactions may correspond to any interactions necessary to provide the acquired service.

At 6 the marketplace hosted computing environment may transmit information corresponding to the provider computing device s utilization of the service to the usage monitoring server . In some embodiments the marketplace hosted computing environment may be configured to transmit information corresponding to utilization in real time or substantially real time. For example each interaction by the provider computing device may be transmitted to the usage monitoring server as it is received. In other embodiments the marketplace hosted computing environment may be configured to monitor interactions with the provider computing device and transmit information concerning the interactions at set intervals e.g. every X seconds after completion of an interaction or according to various additional schedules.

Though not shown in the marketplace hosting computing environment may further be configured to halt the replicated instance subsequent given specified conditions. For example the replicated instance may be halted subsequent to the customer approving the interactions by the provider computing device. As a further example the replicated instance may be halted subsequent to elapsing of a time period. Illustratively a provider may be given 2 weeks during which to complete the acquired service. Should the provider fail to complete the service within this time period the replicated instance may be halted. In such embodiments a customer may be entitled to a refund of any purchase price of the acquired service or additional compensation.

With reference to an illustrative user interface is displayed that presents information regarding utilization of a customer s service instance hosted on the electronic hosted services marketplace of . The user interface of may enable the illustrative customer Chris Customer to view histories of various recorded interactions with the customer s instance. In this illustrative example display feature reflects that details are displayed regarding an instance of the service Paul s Database of . Specifically details regarding a number of versions of a service are available for display by the customer. In this illustrative example each version corresponds to the status of an instance at a given point in time. Further each version may reflect a title given to the version and a party that created the version. For example version titled Initial Instance was created by Chris Customer. Similarly version Optimized Instance was created by DB Tuners. Though not depicted in each version may show additional or alternative information such as the date of creation of each version.

As described above in some embodiments managing of interactions with services may be facilitated by creating multiple replicas of a given instance. As such each version may derive from a replica of a previous instance. The visual connections between each instance may indicate the source of such a replica. Illustratively version Test Instance is directly connected to version Initial Instance and may therefore represent a replica of version the Initial Instance. Similarly version Optimized Instance may have initially been replicated from version while version Test Instance 2 may have initially been replicated from the version etc. However an initially replicated version of a service such as version may be associated with a set of interactions performed on the replica of a service. For example version Optimized Instance may correspond to a replicated instance on which DB Tuners performed the Database Optimization service described above with respect to . As such differences may exist between version and the Initial Instance version . Accordingly the interface may enable a customer to view the differences in data between two selected versions. Specifically the interface may enable a customer to select the checkbox corresponding to two distinct versions and to select input control in order to compare differences which exist between the two versions. One interface for displaying the differences in data between instance versions of a service will be described in more detail with respect to below. As discussed above in some embodiments a customer may desire in addition or alternative to viewing data differences between versions to view interactions which occurred with respect to a specified version. For example a customer may wish to view what actions DB Tuners took while interacting the version Optimized Instance. As such the interface may enable a customer to view interactions with an instance by selecting the View Details input control corresponding to each instance version. One interface for displaying the interactions by a third party with regard to a instance version of a service will be described in more detail with respect to below.

Though the interface above is illustratively discussed with regard to multiple replicated instances of a service in some embodiments customers may be enabled to manage interactions with a single instance of a service. Illustratively a customer or third parties may be enabled to record the state of an instance of a service at a given point in time. As such each of the versions of may represent recordings of the state of an instance. Thereafter as described above the customer may select check box input controls corresponding to two versions in order to view differences in data which exist between the two records. In addition a customer may select the View Details input control to view interactions that occurred prior to creation of the record.

With reference to an illustrative user interface is displayed that presents a customer with information regarding differences in data between versions of a service instance. As described above in some embodiments versions of a service instance may correspond to replicated instances of a service. In other embodiments versions may correspond to recorded states of an instance of a service. In the illustrative depiction of data differences between version Initial Instance and version Optimized Instance are displayed. As described above version may correspond to an instance of the service Paul s Database as initially created by Chris Customer . Further version may correspond to the same instance after the Database Optimization service has been performed on the instance. As such Chris Customer may wish to view any differences in data between the two versions and . For example Chris Customer may wish to verify that important data was not removed during the optimization process or to verify that work was completed in the manner expected. As such the interface may include a listing of differences in data which exist between the version and the version . For example the listing of differences may reflect files that were created modified or deleted during creation of the Optimized Instance version . In this illustrative example the file System Config.cfg was modified the file DBTuner Config.cfg was modified and the file Useless File.db was deleted.

Illustratively the listing of differences in data may be created by comparing the file systems of each version. For example each file on a file system corresponding to version may be compared with each file on a file system corresponding to version . As such any files existing on the earlier version but not on the later version may reflect a deletion of the file. Similarly files existing on the later version but not existing on the earlier version may reflect creation of the file. Further files existing on both file systems but with different contents may reflect modification to the file. In some embodiments the interface may enable a customer to view further details regarding a data difference. For example the interface may enable a customer to view which data within a file was modified or to view the two versions of data concurrently in order to view differences between the versions.

Further the customer may be enabled to accept or reject changes to data corresponding to a service instance. For example in the illustrative user interface the customer may be enabled to select an input control box corresponding to each data difference in order to mark the data difference as accepted or rejected. Thereafter the customer may select input control in order to accept the selected changes. In this example acceptance of a change may correspond to altering the Initial Instance version to include the data difference. Illustratively if all changes are acceptance the Initial Instance version may be deleted and replaced with the Optimized Instance version . By use of such controls a customer may selectively accept interactions performed by a third party. For example Chris Customer may accept the modifications performed in conjunction with an acquired Database Optimization service. Alternatively a customer may select input control in order to reject all interactions. Illustratively this may result in no modification to the Initial Instance version . Accordingly a customer may be enabled to reject all interactions with an instance that are unacceptable to the customer. For example the customer may reject all interactions by a third party associated with a provided service if the results of the service are unacceptable to the customer. As such the customer may acquire services without risk that the customer s instance will be unavoidably modified prior the customer s review and consent. In addition the customer may select input control to return to the previously displayed user interface such as user interface of .

With reference to an illustrative user interface is displayed that presents a customer with information regarding a history of utilization of a service instance. As described above in some embodiments versions of a service instance may correspond to replicated instances of a service. As such the displayed utilizations and interactions may reflect interactions taken with respect to the replicated instance. In other embodiments versions may correspond to recorded states of an instance of a service. As such displayed interactions may reflect interactions which occurred prior to creation of the recorded state. In the illustrative depiction of a history of interactions taken with respect to version Optimized Instance are displayed. As described above version may correspond to a customer s service instance after the Database Optimization service has been performed on the instance. As such the customer Chris Customer may wish to view a history of the utilization of the customer s instance by the providers of the Database Optimization service. For example Chris Customer may wish to verify that confidential or private data was not accessed during the optimization process or to verify that work was completed in the manner expected. As such the interface may include a listing of actions performed on the instance by taken by DB Tuners . For example the listing of actions may reflect that files were viewed created modified executed etc. In this illustrative example the listing of actions reflects that the file Confidential was viewed the program Config Updater was executed and the program File Cleanup Tool was executed.

Illustratively the listing of actions may include any level of detail with regard to recorded interaction with a service instance. For example in some embodiments the listing of actions may reflect each command entered by the interacting party. In other embodiments the interactions may reflect the all inputs by the interacting party e.g. mouse movement and key strokes as well as all outputs e.g. display audio etc. . In still more embodiments the list of actions may display only a portion of interactions. For example the customer the interacting party or both conjointly may specify types of interaction that should be included e.g. including certain commands but excluding others . As such the list of actions may reflect a filtered list of interactions with a service instance. Further in some embodiments the list of actions may be abstracted or obscured in accordance with the desires of the customer the interacting party or both. For example the list of actions may specify a program that was executed but not each modification caused by the executed program. Illustratively this may maintain the marketability of processes performed by third party service providers e.g. trade secrets valuable processes etc. . One skilled in the art will appreciate that the list of interactions may contain any portion of interactions with a service instance as well as any specificity with respect to those interactions.

User interface may further enable a customer to accept or reject interactions to an instance. For example in the illustrative user interface the customer may be enabled to select input control in order to accept the displayed actions . In this example acceptance of the displayed actions may correspond to altering the Initial Instance version to include the data difference. Illustratively if all changes are acceptance the Initial Instance version may be deleted and replaced with the Optimized Instance version . By use of such controls a customer may accept interactions performed by a third party. For example Chris Customer may accept the actions performed in conjunction with an acquired Database Optimization service. Alternatively a customer may select input control in order to reject all interactions. Illustratively this may result in no modification to the Initial Instance version . Accordingly a customer may be enabled to reject all interactions with an instance that are unacceptable to the customer. For example the customer may reject all interactions by a third party associated with a provided service if the results of the service are unacceptable to the customer. As such the customer may acquire services without risk that the customer s instance will be unavoidably modified prior the customer s review and consent. Further input control may enable a customer to contact the provider of the service which facilitated the listed interactions . For example Chris Customer may desire to contact DB Tuners the provider of the Database Optimization service in order to inquire regarding certain interactions e.g. the viewing of the Confidential file . In addition the customer may select input control to return to the previously displayed user interface such as user interface of .

All of the processes described herein may be embodied in and fully automated via software code modules executed by one or more general purpose computers or processors. The code modules may be stored in any type of computer readable medium or other computer storage device. Some or all the methods may alternatively be embodied in specialized computer hardware. In addition the components referred to herein may be implemented in hardware software firmware or a combination thereof.

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise are otherwise understood within the context as used in general to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

Conjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y and Z unless specifically stated otherwise is otherwise understood with the context as used in general to convey that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z. Thus such conjunctive language is not generally intended to imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X at least one of Y and at least one of Z to each be present.

Any process descriptions elements or blocks in the flow diagrams described herein and or depicted in the attached figures should be understood as potentially representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or elements in the process. Alternate implementations are included within the scope of the embodiments described herein in which elements or functions may be deleted executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those skilled in the art.

It should be emphasized that many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments the elements of which are to be understood as being among other acceptable examples. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

