---

title: On-chip entangled photon source
abstract: Various technologies pertaining to an on-chip entangled photon source are described herein. A light source is used to pump two resonator cavities that are resonant at two different respective wavelengths and two different respective polarizations. The resonator cavities are coupled to a four-wave mixing cavity that receives the light at the two wavelengths and outputs polarization-entangled photons.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09500930&OS=09500930&RS=09500930
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09500930
owner_city: Albququerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160309
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 132 100 filed Mar. 12 2015 and entitled ON CHIP ENTANGLED PHOTON SOURCE the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Quantum optics now finds applications in quantum communication quantum computing and quantum sensing. In these quantum optics applications photon sources are used that are designed to emit a photon stream having a controlled number of photons. In order to provide the necessary control over the output characteristics of the photon stream these sources rely on materials and structures that are difficult to implement in chip scale integrated circuit devices.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Technologies pertaining to an entangled photon source implemented on a single chip substrate are described herein. In an exemplary embodiment a photonic circuit comprises a narrowband laser that acts as a pumping source for a group of waveguide resonators. The laser emits light over a range of wavelengths and the light is received by two optical resonators each resonant at a different respective wavelength in the range of wavelengths and at a different respective polarization state. The two optical resonators output light in the two respective wavelengths to a four wave mixing cavity that accommodates both orthogonal polarization states. The four wave mixing cavity then outputs pairs of entangled photons the pairs of entangled photons having respective third and fourth wavelengths with disparate polarization states that are entangled. Therefore there are two degrees of freedom that are entangled between the photons of the two newly generated third and fourth wavelengths. The number of photons in the two wavelengths are equal and the polarization states of the two wavelengths are orthogonal and maximally entangled. In other words with respect to the polarization it is certain that the two polarization states are orthogonal but there is a fifty percent chance that for example the third wavelength is horizontally polarized and the fourth wavelength is vertically polarized and a fifty percent chance that the third wavelength is vertically polarized and the fourth wavelength is horizontally polarized.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to an on chip entangled photon source are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects. Further it is to be understood that functionality that is described as being carried out by certain system components may be performed by multiple components. Similarly for instance a component may be configured to perform functionality that is described as being carried out by multiple components.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

With reference to an exemplary system that facilitates an on chip implementation of an entangled photon source is illustrated. The system includes a photonic circuit that comprises an optical pump source that emits light. The photonic circuit further comprises an optical entanglement component that comprises resonator cavities and a four wave mixing FWM cavity where the optical entanglement component receives light emitted from the optical pump source . The photonic circuit comprises a plurality of components deposited or installed on a same substrate. As used herein the term on chip refers to a component or device deposited installed upon or comprising a substrate e.g. a semi conductor substrate . In an example the same substrate comprises a silicon based substance e.g. silicon dioxide . As indicated above the optical entanglement component is optically coupled to the optical pump source and outputs pairs of quantum entangled photons.

Details of operation of the system are described below. The optical pump source is an optical source that outputs light in a narrow band of wavelengths. In non limiting examples the optical pump source can emit light with a bandwidth of between 1 10 nanometers with a bandwidth between 5 and 20 nanometers with a bandwidth of 15 40 nanometers with a bandwidth of 5 100 nanometers etc. Further the optical pump source can comprise a single frequency laser that emits light with a highest intensity at a center wavelength e.g. 1550 nm and lower intensities at wavelengths on either side of the center wavelength. In a further example the optical pump source can additionally include a doped fiber amplifier DFA that amplifies the light from the laser. In the further example an intensity of the light emitted by the optical pump source e.g. subsequent to the light being amplified can be on the order of 100 mW. The optical pump source emits light in pulses. When the optical pump source is excited to generate a pulse photons are emitted according to some probability distribution. The power of the pump source can be adjusted either to increase or decrease the probability of generating the third and the fourth wavelength photons via a four wave mixing process. The probability to create the entangled photon pairs at the third and the fourth wavelengths follows the Poisson distribution. For example in a given pulse the probability of emitting one photon can be approximately 10 the probability of emitting two photons can be approximately 0.45 and the probability of emitting zero photons can be approximately 90 with a small probability of emitting some other number of photons.

The optical pump source is optically coupled to resonator cavities . The first resonator cavity is resonant at a first wavelength and at a first polarization state p while the second resonator cavity is resonant at a second wavelength which is different from and at a second polarization state porthogonal to p. The wavelengths and are present in the light emitted from the optical pump source . When light enters the first resonator cavity light of the first resonant wavelength is amplified due to constructive interference while light of non resonant wavelengths is attenuated due to losses in the first resonator cavity . Similarly when light enters the second resonator cavity light of the second resonant wavelength is amplified while light of non resonant wavelengths is attenuated. The resonator cavities therefore act as filters that pass light of their respective resonant wavelengths and polarization states. A resonant wavelength of a resonator cavity depends on parameters of its construction. By way of an example the resonator cavities can be ring resonators and a resonant wavelength is based upon a diameter of the ring resonator. Resonator cavity resonant at receives the light from the optical pump source and filters light at wavelengths other than . Likewise resonator cavity receives the light from the pump source and filters light at wavelengths other than . In an example the resonator cavities comprise optical ring resonators that are implemented as an arrangement of waveguides on a chip substrate.

The resonator cavities are each further optically coupled to the FWM cavity which is quadruply resonant at and as well as additional wavelengths and . In an example the FWM cavity is a ring resonator cavity with a free spectral range matching the differences if 

The FWM cavity receives light having the wavelength and the polarization pfrom the first resonator cavity and also receives light having the wavelength and the polarization pfrom the second resonator cavity . The FWM cavity comprises a material that exhibits a third order optical nonlinearity under certain optical conditions. In an example the FWM cavity comprises a typical optical waveguide made with Si or SiNsurrounded by SiOthat has a lower refractive index. Such Si or SiNmaterial exhibits a third order optical nonlinearity when a light with a sufficiently large intensity passes through. The third order optical nonlinearity is the source for the FWM process. As a result of these third order effects when the FWM cavity receives light of the two wavelengths and the two new wavelengths and are formed. Since momentum is conserved in the FWM process polarizations pand pof the light of respective wavelengths and depends on the polarizations pand pof the light received by the FWM cavity from the resonator cavities . Thus for example if polarization pis vertical and polarization pis horizontal by the conservation of momentum it must either be that pis horizontal and pis vertical or that pis vertical and pis horizontal. The result is that the FWM cavity outputs polarization entangled photons. Therefore the polarization state of the composite quantum state of and is a maximally entangled state under the Bell polarization basis. Since the polarization states pand pare entangled knowing one of the polarization states is sufficient to determine the other state.

The entangled photons generated on demand by the photonic circuit can be used in a variety of applications. In one example the entangled photons can be used in a heralded single photon source in a quantum key distribution QKD transmitter. By using a transmitter that generates pairs of entangled photons and transmits only one photon of an entangled pair two parties to communication can identify whether a transmission has been intercepted as part of a man in the middle attack. In another example a quantum computing device can perform computing operations based upon entangled photon pairs generated by the photonic circuit . In still yet another example entangled photon pairs generated by the photonic circuit can be used to perform quantum remote sensing wherein entangled photon pairs can be used to probe a feature of interest remotely.

Referring now to an exemplary system that facilitates quantum communication via an on chip heralded single photon source is illustrated. In certain quantum communications protocols and other applications it is desirable that only single photons be transmitted at a time. The BB84 communications protocol for example is vulnerable to attack if multiple photons are transmitted in a single pulse. An attacker can intercept one of the photons and gain information without perturbing the remaining photons and thereby revealing her presence on the communications channel. Since the optical pump source can emit pulses of varying numbers of photons according to a probabilistic distribution the optical entanglement component can emit more than one pair of photons for a single pulse of the optical pump source .

The system includes a photonic circuit that acts as a transmitter in a quantum communication system and a quantum optical receiver . The photonic circuit and the quantum optical receiver can communicate according to known quantum communications protocols such as for example the BB84 quantum key distribution QKD protocol. The quantum optical receiver can be a photonic circuit or any other device capable of acting as a receiver in a quantum communication protocol. The photonic circuit comprises the optical pump source and the optical entanglement component that outputs polarization entangled photons as described above with respect to . The optical pump source as discussed above emits light in pulses of varying numbers of photons and the output of the optical entanglement component comprises a correspondingly varying number of photons.

The photonic circuit further comprises a polarizing beam splitter that receives the photons from the optical entanglement component and diverts them along different paths according to their wavelength. Photons of a first wavelength say are diverted to a photon counter while photons of a second wavelength say are diverted to a delay line . The photon counter counts a number of photons of the wavelength that it receives while corresponding entangled photons of the wavelength are delayed by some amount of time via the delay line before they are received at an optical modulator . As discussed above with respect to the optical entanglement component outputs equal numbers of photons of respective orthogonal polarizations as a result of the conservation of energy and momentum in the FWM process. Thus the number of photons of wavelength counted by the photon counter is equal to a number of polarization entangled photons of wavelength that pass through the delay line to the optical modulator . The photons can therefore be said to herald the photons.

The optical modulator responsive to the photon counter determining a number of photons received from the polarizing beam splitter can either block or pass on the photons of received from the polarizing beam splitter via the delay line . The amount of time by which the delay line delays the photons depends upon a length of time needed for the photon counter to determine a number of photons in the pulse. In an exemplary embodiment the optical modulator is configured to block transmission of a pulse of photons when a number of corresponding entangled photons of the pulse received at the photon counter is greater than one and to allow transmission when the number of corresponding entangled photons received at the photon counter is one. In one example the optical modulator comprises an acousto optic modulator that acts as a switch for the output of the photonic circuit . In another example and referring now to a system in which the optical modulator comprises an electro optic modulator EOM and a Mach Zehnder interferometer is illustrated. The EOM can modulate a phase of one of two input legs of the Mach Zehnder interferometer . When the phase of the leg modulated by the EOM is in phase with the other leg the photon is passed to the receiver . When the phase of the leg modulated by the EOM is out of phase with the other leg of the Mach Zehnder interferometer the photons are not transmitted to the receiver . Thus the optical modulator comprising the EOM and the Mach Zehnder modulator also effectively operates as a switch on the output of the photonic circuit . The optical modulator allows the photonic circuit to output a single photon at a time even though the optical pump source emits photons in varying numbers according to the probabilistic distribution.

Referring now to a methodology that facilitates on chip generation of entangled photon pairs is illustrated. The methodology begins at and at a first optical resonator receives light having a plurality of wavelengths that can be of varying intensities. The first optical resonator is deposited or installed on a semiconductor substrate. The first optical resonator is resonant at a first wavelength of light in the plurality of wavelengths. Similarly at the light having the plurality of wavelengths is received at a second optical resonator that is deposited or installed on the same semiconductor substrate and that is resonant at a second wavelength in the plurality of wavelengths. At light having the first wavelength is received from the first optical resonator at a FWM cavity that is also deposited or installed on the same semiconductor substrate. At light having the second wavelength is received from the second optical resonator at the FWM cavity. At responsive to receiving the light having the first wavelength and the light having the second wavelength the FWM cavity outputs at least one pair of polarization entangled photons whereupon the methodology ends at .

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above devices or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

