---

title: Systems, methods, and apparatus for a bingo game having special ball functions
abstract: Systems, apparatus, methods and articles of manufacture provide for a bingo game including at least one special ball having an associated special function. In one embodiment, one or more special functions may have persistent effects on one or more bingo spaces (e.g., of a bingo card) and/or may be combined with the effects one or more other special functions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09652930&OS=09652930&RS=09652930
owner: Gamesys Ltd.
number: 09652930
owner_city: London
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20160705
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

Each of the above referenced applications is incorporated by reference in its entirety in the present application.

Inventors have recognized that in accordance with some embodiments described in this disclosure some types of game providers and some types of social network users players and or other users may find it beneficial to provide and or to participate in a bingo game that provides for bingo balls and or other types of bingo game symbols having one or more special associated functions.

In accordance with some exemplary and non limiting embodiments this disclosure describes among other things systems and methods for providing facilitating and or playing bingo games such as 75 ball bingo games e.g. played on a 5 5 card . Also it will be understood that computer readable media and apparatus comprising such computer readable media may be configured so as to provide for one or more of the functions described in this disclosure.

Some introductory examples of one or more embodiments are described in this disclosure. The embodiments described in this disclosure are not limited to any such examples. Within each broader example one or more additional alternative and or optional examples of some features may be referenced and not all such features or examples may be required.

In accordance with some embodiments of the present invention one or more systems apparatus methods articles of manufacture and or computer readable media e.g. a non transitory computer readable memory storing instructions for directing a processor provide for one or more of i determining a special ball for a bingo game the special ball being associated with at least one special function ii determining a trigger associated with a special ball for activating a special function iii activating a special function associated with a special ball iv modifying a bingo game interface based on a special function of a special ball v daubing and or undaubing at least one bingo space for a bingo game based on a special function of a special ball and or vi changing a state of at least one bingo space for a bingo game based on a special function of a special ball.

According to some embodiments a bingo game is provided that utilizes one or more bingo balls and or other representations of bingo game symbols associated with one or more special functions. For discussion purposes some non limiting examples of bingo game symbols associated with special functions may be referred in this disclosure as special balls and or Wonderballs. 

In one or more embodiments a special ball may be associated with one or more actions or functions which may be referred to in this disclosure as special actions or special functions . In accordance with one or more embodiments special functions may be activated taken initiated or implemented for example when a special ball is called and or enabled for play and or when a bingo space associated with the special ball is marked or daubed. In some embodiments a special ball may be associated with a special function and a trigger or condition that when met causes a bingo game to activate or provide the special function.

According to some embodiments an implementation of a special function may comprise animation audio and or audio via a user interface to represent an effect of the special function e.g. an animated representation of a bingo ball or character may daub and or undaub one or more bingo spaces .

In some embodiments one or more special balls may be dispersed e.g. randomly and or by design within standard ball calls.

In some embodiments one or more special balls may be represented in a visible ball queue of balls not yet enabled for play e.g. displayed in a visible queue with one or more other special and or standard balls so players can see an indication of one or more balls that may be called before they are called. Some examples of bingo ball queues and associated features that may be useful in accordance with some embodiments discussed in this disclosure are discussed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 215 132 Attorney Docket No. GS01 003 02 entitled SYSTEMS METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR BINGO GAMES HAVING A VISIBLE BALL QUEUE filed Mar. 17 2014 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety in this disclosure.

According to some embodiments an action associated with a special ball may benefit one or more players and or may hinder the chances of one or more players to achieve a bingo e.g. to achieve a winning bingo configuration .

In accordance with some embodiments of the present invention one or more systems apparatus methods articles of manufacture and or computer readable media provide for one or more of i calling a first special ball for play in a bingo game ii applying a function of the first special ball to a bingo space for the bingo game e.g. to provide a persistent effect on the bingo space iii calling a second special ball for play in the bingo game and iv applying the function of the second special ball to the bingo space for the bingo game.

In some embodiments applying the respective functions of first one special ball and then a second later special ball results in a combined effect of both special functions e.g. on one or more bingo spaces . In some embodiments applying a second special function to a bingo space after a first special function has been applied to the bingo space may comprise preventing an effect of the second special function e.g. the first special function renders the bingo space immune to the second special function .

In accordance with some embodiments of the present invention one or more systems apparatus methods articles of manufacture and or computer readable media provide for one or more of i determining a first state of a bingo space of a player and or of a corresponding player bingo symbol ii determining a second state of the bingo space e.g. based on a first called bingo game symbol iii determining one or more functions to apply to the bingo space e.g. based on a called bingo game symbol associated with a special function iv determining a third state of the bingo space e.g. based on a second called bingo game symbol and or an associated second special function and or v determining a game result for a bingo game based on the third state of the bingo space.

In some embodiments one or more types of special balls may be available in any bingo game available on a bingo gaming platform or website. For example a global special ball may be available in any bingo room bingo game theme or bingo game available within an on line bingo application or gaming platform. In some embodiments one or more types of special balls may be limited to only specific themes game rooms and or games. For example a theme specific special ball may be specific to a single bingo game theme within an on line bingo application and or may only appear in an associated bingo room with the exception of promotions according to some embodiments .

In accordance with one or more example and non limiting embodiments this disclosure describes among other things systems apparatus articles of manufacture and methods for providing facilitating and or playing bingo games such as a bingo game played on a bingo card e.g. a 5 5 bingo card . Also it will be understood that computer readable media and apparatus comprising such computer readable media may be configured so as to provide for one or more of the functions described in this disclosure. In accordance with some embodiments at least one function or step of a described process may be performed via a user interface e.g. presented via a display of a mobile device or other type of computing device .

Throughout this description and unless otherwise specified the following terms may include and or encompass the example meanings provided in this section. These terms and illustrative example meanings are provided to clarify the language selected to describe embodiments both in the specification and in the appended claims and accordingly are not intended to be limiting. While not generally limiting and while not limiting for all described embodiments in some embodiments the terms are specifically limited to the example definitions and or examples provided. Other terms are defined throughout the present description.

A game as the term is used in this disclosure unless specified otherwise may generally comprise any game e.g. wagering or non wagering electronically playable over a network playable by one or more players in accordance with specified rules. A game may be playable on a personal computer PC online in web browsers on a game console and or on a mobile device such as a smart phone or tablet computer. Gaming thus generally refers to play of a game.

A casual game as the term is utilized in this disclosure unless otherwise specified may generally comprise a game with simple rules with little or no time commitment on the time of a player to play. A casual game may feature for example very simple game play such as a puzzle or Scrabble game may allow for short bursts of play e.g. during work breaks an ability to quickly reach a final stage and or continuous play without a need to save the game.

A social network game as used in this disclosure unless specified otherwise generally refers to and in specific embodiments may be expressly limited to a type of online game that is played through a social network and in some embodiments may feature multiplayer and asynchronous game play mechanics. A social network may refer to an online service online community platform or site that focuses on facilitating the building of social networks or social relations among people. A social network service may for example consist of a representation of each user often a profile his her social links and a variety of additional services. A social network may be web based and provide means for users to interact over the Internet such as e mail and instant messaging. A social network game may in some embodiments be implemented as a browser game but may also be implemented on other platforms such as mobile devices.

A wagering game as the term is used in this disclosure unless specified otherwise may generally comprise and in specific embodiments may be expressly limited to a game on which a player can risk a wager or other consideration such as but not limited to slot games poker games blackjack baccarat craps roulette lottery bingo keno casino war etc. A wager may comprise a monetary wager in the form of an amount of currency or any other tangible or intangible article having some value which may be risked on an outcome of a wagering game. Gambling or wagering generally refers to play of a wagering game.

The term game provider as used in this disclosure unless specified otherwise generally refers to and in specific embodiments may be expressly limited to an entity or system of components which provides games for play and facilitates play of such game by use of a network such as the Internet or a proprietary or closed networks e.g. an intranet or wide area network . For example a game provider may operate a website which provides games in a digital format over the Internet. In some embodiments in which a game comprising a wagering game is provided a game provider may operate a gambling website over which wagers are accepted and results of wagering games are provided.

As utilized in this disclosure the term player may generally refer to and in specific embodiments may be expressly limited to any type quantity and or manner of entity associated with the play of a game. In some embodiments a player may comprise an entity conducting play of an online game for example may comprise an entity that desires to play a game e.g. an entity registered and or scheduled to play and or an entity having expressed interest in the play of the game e.g. a spectator and or may comprise an entity that configures manages and or conducts a game. A player may be currently playing a game or have previously played the game or may not yet have initiated play i.e. a player may comprise a potential player e.g. in general and or with respect to a specific game . In some embodiments a player may comprise a user of an interface e.g. whether or not such a player participates in a game or seeks to participate in the game . In some embodiments a player may comprise an individual or group that enters joins logs into registers for and or otherwise access an online game room session server and or other particular instance and or segmentation of an online game.

Some embodiments described in this disclosure are associated with a player device or a network device . As used in this disclosure a player device is a subset of a network device . The network device for example may generally refer to any device that can communicate via a network while the player device may comprise a network device that is owned and or operated by or otherwise associated with a player. Examples of player and or network devices may include but are not limited to a PC a computer workstation a computer server a printer a scanner a facsimile machine a copier a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a storage device e.g. a disk drive a hub a router a switch and a modem a video game console or a wireless or cellular telephone. Player and or network devices may in some embodiments comprise one or more network components.

As used in this disclosure the term network component may refer to a player or network device or a component piece portion or combination of player or network devices. Examples of network components may include a Static Random Access Memory SRAM device or module a network processor and a network communication path connection port or cable.

In addition some embodiments are associated with a network or a communication network. As used in this disclosure the terms network and communication network may be used interchangeably and may refer to any object entity component device and or any combination thereof that permits facilitates and or otherwise contributes to or is associated with the transmission of messages packets signals and or other forms of information between and or within one or more network devices. Networks may be or include a plurality of interconnected network devices. In some embodiments networks may be hard wired wireless virtual neural and or any other configuration or type that is or becomes known. Communication networks may include for example devices that communicate directly or indirectly via a wired or wireless medium such as the Internet intranet a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN a cellular telephone network a Bluetooth network a Near Field Communication NFC network a Radio Frequency RF network a Virtual Private Network VPN Ethernet or IEEE 802.3 Token Ring or via any appropriate communications means or combination of communications means. Exemplary protocols include but are not limited to Bluetooth Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Global System for Mobile communications GSM Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE General Packet Radio Service GPRS Wideband CDMA WCDMA Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS Digital AMPS D AMPS IEEE 802.11 WI FI IEEE 802.3 SAP the best of breed BOB and or system to system S2S .

As used in this disclosure the terms information and data may be used interchangeably and may refer to any data text voice video image message bit packet pulse tone waveform and or other type or configuration of signal and or information. Information may comprise information packets transmitted for example in accordance with the Internet Protocol Version 6 IPv6 standard. Information may according to some embodiments be compressed encoded encrypted and or otherwise packaged or manipulated in accordance with any method that is or becomes known or practicable.

The term indication as used in this disclosure unless specified otherwise may generally refer to any indicia and or other information indicative of or associated with a subject item entity and or other object and or idea. As used in this disclosure the phrases information indicative of and indicia may be used to refer to any information that represents describes and or is otherwise associated with a related entity subject or object. Indicia of information may include for example a code a reference a link a signal an identifier and or any combination thereof and or any other informative representation associated with the information. In some embodiments indicia of information or indicative of the information may be or include the information itself and or any portion or component of the information. In some embodiments an indication may include a request a solicitation a broadcast and or any other form of information gathering and or dissemination.

A session as the term is used in this disclosure unless indicated otherwise may generally comprise and in specific embodiments may be expressly limited to a period of time spanning a plurality of event instances or turns of the game the session having a defined start and defined end. An event instance or turn is triggered upon an initiation of or request for at least one result of the game by a player such as an actuation of a start or spin mechanism which initiation causes an outcome to be determined or generated e.g. a random number generator is contacted or communicated with to identify generate or determine a random number to be used to determine a result for the event instance .

As used in this disclosure the terms outcome and result should be differentiated in the present description in that an outcome is generally a representation of a result typically comprising one or more game elements or game symbols. For example in a fruit themed game a winning outcome i.e. an outcome corresponding to some kind of award prize or payout may comprise a combination of three cherry symbols. The result of this outcome may be a payout of X credits awarded to the player associated with the game. In another example in a game in which a character moves along a game interface from a starting position to a finish position an outcome of the game may comprise a symbol representing one or more movements along the interface and the result corresponding to this outcome may be the particular number and direction of the character s movement e.g. three 3 spaces backwards such that the character ends up further away from the finish line . In a session embodiment a session result may comprise a binary result e.g. a player or game character wins or loses the session and or the particular award or magnitude of award won or earned by the player based on the session e.g. the number of credits awarded to the player . It should be noted that the embodiments described in this disclosure encompass awards prizes and payouts which are monetary non monetary tangible or intangible.

As used in this disclosure the term virtual currency may generally refer to an in game currency that may be used as part of a game or one or more games provided by a game provider as i currency for making wagers and or ii to purchase or access various in game items features or powers.

A credit balance as the term is used in this disclosure unless indicated otherwise may generally refer to i a balance of currency whether virtual currency and or real currency usable for making wagers in a game and or ii another tracking mechanism for tracking a player s success or advancement in a game by deducting there from points or value for unsuccessful attempts at advancement and adding thereto points or value for successful attempts at advancement.

Some embodiments are descriptive of an array or matrix of symbols or game outcomes. As utilized in this disclosure the terms array and matrix generally refer to a group of symbols numbers and or expressions arranged in a plurality of rows and columns or that can be readily and appropriately represented mathematically as being so arranged . In some embodiments the term array is utilized to refer to a multi dimensional matrix or combination of matrices while the term matrix is utilized to refer to a two dimensional set of symbols or numbers e.g. bingo tickets slot reel symbols and or mathematical representations thereof . According to some embodiments such as in the case that an array and or matrix is populated with graphical game symbols the array or matrix may be output and or displayed e.g. transmit to and or rendered on a player device as part of a game session.

Some embodiments of this disclosure relate to bingo games and or computer software applications for providing bingo games. Some embodiments of this disclosure relate to gaming networks for providing bingo games including social network games single player games and or multiplayer games.

According to some embodiments a bingo game is provided in which a player uses one or more cards or tickets or other type of physical or electronic game play area or game space that include symbols e.g. alphanumeric characters and or other types of identifiers assigned to respective spaces or other designated areas on the card. One or more symbols are drawn selected or otherwise determined from a set of symbols available for the bingo game and in accordance with some embodiments the drawn symbols are compared to the symbols designated on the card to see if there are any matches. It will be readily understood that a set of symbols for a bingo game may include any range of numbers multiple ranges of numbers a non sequential range of numbers alphanumeric characters non numeric symbols letters punctuation marks and or any other representation of information.

According to some embodiments for a given bingo game the distribution of bingo symbols across cards and or the distribution of the tickets across players may be in accordance with one or more distribution algorithms and or at random. In some embodiments a bingo system generates all possible combinations of available bingo symbols as cards and distributes all of the possible cards before distributing any repeat cards.

According to some embodiments if marked or daubed spaces on a card form one or more previously designated arrangements a bingo pattern or winning pattern the card may be deemed a winning card and or the player may be eligible for a prize. In one example a player may win a prize by calling Bingo for a card with a winning pattern e.g. by clicking a Bingo button of a game interface to indicate the player thinks his electronic bingo card includes a winning bingo pattern . Daubed or marked will be used synonymously in this disclosure to refer to spaces symbols numbers etc. on a card that have been marked covered stamped daubed highlighted or otherwise identified physically visually and or graphically as potentially contributing to a winning pattern e.g. alone or in combination with one or more other marked spaces . In some embodiments spaces are daubed e.g. automatically by a gaming device and or manually by a player if they match symbols drawn for a bingo game. Alternatively or in addition one or more spaces may be daubed without requiring that the space match a drawn symbol a free daub or mark . For example a card may have one or more free daubs automatically prior to the start of play e.g. the center square of a 5 5 grid may be pre marked with a free daub and or anytime during play e.g. by receiving a free random daub in accordance with a game rule .

According to one embodiment a card includes spaces arranged in columns and rows e.g. a 5 5 grid of spaces a 3 4 array of ticket lines each having a designated number e.g. selected from a set of bingo numbers 1 75 represented in a respective space on the card.

According to some embodiments one or more symbols for a bingo game may be associated with a symbol identifier that identifies the symbol e.g. a unique bingo number and with one or more types of symbol category identifiers that identify a category group and or type associated with a symbol.

In accordance with one or more embodiments a symbol category identifier may comprise a location identifier and or a number category or group. According to some embodiments each symbol for a bingo game may be associated with one or more respective location identifiers. In one embodiment certain symbols may be designated only in certain areas of a game card. For example the B column of a 5 5 card may only include numbers selected in the range of 1 15. In another example the first column of a 90 ball bingo game ticket may only include numbers selected in the range of 1 10 the second column may only include numbers selected in the range of 11 20 and so on.

Accordingly in some embodiments a given bingo symbol may be associated with both a number or a shape color or other type of symbol identifier that distinguishes it from other symbols and location information e.g. a column identifier row identifier and or other type of location identifier including information about where the symbol may appear on the card. In one example a bingo ball may be associated with the number 3 and with a B indicating that if it appears on a card it would appear in a designated B column of spaces.

According to one embodiment a card for a bingo game may include one or more types of location identifiers. Location identifiers may include without limitation one or more column identifiers row identifiers and or other types of identifiers that uniquely identify a particular grid space row column area or other portion of a bingo card. For example each column of a 5 5 bingo card may be identified respectively as B I N G or O .

According to some embodiments symbols may be represented e.g. physically or electronically via a user interface as numbered balls. Drawn numbers themselves may be referred to in this disclosure as balls for illustrative purposes and without limitation. As used in this disclosure a symbol draw or ball draw may be used to refer to a process for selecting or otherwise determining e.g. at random numbers or other types of symbols drawn for use in comparing to symbols on a card for a bingo game. Drawn balls and drawn numbers may be used for convenience to refer to symbols selected in a symbol draw and it will be understood that such terms are not limited to balls or numbers but encompass any type of symbols drawn for a bingo game. Those of skill in the art will realize that the symbols used in an electronic bingo game may be displayed in any convenient fashion as deemed appropriate for a particular implementation and that a simulated ball draw is merely one example. The number of balls drawn and the timing of ball draws may vary according to the desired type of bingo game.

According to some embodiments a bingo game is played until at least one predetermined winning pattern is established on a bingo card. In some embodiments determining whether a winning pattern is marked properly on a card may comprise determining whether each marked space may be compared to a set of drawn symbols to verify that it is a valid mark and therefore may qualify for or contribute to a winning pattern. In another example determining if a marked pattern is a winning pattern may comprise determining whether any marked spaces are valid free daubs. According to some embodiments a bingo game is played until a predetermined number of winning patterns are achieved e.g. by one or more players and or until a time limit expires.

According to some embodiments a player must identify any matches between drawn numbers and numbers designated on the player s card s the player must take action to daub spaces on the card e.g. via a user interface in order to form potential winning patterns and or the player must take action to declare a card has one or more winning patterns e.g. by clicking a Bingo button . In one embodiment one or more daubed spaces may be undaubed by a player and or bingo game program. In one example a player may undaub a space that the player mistakenly daubed. In some embodiments one or more matching numbers may be daubed automatically and or one or more winning patterns of marked spaces may be identified automatically e.g. electronically by gaming device in accordance with instructions of a computer software program . Some embodiments may provide for automatic daubing of one or more spaces e.g. for initial free daubs and or random free daubs during play and for manual daubing by the player of one or more spaces e.g. in response to matching drawn numbers .

Turning first to a block diagram of a system according to some embodiments is shown. In some embodiments the system may comprise a gaming platform such as a gaming platform via which one or more multiplayer and or online games may be played e.g. one or more bingo games as described in this disclosure . In some embodiments the system may comprise a plurality of player devices in communication with and or via a network . In some embodiments a game server may be in communication with the network and or one or more of the player devices . In some embodiments the game server and or the player devices may be in communication with a database . The database may store for example game data e.g. processed and or defined by the game server data associated with players not explicitly shown owning and or operating the player devices and or instructions that cause various devices e.g. the game server and or the player devices to operate in accordance with embodiments described in this disclosure.

According to some embodiments any or all of the components of the system may be similar in configuration and or functionality to any similarly named and or numbered components described in this disclosure. Fewer or more components and or portions thereof and or various configurations of the components may be included in the system without deviating from the scope of embodiments described in this disclosure. While multiple instances of some components are depicted and while single instances of other components are depicted for example any component depicted in the system may comprise a single device a combination of devices and or components and or a plurality of devices as is or becomes desirable and or practicable. Similarly in some embodiments one or more of the various components may not be needed and or desired in the system .

The player devices in some embodiments may comprise any type or configuration of electronic mobile electronic and or other network and or communication devices or combinations thereof that are or become known or practicable. A first player device may for example comprise one or more PC devices computer workstations e.g. game consoles and or gaming computers tablet computers such as an iPad manufactured by Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. and or cellular and or wireless telephones such as an iPhone also manufactured by Apple Inc. or an Optimus S smart phone manufactured by LG Electronics Inc. of San Diego Calif. and running the Android operating system from Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. In some embodiments one or more of the player devices may be specifically utilized and or configured e.g. via specially programmed and or stored instructions such as may define or comprise a software application to communicate with the game server e.g. via the network . In some embodiments a game server may be in communication with a variety of different types of player devices 

The network may according to some embodiments comprise a LAN WAN cellular telephone network Bluetooth network NFC network and or RF network with communication links between the player devices the game server and or the database . In some embodiments the network may comprise direct communications links between any or all of the components of the system . The game server may for example be directly interfaced or connected to the database via one or more wires cables wireless links and or other network components such network components e.g. communication links comprising portions of the network . In some embodiments the network may comprise one or many other links or network components other than those depicted in . A second player device may for example be connected to the game server via various cell towers routers repeaters ports switches and or other network components that comprise the Internet and or a cellular telephone and or Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN network and which comprise portions of the network .

While the network is depicted in as a single object the network may comprise any number type and or configuration of networks that is or becomes known or practicable. According to some embodiments the network may comprise a conglomeration of different sub networks and or network components interconnected directly or indirectly by the components of the system . The network may comprise one or more cellular telephone networks with communication links between the player devices and the game server for example and or may comprise the Internet with communication links between the player devices and the database for example.

According to some embodiments the game server may comprise a device and or system owned and or operated by or on behalf of or for the benefit of a gaming entity not explicitly shown . The gaming entity may utilize player and or game information or instructions e.g. stored by the database in some embodiments to host manage analyze design define price conduct and or otherwise provide or cause to be provided one or more games such as online multiplayer games e.g. one or more bingo games as described in this disclosure . In some embodiments the gaming entity and or a third party not explicitly shown may provide an interface not shown in to and or via the player devices . The interface may be configured according to some embodiments to allow and or facilitate electronic game play by one or more players. In some embodiments the system and or interface provided by the game server may present game data e.g. from the database in such a manner that allows players to participate in one or more online games singularly in with groups and or otherwise . According to some embodiments the game server may cause and or facilitate various functionality and or features of one or more bingo games each as described in this disclosure.

In some embodiments the database may comprise any type configuration and or quantity of data storage devices that are or become known or practicable. The database may for example comprise an array of optical and or solid state hard drives configured to store player and or game data and or various operating instructions drivers etc. While the database is depicted as a stand alone component of the system in the database may comprise multiple components. In some embodiments a multi component database may be distributed across various devices and or may comprise remotely dispersed components. Any or all of the player devices may comprise the database or a portion thereof for example and or the game server may comprise the database or a portion thereof.

According to some embodiments any or all of the player devices in conjunction with one or more of the game server and or the database e.g. via the network may conduct in whole or in part facilitate and or otherwise be associated with execution of one or more stored procedures applications processes and or methods and or one or more portions and or combinations thereof as described in this disclosure.

In some embodiments a game server and or one or more of the player devices stores and or has access to data useful for facilitating play of a game. For example game server and or a player device may store i one or more probability databases for determining one or more outcome s for a game ii a current state or status of a game or game session iii one or more user interfaces for use in a game iv one or more game themes for a game and or v profiles or other personal information associated with a player of a game. It should be noted that in some embodiments such data may be stored on the game server and information based on such data may be output to a player device during play of a game while in other embodiments a game program may be downloaded to a local memory of a player device and thus such data may be stored on a player device e.g. in encrypted or other secure or tamper resistant form .

According to some embodiments a game server may comprise a computing device for facilitating play of a game e.g. by receiving an input from a player determining an outcome for a game causing an outcome of a game to be displayed on a player device facilitating a wager and or a provision of a payout for a game . For example the game server may comprise a server computer operated by a game provider or another entity e.g. a social network website . In some embodiments the game server may determine an outcome for a first aspect and or second aspect of a game by requesting and receiving such an outcome from another remote server operable to provide such outcomes. In some embodiments the game server may further be operable to facilitate a game program for a game e.g. a wagering game . In accordance with some embodiments in addition to administering or facilitating play of a game a game server may comprise one or more computing devices responsible for handling online processes such as but not limited to serving a website comprising one or more games to a player device and or processing transactions e.g. wagers deposits into financial accounts managing accounts controlling games etc. . In some embodiments game server may comprise two or more server computers operated by the same entity e.g. one server being primarily for storing states of games in progress and another server being primarily for storing mechanisms for determining outcomes of games such as a random number generator .

Examples of processes that may be performed by the game server directly or indirectly may include but are not limited to i determining a set of available numbers and or other types of bingo symbols for a bingo game ii conducting a symbol draw or otherwise determining or selecting e.g. at random which symbols of a plurality of bingo symbols available e.g. depending on the type of bingo game are drawn for a particular round of a bingo game iii transmitting an indication of at least one drawn symbol to a player device iv determining one or more drawn symbols that are in play for a bingo game e.g. that previously may have been visible and or queued but not yet available for play v transmitting an indication of at least one drawn and queued symbol to a player device vi determining and or transmitting e.g. to a player device one or more cards tickets or other type of bingo game space for a bingo game vii determining one or more players of a bingo game viii determining and or establishing at least one winning pattern for a bingo game ix determining at least one bingo card having at least one valid winning pattern e.g. of daubed spaces x determining an outcome of a bingo game xi transmitting an indication of an outcome of a bingo game to a player device xii determining one or more drawn symbols that are queued to be enabled for play in a bingo game e.g. but are not yet available for play xiii determining one or more drawn symbols for which respective visual representations are or are to be made visible to one or more players xiv authorizing a game program to be downloaded to a player device and or xv modifying and or directing a player device to modify a game interface e.g. to provide for electronic gaming .

A player device may be used to play a wagering or non wagering game e.g. a social or casual game over a network and output information relating to the game to players participating in the game e.g. outcomes for a round of a bingo game special numbers for a player qualifying for a level upgrade in the game balance of credits available for play of the game etc. . Any and all information relevant to any of the aforementioned functions may be stored locally on one or more of the player devices and or may be accessed using one or more of the player devices in one embodiments such information being stored on or provided via the game server . In another embodiment a player device may store some or all of the program instructions for providing one or more of the functions described with respect to game server e.g. in a downloadable software application . In some embodiments the game server may be operable to authorize the one or more player devices to access such information and or program instructions remotely via the network and or download from the game server e.g. directly or via an intermediary server such as a web server some or all of the program code for executing one or more of the various functions described in this disclosure. In other embodiments outcome and result determinations may be carried out by the game server or another server with which the game server communicates and the player devices may be terminals for displaying to an associated player such outcomes and results and other graphics and data related to a game.

It should be noted that the one or more player devices may each be located at the same location as at least one other player device e.g. such as in a casino or internet caf or remote from all other player devices . Similarly any given player device may be located at the same location as the game server or may be remote from the game server . It should further be noted that while the game server may be useful or used by any of the player devices to perform certain functions described in this disclosure the game server need not control any of the player devices . For example in one embodiment the game server may comprise a server hosting a website of an online casino accessed by one or more of the player devices 

In one embodiment a game server may not be necessary or desirable. For example some embodiments described in this disclosure may be practiced on one or more player devices without a central authority. In such an embodiment any functions described in this disclosure as performed by a game server and or data described as stored on a game server may instead be performed by or stored on one or more player devices . Additional ways of distributing information and program instructions among one or more player devices a game server and or another server device will be readily understood by one skilled in the art upon contemplation of the present disclosure.

Referring now to a block diagram of a system according to some embodiments is shown. In some embodiments the system may comprise a gaming platform such as a platform via which social multiplayer and or online games may be played e.g. one or more bingo games as described in this disclosure . In some embodiments the system may comprise a plurality of player devices the Internet a load balancer and or a game server cluster . The game server cluster may in some embodiments comprise a plurality of game servers . In some embodiments the system may comprise a cache persistor a Simple Queuing Service SQS device a task scheduler an e mail service device and or a query service device . As depicted in any or all of the various components may be in communication with and or coupled to one or more databases . The system may comprise for example a dynamic database DB a cloud based cache cluster e.g. comprising a game state cache a bingo cache and or a hydra cache a non relational DB a remote DB service a persistence DB and or a reporting DB

According to some embodiments any or all of the components of the system may be similar in configuration and or functionality to any similarly named and or numbered components described in this disclosure. Fewer or more components and or portions thereof and or various configurations of the components may be included in the system without deviating from the scope of embodiments described in this disclosure. While multiple instances of some components are depicted and while single instances of other components are depicted for example any component depicted in the system may comprise a single device a combination of devices and or components and or a plurality of devices as is or becomes desirable and or practicable. Similarly in some embodiments one or more of the various components may not be needed and or desired in the system .

According to some embodiments the player devices may be utilized to access e.g. via the Internet and or one or more other networks not explicitly shown content provided by the game server cluster . The game server cluster may for example provide manage host and or conduct various online and or otherwise electronic games such as online bingo slot style games poker and or other games of chance skill and or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the various game servers virtual and or physical of the game server cluster may be configured to provide manage host and or conduct individual instances and or sessions of available game types. A first game server for example may host a first particular session of an online bingo game or tournament a second game server may host a second particular session of an online bingo game or tournament a third game server may facilitate an online poker tournament e.g. and a corresponding plurality of game sessions that comprise the tournament and or a fourth game server may provide an online slots game e.g. by hosting one or more slot game sessions .

In some embodiments the player devices may comprise various components hardware firmware and or software not explicitly shown that facilitate game play and or interaction with the game server cluster . The player device may for example comprise a gaming client such as a software application programmed in Adobe Flash and or HTML 5 that is configured to send requests to and receive responses from one or more of the game servers of the game server cluster . In some embodiments such an application operating on and or via the player devices may be configured in Model View Controller MVC architecture with a communication manager layer responsible for managing the requests to responses from the game server cluster . In some embodiments one or more of the game servers may also or alternatively be configured in a MVC architecture with a communication manager and or communications management layer not explicitly shown in . In some embodiments communications between the player devices and the game server cluster may be conducted in accordance with the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP version 1.1 HTTP 1.1 as published by the Internet Engineering Taskforce IET and the World Wide Web Consortium W3C in RFC 2616 June 1999 .

According to some embodiments communications between the player devices and the game server cluster may be managed and or facilitated by the load balancer . The load balancer may for example route communications from player devices to one or more of the specific game servers depending upon various attributes and or variables such as bandwidth availability e.g. traffic management volumetric load balancing server load e.g. processing load balancing server functionality e.g. contextual awareness availability and or player server history e.g. session awareness stickiness . In some embodiments the load balancer may comprise one or more devices and or services provided by a third party not separately shown in . The load balancer may for example comprise an Elastic Load Balancer ELB service provided by Amazon Web Services LLC of Seattle Wash. According to some embodiments such as in the case that the load balancer comprises the ELB or a similar service the load balancer may manage set determine define and or otherwise influence the number of game servers within the game server cluster . In the case that traffic and or requests from the player devices only require the first and second game servers for example all other game servers may be taken off line may not be initiated and or called and or may otherwise not be required and or utilized in the system . As demand increases and or if performance security and or other issues cause one or more of the first and second game servers to experience detrimental issues the load balancer may call and or bring online one or more of the other game servers depicted in . In the case that each game server comprises an instance of an Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud EC2 service the load balancer may add or remove instances as is or becomes practicable and or desirable.

In some embodiments the load balancer and or the Internet may comprise one or more proxy servers and or devices not shown in via which communications between the player devices and the game server cluster are conducted and or routed. Such proxy servers and or devices may comprise one or more regional game hosting centers for example which may be geographically dispersed and addressable by player devices in a given geographic proximity. In some embodiments the proxy servers and or devices may be located in one or more geographic areas and or jurisdictions while the game server cluster and or certain game servers and or groups of game servers thereof is located in a separate and or remote geographic area and or jurisdiction.

According to some embodiments for specific game types such as bingo the game server cluster may provide game results such as a full set of drawn bingo numbers and or bonus metrics to a controller device not separately shown in that times the release of game result information to the player devices such as by utilizing a broadcaster device also not separately shown in that transmits the time released game results to the player devices e.g. in accordance with the Transmission Control Protocol TCP and Internet Protocol IP suite of communications protocols TCP IP version 4 as defined by Transmission Control Protocol RFC 793 and or Internet Protocol RFC 791 Defense Advance Research Projects Agency DARPA published by the Information Sciences Institute University of Southern California J. Postel ed. September 1981 .

In some embodiments the game server cluster and or one or more of the game servers thereof may be in communication with the dynamic DB . According to some embodiments the dynamic DB may comprise a dynamically scalable database service such as the DyanmoDB service provided by Amazon Web Services LLC. The dynamic DB may for example store information specific to one or more certain game types e.g. bingo games provided by the game server cluster such as to allow permit and or facilitate reporting and or analysis of such information.

According to some embodiments the game server cluster and or one or more of the game servers thereof may be in communication with the cloud based cache cluster . Game state information from the game server cluster may be stored in the game state cache bingo state data e.g. the current state of spaces marked or unmarked of a player s bingo card history of called balls information about ball call order etc. may be stored in the bingo cache and or other game and or player information e.g. progressive data referral data player rankings audit data may be stored in the hydra cache . In some embodiments the cache persistor may move and or copy data stored in the cloud based cache cluster to the non relational DB . The non relational DB may for example comprise a SimpleDB service provided by Amazon Wed Services LLC. According to some embodiments the game server cluster may generally access the cloud based cache cluster as needed to store and or retrieve game related information. The data stored in the cloud based cache cluster may generally comprise a subset of the newest or freshest data while the cache persistor may archive and or store or move such data to the non relational DB as it ages and or becomes less relevant e.g. once a player logs off once a game session and or tournament ends . The game server cluster may in accordance with some embodiments have access to the non relational DB as needed and or desired. The game servers may for example be initialized with data from the non relational DB and or may store and or retrieve low frequency and or low priority data via the non relational DB

In some embodiments the SQS device may queue and or otherwise manage requests messages events and or other tasks or calls to and or from the server cluster . The SQS device may for example prioritize and or route requests between the game server cluster and the task scheduler . In some embodiments the SQS device may provide mini game and or tournament information to the server cluster . According to some embodiments the task scheduler may initiate communications with the SQS device the e mail service provider e.g. providing e mail lists the remote DB service e.g. providing inserts and or updates and or the persistence DB e.g. providing and or updating game player and or other reporting data e.g. in accordance with one or more schedules.

According to some embodiments the persistence DB may comprise a data store of live environment game and or player data. The game server cluster and or the task scheduler or SQS device may for example store game and or player data to the persistence DB and or may pull and or retrieve data from the persistence DB as needed and or desired. The server cluster may according to some embodiments provide and or retrieve spin and or other game event info and or configuration information via the persistence DB

In some embodiments the reporting DB may be created and or populated based on the persistence DB . On a scheduled and or other basis for example a data transformation and or mapping program may be utilized to pull data from the live environment e.g. the persistence DB into the reporting DB . The query service may then be utilized for example to query the reporting DB without taxing the live environment and or production system directly accessible by the game server cluster .

According to some embodiments any or all of the player devices in conjunction with one or more of the game servers and or the databases e.g. via the network may conduct in whole or in part facilitate and or otherwise be associated with execution of one or more stored procedures applications processes and or methods and or one or more portions and or combinations thereof as described in this disclosure.

Turning now to a block diagram of a system according to some embodiments is shown. In some embodiments the system may comprise and or define a front end architecture of a gaming platform such as a platform via which social multiplayer and or online games may be played e.g. one or more bingo games as described in this disclosure . In some embodiments the system may comprise a plurality of user devices a plurality of networks e.g. a primary service provider network a secondary service provider network a production network and or a VPN a plurality of routers a plurality of firewall devices a plurality of game servers e.g. web servers application servers messaging broker servers game broadcaster servers chat servers database servers and or management and monitoring servers and or an application delivery controller cluster .

According to some embodiments any or all of the components of the system may be similar in configuration and or functionality to any similarly named and or numbered components described in this disclosure. Fewer or more components and or portions thereof and or various configurations of the components may be included in the system without deviating from the scope of embodiments described in this disclosure. While multiple instances of some components are depicted and while single instances of other components are depicted for example any component depicted in the system may comprise a single device a combination of devices and or components and or a plurality of devices as is or becomes desirable and or practicable. Similarly in some embodiments one or more of the various components may not be needed and or desired in the system .

In some embodiments a first user device may comprise an electronic device owned and or operated by a player of an online game not explicitly shown and or by an entity that otherwise accesses online game content and or services externally e.g. requiring external login and or access credentials and or procedures . The first user device may for example be utilized to access content provided by and or via the application delivery controller cluster . In some embodiments the first user device may interface with and or connect to the production network via the primary service provider network and or the secondary service provider network . The primary service provider network and the secondary service provider network may for example load balance and or provide redundant coverage for outage recovery by utilization of a first primary service provider network router a second primary service provider network router a first secondary service provider network router and or a second secondary service provider network router .

According to some embodiments the application delivery controller cluster may be insulated and or protected from the production network by an external firewall cluster . The first user device may for example be required to provide credentials to and or otherwise access the application delivery controller cluster via the external firewall cluster

In some embodiments the application delivery controller cluster may receive via and or from the external firewall cluster and or the production network one or more requests calls transmissions and or commands from the first user device . The first user device may for example submit a call for an online gaming interface to the application delivery controller cluster . In some embodiments the application delivery controller cluster may comprise one or more hardware software and or firmware devices and or modules configured e.g. specially programmed to route events and or responses between the first user device and one or more of the servers . In the case that the first user device is utilized to access an online gaming interface for example one or more of the web servers e.g. that may provide graphical and or rendering elements for an interface and or other web services and or the application servers e.g. that may provide rule and or logic based programming routines elements and or functions e.g. game play engines may be called and or managed by the application delivery controller cluster .

In some embodiments the messaging broker servers may receive and or retrieve messages from the first user device and or from one or more of the other servers and perform one or more inter application processes in relation thereto. The messaging broker servers may for example route transform consolidate aggregate store augment and or otherwise process one or more requests in connection with provision of online gaming services to the first user device e.g. facilitating a decoupling of services provided by various applications on and or from the various servers . According to some embodiments the game broadcaster servers may provide scheduled releases of information descriptive of an online game. The game broadcaster servers may for example provide a broadcast feed of bingo numbers slot and or other random and or pseudo random number results that may be accessed by and or transmitted to the first user device e.g. in connection with the play of an online bingo slots and or other game for which broadcast information may be utilized . In some embodiments the chat servers may provide manage and or facilitate communications between the first user device and or first user thereof and one or more other player user devices such as a second user device and or other player user devices not shown in .

According to some embodiments the second user device may generally comprise an electronic device owned and or operated by a user not shown closely affiliated with an entity that operates the system such entity also not shown . An employee e.g. programmer and or Customer Service Representative CSR contractor and or other agent of an online gaming company may for example utilize the second user device to interface with the privately accessible VPN . The VPN may for example provide direct access to the application servers the database servers the management and monitoring servers and or the application delivery controller cluster . In some embodiments as depicted in such access may be gated through and or insulated or protected by an internal firewall cluster . The second user device may for example be required to provide credentials to and or otherwise access the application delivery controller cluster and or servers via the internal firewall cluster

In some embodiments the database servers may provide access to one or more databases and or data stores e.g. not shown in for data storage and or retrieval . In some embodiments the management and monitoring servers may provide services such as monitoring reporting troubleshooting analysis configuring etc. to the second user device . The second user device may for example access the management and monitoring servers and or the database servers to run reports descriptive of online gaming operations game play and or game referral setup management and or analysis. According to some embodiments either or both of the user devices in conjunction with one or more of the servers and or the application delivery controller cluster may conduct in whole or in part facilitate and or otherwise be associated with execution of one or more stored procedures applications processes and or methods and or one or more portions and or combinations thereof .

Utilization of the term server with respect to the servers of the system of is meant solely to ease description of the configuration and or functionality of the servers . The term server is not intended to be limiting with respect to any particular hardware software firmware and or quantities thereof utilized to implement any or all of the servers of the system . Similarly while multiple types and or instances of the servers are depicted in any or all of the servers may be implemented in on and or by one or multiple computer server and or other electronic devices.

Referring now to a block diagram of a system according to some embodiments is shown. In some embodiments the system may comprise and or define a front end architecture of a gaming platform such as a platform via which social multiplayer and or online games may be played e.g. one or more bingo games as described in this disclosure . The system may be similar in configuration and or functionality for example to the system of and or one or more portions thereof. In some embodiments the system may comprise a user device a plurality of networks and or environments and or layers e.g. the Internet a Distributed Denial of Service DDoS protection layer a primary transit provider layer a secondary transit provider layer a Pre Production PP environment a live environment a LAN a backend environment a PP backend layer and or a live backend layer a plurality of routers a plurality of firewall devices a plurality of servers e.g. a PP server cluster and or a live server cluster a plurality of switching devices a Terminal Concentrator TC a plurality of hydra services e.g. a PP hydra service and or a live hydra service and or a plurality of Power Distribution Unit PDU devices 

According to some embodiments any or all of the components of the system may be similar in configuration and or functionality to any similarly named and or numbered components described in this disclosure. Fewer or more components and or portions thereof and or various configurations of the components may be included in the system without deviating from the scope of embodiments described in this disclosure. While multiple instances of some components are depicted and while single instances of other components are depicted for example any component depicted in the system may comprise a single device a combination of devices and or components and or a plurality of devices as is or becomes desirable and or practicable. Similarly in some embodiments one or more of the various components may not be needed and or desired in the system .

In some embodiments the user device may be utilized to access one or more of the PP environment the live environment and or the backend environment via the Internet . In some embodiments the user device may be utilized to access the backend environment and or the PP hydra service via the PP backend layer . A PP backend switch device and or a PP backend firewall device may for example gate and or control access to the backend environment and or the PP hydra service via the PP backend layer . In some embodiments the user device may be utilized to access the backend environment and or the live hydra service via the live backend layer . A live backend switch device and or a live backend firewall device may for example gate and or control access to the backend environment and or the live hydra service via the live backend layer

According to some embodiments any communications e.g. requests calls and or messages from the user device may be passed through the DDoS protection layer . The DDoS protection layer may for example monitor and or facilitate protection against various forms of cyber attacks including but not limited to DDoS attacks. In some embodiments the DDoS protection layer may comprise and or be in communication with a plurality of DDoS router devices that may be utilized to route and or direct incoming communications e.g. from the user device to appropriate portions of the system .

In some embodiments the DDoS protection layer and or a first DDoS router device may route communications from the user device through and or via a first switch device and or to through and or via a first primary transit provider router device . In some embodiments the first switch device may comprise a device utilized for security switching such as may implement communications in accordance with the Generic Routing Encapsulation GRE communications tunneling protocol described in RFC 2784 Generic Routing Encapsulation GRE published by the Network Working Group NWG in March 2000. The first primary transit provider router device may for example provide access to the PP environment and or the PP server cluster thereof such as via one or more PP firewall devices and or one or more PP switch devices . According to some embodiments the PP switch devices may comprise content switching devices that process and route data e.g. in the data link layer based on data content. In some embodiments the first primary transit provider router device may direct communications to through and or via a PP LAN switch device that provides and or facilitates access to the LAN . The LAN may for example provide private access to and or between the PP environment the live environment and or the backend environment . In some embodiments the first primary transit provider router device and or the PP LAN switch device may direct communications to through and or via a LAN firewall device that provides direct access to either or both of the PP server cluster and the live server cluster

According to some embodiments the DDoS protection layer and or a second DDoS router device may route communications from the user device through and or via a second switch device and or to through and or via a first secondary transit provider router device . In some embodiments the second switch device may comprise a device utilized for security switching such as may implement communications in accordance with the GRE communications tunneling protocol described in RFC 2784 Generic Routing Encapsulation GRE published by the Network Working Group NWG in March 2000. The first secondary transit provider router device may for example provide access to the live environment and or the live server cluster thereof such as via one or more live firewall devices and or one or more live switch devices . According to some embodiments the live switch devices may comprise content switching devices that process and route data e.g. in the data link layer based on data content. In some embodiments the first secondary transit provider router device may direct communications to through and or via a live LAN switch device that provides and or facilitates access to the LAN . In some embodiments the first secondary transit provider router device and or the live LAN switch device may direct communications to through and or via the LAN firewall device that provides direct access to either or both of the PP server cluster and the live server cluster

In some embodiments the DDoS protection layer and or one or more of a third DDoS router device and or a fourth DDoS router device may route communications from the user device through and or via one or more of the primary transit provider layer and or the secondary transit provider layer . In some embodiments a transit provider switch device may direct swap route and or manage communications between the primary transit provider layer and the secondary transit provider layer . According to some embodiments the transit provider switch device may comprise a switching device that operates in accordance with an Exterior Border Gateway Protocol EBGP e.g. the transit provider switch device may comprise one or more edge or border routers. In some embodiments the first primary transit provider router device the first secondary transit provider router device a second primary transit provider router device and or a second secondary transit provider router device may be utilized to route and or direct communications between i the primary transit provider layer and or the secondary transit provider layer and ii the PP environment and or the live environment

According to some embodiments the PP server cluster and or the PP environment may comprise various hardware software and or firmware that permits a user e.g. of the user device to program edit manage and or otherwise interface with PP game elements and or interfaces e.g. for development and or testing purposes . In some embodiments the PDU devices may generally provide power distribution supply management backup and or conditioning services e.g. to the PP server cluster as is or becomes desired. According to some embodiments additional switch devices may be utilized to distribute balance manage and or control communications to from and or within the PP server cluster

In some embodiments the live server cluster and or the live environment may comprise various hardware software and or firmware that permits a user e.g. of the user device to program edit manage and or otherwise interface with live game elements and or interfaces e.g. for troubleshooting corrective and or live environment management purposes . In some embodiments the PDU devices may generally provide power distribution supply management backup and or conditioning services e.g. to the live server cluster as is or becomes desired. According to some embodiments additional switch devices may be utilized to distribute balance manage and or control communications to from and or within the live server cluster . In some embodiments the TC device may be utilized to manage communications from a variety of data sources such as by providing communication capability between various communications channels not separately depicted in .

According to some embodiments the user device in conjunction with the live server cluster e.g. via the Internet may conduct in whole or in part facilitate and or otherwise be associated with execution of one or more stored procedures applications processes and or methods and or one or more portions and or combinations thereof as described in this disclosure.

Turning to a block diagram of a system according to some embodiments is shown. In some embodiments the system may comprise and or define a back end architecture of a gaming platform such as a platform via which social multiplayer and or online games may be played e.g. one or more bingo games as described in this disclosure . The system may be utilized in conjunction with the systems if and or in this disclosure for example and or may be similar in configuration and or functionality to the backend environment of the system of . In some embodiments the system may comprise a user device a plurality of networks and or environments and or layers e.g. the Internet an ISP an External Firewall Router EXTFW RTR Virtual LAN VLAN an Internet VLAN an Internal External INT EXT VLAN a web VLAN a database VLAN an application VLAN and or an administrator VLAN an external router cluster a plurality of firewall clusters e.g. an external firewall cluster and or an internal firewall cluster a plurality of servers e.g. a server cluster a first spare server pool a second spare server pool database servers hydra servers game controllers ruby servers admin servers monitoring servers and or logging servers a plurality of switches e.g. content switches Storage Area Network SAN switches connectivity switches and or network switches a TC device a SAN storage device and or one or more PDU devices .

According to some embodiments any or all of the components of the system may be similar in configuration and or functionality to any similarly named and or numbered components described in this disclosure. Fewer or more components and or portions thereof and or various configurations of the components may be included in the system without deviating from the scope of embodiments described in this disclosure. While multiple instances of some components are depicted and while single instances of other components are depicted for example any component depicted in the system may comprise a single device a combination of devices and or components and or a plurality of devices as is or becomes desirable and or practicable. Similarly in some embodiments one or more of the various components may not be needed and or desired in the system .

In some embodiments the user device may be utilized to access and or interface with one or more of the servers via the Internet . In some embodiments the Internet may be linked to the ISP via multiple e.g. redundant connectivity paths e.g. for load balancing security and or failure recovery . According to some embodiments the ISP may be in communication with and or comprise the external router cluster . The external router cluster may route certain requests calls and or transmissions and or users e.g. based on credentials and or other information through the EXTFW RTR VLAN and or through the external firewall cluster for example and or may route certain requests calls and or transmissions and or users e.g. based on credentials and or other information through the Internet VLAN and or through the internal firewall cluster

In the case that a user not shown of the user device comprises an online game player consumer and or other member of the public for example the external router cluster may direct communications through the EXTFW RTR VLAN and or through the external firewall cluster . In the case that the user of the user device comprises a programmer tester employee and or other agent of an entity that operates the system for example the external router cluster may direct communications through the Internet VLAN and or through the internal firewall cluster . In some embodiments access via either or both of the external firewall cluster and or the internal firewall cluster may permit the user device to communicate via the INT EXT VLAN . The INT EXT VLAN may for example provide access to the content switches which may in some embodiments serve content from any or all of the servers to the user device as is or becomes appropriate or desired. In some embodiments the content switches may communicate with the first spare server pool via the web LAN

According to some embodiments private and or other specialized access to the system via the internal firewall cluster may permit the user device to communicate via one or more of the database VLAN the application VLAN and or the admin VLAN . The database VLAN may be utilized for example to access and or communicate with the database servers . In some embodiments the application VLAN may be utilized to access and or communicate with any or all of the hydra servers the game controllers and or the ruby servers

The admin VLAN may allow promote conduct facilitate and or manage a wide variety of communications within the system . The admin VLAN may for example communicatively connect and or couple any or all of the firewalls the servers the switches the TC device the SAN storage and or the PDU devices . The user device may be utilized in conjunction with the admin servers and or via the admin VLAN for example to define edit adjust manage and or otherwise access settings and or data of the firewalls any or all of the switches the TC device and or the PDU devices . In some embodiments the user device and or the admin servers may be utilized to manage and or access content rules settings and or performance characteristics or preferences for any or all of the servers 

In some embodiments the server cluster may comprise one or more servers and or other electronic controller devices e.g. blade servers configured to provide online gaming data e.g. interfaces outcomes and or results to the user device . According to some embodiments the first spare server pool and or the second spare server pool may comprise one or more server and or other electronic controller devices configured to supplement and or replace the server cluster as needed and or desired e.g. to manage load and or error recovery situations . In some embodiments the database servers may provide and or manage access to stored data such as data stored in and or by the SAN storage device . In some embodiments the hydra servers and or the game controllers may provide online game information such as interfaces results graphics sounds and or other media to the user device e.g. via the application VLAN . In some embodiments the ruby servers may comprise one or more processing devices configured to provide access to one or more programming languages e.g. Ruby and or Application Programming Interface API mechanisms via which the servers and or other portions of the system may be configured to operate e.g. in accordance with specially and or pre programmed instructions written in the programming language and or developed by the API provided by the ruby servers . According to some embodiments the admin servers the monitoring servers and or the logging servers may be utilized and or configured to provide administrative parameter and or metric monitoring and or reporting and or data logging and or audit services respectively.

According to some embodiments the user device in conjunction with one or more of the servers e.g. via the Internet may conduct in whole or in part facilitate and or otherwise be associated with execution of one or more stored procedures applications processes and or methods and or one or more portions and or combinations thereof as described in this disclosure.

Turning to a block diagram of an apparatus according to some embodiments is shown. In some embodiments the apparatus may be similar in configuration and or functionality to any of the player and or user devices and or the servers and or controller devices of and or in this disclosure and or may otherwise comprise a portion of the systems of and or in this disclosure. The apparatus may for example execute process facilitate and or otherwise be associated with the methods described in this disclosure. In some embodiments the apparatus may comprise a processing device an input device an output device a communication device a memory device and or a cooling device . According to some embodiments any or all of the components of the apparatus may be similar in configuration and or functionality to any similarly named and or numbered components described in this disclosure. Fewer or more components and or various configurations of the components may be included in the apparatus without deviating from the scope of embodiments described in this disclosure.

According to some embodiments the processing device may be or include any type quantity and or configuration of electronic and or computerized processor that is or becomes known. The processing device may comprise for example an Intel IXP 2800 network processor or an Intel XEON Processor coupled with an Intel E7501 chipset. In some embodiments the processing device may comprise multiple inter connected processors microprocessors and or micro engines. According to some embodiments the processing device and or the apparatus and or portions thereof may be supplied power via a power supply not shown such as a battery an Alternating Current AC source a Direct Current DC source an AC DC adapter solar cells and or an inertial generator. In the case that the apparatus comprises a server such as a blade server necessary power may be supplied via a standard AC outlet power strip surge protector a PDU and or Uninterruptible Power Supply UPS device.

In some embodiments the input device and or the output device are communicatively coupled to the processing device e.g. via wired and or wireless connections and or pathways and they may generally comprise any types or configurations of input and output components and or devices that are or become known respectively. The input device may comprise for example a keyboard that allows an operator of the apparatus to interface with the apparatus e.g. by a player such as to participate in an online game session as described in this disclosure . In some embodiments the input device may comprise a sensor configured to provide information such as player information to the apparatus and or the processing device . The output device may according to some embodiments comprise a display screen and or other practicable output component and or device. The output device may for example provide a game interface not explicitly shown in to a player e.g. via a website . According to some embodiments the input device and or the output device may comprise and or be embodied in a single device such as a touch screen monitor.

In some embodiments the communication device may comprise any type or configuration of communication device that is or becomes known or practicable. The communication device may for example comprise a network interface card NIC a telephonic device a cellular network device a router a hub a modem and or a communications port or cable. In some embodiments the communication device may be coupled to provide data to a player device not shown in such as in the case that the apparatus is utilized to provide a game interface to a player as described in this disclosure. The communication device may for example comprise a cellular telephone network transmission device that sends signals indicative of game interface components to customer and or subscriber handheld mobile and or telephone device. According to some embodiments the communication device may also or alternatively be coupled to the processing device . In some embodiments the communication device may comprise an IR RF Bluetooth and or Wi Fi network device coupled to facilitate communications between the processing device and another device such as a player device and or a third party device .

The memory device may comprise any appropriate information storage device that is or becomes known or available including but not limited to units and or combinations of magnetic storage devices e.g. a hard disk drive optical storage devices and or semiconductor memory devices such as RAM devices Read Only Memory ROM devices Single Data Rate Random Access Memory SDR RAM Double Data Rate Random Access Memory DDR RAM and or Programmable Read Only Memory PROM . The memory device may according to some embodiments store one or more of game instructions and or interface instructions . In some embodiments the game instructions and or the interface instructions may be utilized by the processing device to provide output information via the output device and or the communication device .

According to some embodiments the game instructions may be operable to cause the processing device to process player data and or game data . Player data and or game data received via the input device and or the communication device may for example be processed by the processing device in accordance with the game instructions .

In some embodiments the interface instructions may be operable to cause the processing device to process player data and or game data . Player data and or game data received via the input device and or the communication device may for example be processed by the processing device in accordance with the interface instructions . In some embodiments player data and or game data may be fed by the processing device through one or more mathematical and or statistical formulas and or models in accordance with the interface instructions to provide one or more game interfaces in accordance with embodiments described in this disclosure e.g. displaying or otherwise transmitting information about one or more bingo symbols called bingo numbers and or winning combinations of bingo symbols .

Any or all of the exemplary instructions and data types described in this disclosure and other practicable types of data may be stored in any number type and or configuration of memory devices that is or becomes known. The memory device may for example comprise one or more data tables or files databases table spaces registers and or other storage structures. In some embodiments multiple databases and or storage structures and or multiple memory devices may be utilized to store information associated with the apparatus . According to some embodiments the memory device may be incorporated into and or otherwise coupled to the apparatus e.g. as shown or may simply be accessible to the apparatus e.g. externally located and or situated .

In some embodiments the apparatus may comprise a cooling device . According to some embodiments the cooling device may be coupled physically thermally and or electrically to the processing device and or to the memory device . The cooling device may for example comprise a fan heat sink heat pipe radiator cold plate and or other cooling component or device or combinations thereof configured to remove heat from portions or components of the apparatus .

One or more of various types of data storage devices may be used in accordance with one or more embodiments discussed in this disclosure. A data storage device may for example be utilized to store instructions and or data such as the instructions and or data described in reference to one or more of the example computing devices in this disclosure. One or more types and or combinations of data storage devices may generally store program instructions code and or modules that when executed by a processing device cause a particular machine to function in accordance with one or more embodiments described in this disclosure. In some embodiments instructions stored on a data storage device may when executed by a processor such as a processor device described in this disclosure with respect to one or more computing devices cause the implementation of and or facilitate the any of the methods and or portions or combinations of such methods described in this disclosure. The following descriptions of some example types of data storage devices are representative of a class and or subset of computer readable media that are defined in this disclosure as computer readable memory e.g. non transitory memory devices as opposed to transmission devices or media .

According to some embodiments a data storage device may comprise one or more various types of internal and or external hard drives. The data storage device may for example comprise a data storage medium that is read interrogated and or otherwise communicatively coupled to and or via a disk reading device. In some embodiments the data storage device and or the data storage medium may be configured to store information utilizing one or more magnetic inductive and or optical means e.g. magnetic inductive and or optical encoding . The data storage medium may comprise one or more of a polymer layer a magnetic data storage layer a non magnetic layer a magnetic base layer a contact layer and or a substrate layer. According to some embodiments a magnetic read head may be coupled and or disposed to read data from the magnetic data storage layer.

In some embodiments a data storage medium may comprise a plurality of data points disposed with the data storage medium. The data points may in some embodiments be read and or otherwise interfaced with via a laser enabled read head disposed and or coupled to direct a laser beam through the data storage medium.

In some embodiments a data storage device may comprise a CD CD ROM DVD Blu Ray Disc and or other type of optically encoded disk and or other storage medium that is or becomes know or practicable. In some embodiments a data storage device may comprise a USB keyfob dongle and or other type of flash memory data storage device that is or becomes know or practicable. In some embodiments a data storage device may comprise RAM of any type quantity and or configuration that is or becomes practicable and or desirable. In some embodiments a data storage device may comprise an off chip cache such as a Level 2 L2 cache memory device. According to some embodiments a data storage device may comprise an on chip memory device such as a Level 1 L1 cache memory device.

The terms computer readable medium and computer readable memory refer to any medium that participates in providing data e.g. instructions that may be read by a computer and or a processor. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and other specific types of transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory. Volatile media include DRAM which typically constitutes the main memory. Other types of transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a system bus coupled to the processor.

Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM Digital Video Disc DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EEPROM a USB memory stick a dongle any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The terms computer readable medium and or tangible media specifically exclude signals waves and wave forms or other intangible or transitory media that may nevertheless be readable by a computer.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying sequences of instructions to a processor. For example sequences of instruction i may be delivered from RAM to a processor ii may be carried over a wireless transmission medium and or iii may be formatted according to numerous formats standards or protocols. For a more exhaustive list of protocols the term network is defined above and includes many exemplary protocols that are also applicable in this disclosure.

In some embodiments one or more specialized machines such as a computerized processing device a server a remote terminal and or a customer device may implement the various practices described in this disclosure. A computer system of a gaming entity may for example comprise various specialized computers that interact to provide for online games as described in this disclosure.

According to some embodiments processes described in this disclosure may be performed and or implemented by and or otherwise associated with one or more specialized and or computerized processing devices e.g. the player and or user devices and or the servers and or controller devices of and or in this disclosure specialized computers computer terminals computer servers computer systems and or networks and or any combinations thereof e.g. by one or more online game providers and or online gaming player processing devices . In some embodiments methods may be embodied in facilitated by and or otherwise associated with various input mechanisms and or interfaces.

Any processes described in this disclosure do not necessarily imply a fixed order to any depicted actions steps and or procedures and embodiments may generally be performed in any order that is practicable unless otherwise and specifically noted. Any of the processes and or methods described in this disclosure may be performed and or facilitated by hardware software including microcode firmware or any combination thereof. For example a storage medium e.g. a hard disk Universal Serial Bus USB mass storage device and or Digital Video Disk DVD may store thereon instructions that when executed by a machine such as a computerized processing device result in performance according to any one or more of the embodiments described in this disclosure.

Referring now to a flow diagram of a method according to some embodiments is shown. The method may be performed for example by a server computer e.g. a game server . It should be noted that although some of the steps of method may be described as being performed by a server computer while other steps are described as being performed by another computing device any and all of the steps may be performed by a single computing device which may be a mobile device desktop computer or another computing device. Further any steps described herein as being performed by a particular computing device may in some embodiments be performed by a human or another computing device as appropriate.

According to some embodiments the method may comprise determining a first state of a bingo space at and determining a second state of the bingo space at . In some embodiments determining a state of the bingo space may comprise determining one or more of i whether a bingo space is daubed or undaubed ii whether the bingo space has been acted on and or affected by a special function of a special ball iii whether the bingo space has a special daub e.g. a special daub used to mark the bingo space when daubed based on a special function and or iv whether a current state e.g. a second state is different than a previous state e.g. a first state . According to some embodiments determining the second state of the bingo space may comprise one or more of i determining the second state after determining the first state ii determining the second state after a ball call and or iii determining the second state after applying a special function to the bingo space.

According to some embodiments the method may further comprise determining a function e.g. a special function associated with a special ball to apply to the bingo space at and determining a third state of the bingo space at e.g. based on applying a special function . According to some embodiments the method may further comprise determining a game result based on the third state of the bingo space at .

According to one example determining a first state of a bingo space may comprise determining that a bingo space is not marked e.g. at the beginning of a game . Determining a second state of the bingo space may comprise determining that the bingo space is marked for example after being daubed by a standard ball and or a first special ball. Determining a function to apply to the bingo space may comprise for example determining a special function associated with a special ball and determining the third state may comprise determining the effect of the special function applied to the bingo space e.g. determining that the bingo space has been undaubed by a special ball determining that the bingo space has been marked with a special daub and or determining that the bingo space is immune to or otherwise unaffected by the special function . Determining the game result may comprise determining whether the third state of the bingo space e.g. whether the bingo space is marked or unmarked contributes to a winning bingo pattern and or determining whether any special daubs may qualify the player to win a prize.

Any or all of the methods described in this disclosure may involve one or more interfaces. One or more of such methods may include in some embodiments providing an interface by and or through which a user may play a bingo game. Although certain types of information are illustrated in the example interfaces those skilled in the art will understand that the interfaces may be modified in order to provide for additional types of information and or to remove some of the illustrated types of information as deemed desirable for a particular implementation.

The following describes some examples of special balls for use in bingo games and their respective attributes in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention.

According to one embodiment a special ball is associated with a special function if a bingo space corresponding to a number associated with the special ball is daubed e.g. automatically or by a player in addition to that space being daubed at least one additional unmarked bingo space e.g. on one or more bingo cards is also daubed. In one embodiment the additional bingo space daubed by the special ball is adjacent to the space matching the ball s number. Alternatively or in addition the special function of the special ball may daub any unmarked bingo space e.g. randomly selected from any one or more bingo cards .

In one embodiment two or more unmarked spaces may be marked in the same row column and or along a diagonal of a bingo card e.g. starting at a space adjacent to the bingo space corresponding to a number of the special ball . In one implementation a special ball acts as an expanding wild daubing additional bingo spaces travelling in one or more directions from the original marked square marking all the numbers along the path s until an edge of the bingo card is reached. The direction s in which additional spaces are marked may be predetermined and or determined at random and could potentially be horizontal vertical and or diagonal. According to some embodiments the succession of additional free daubs in the direction of travel may be halted by one or more types of bingo spaces e.g. the center square a square previously marked in standard play a square previously affected and or marked by a special ball 

According to one embodiment a special ball is associated with a special function if a bingo space corresponding to a number associated with the special ball is daubed e.g. automatically or by a player at least one other marked bingo space is undaubed. In one example if a player daubs the associated number on one of his bingo cards an animated Bad Luck Ball appears moves to a currently marked bingo space e.g. selected at random and unmarks it. In one embodiment a player may re mark any bingo space undaubed as a result of a special ball function. The special action may be applied on more than one bingo card for example if the player has the associated number on more than one card.

Referring to an example bingo game interface depicts an example of play of a bingo game including a special ball having an associated special function that undaubs one or more previously marked bingo spaces on a bingo card. As depicted in the example game interface includes a bingo game space including a bingo card more than one bingo card may be used in accordance with some embodiments having marked bingo spaces 49 and 23 and a bingo button for calling Bingo for the bingo card . An optional visible ball queue includes a representation of a sequence of balls that could be called for the bingo game including an indicated special ball and a called ball history includes representations of bingo balls previously called for the bingo game. According to the example game play depicted in a special ball depicted at is called and a player daubs unmarked bingo space 46 which matches the number of the special ball .

As depicted in in response to the 46 being daubed as indicated at bingo space an animated sequence including representations and of the special ball moving from the daubed bingo space to the daubed bingo space . As depicted in the represented daub of bingo space is shown as being removed or destroyed e.g. the game interface displays an animated sequence of the daub being cleared . As depicted in as a result of the special action of the special ball a player may want to re daub bingo space using an input device e.g. as represented by pointer .

According to one embodiment a special ball is associated with a special function if the special ball is called the special function obscures one or more of the bingo cards of one or more players e.g. for a configurable number of ball calls for a configurable period of time . For example the bingo game interface may appear blurrier darker and or brighter so that it is harder for the player to discern one or more elements of the game interface such as one or more bingo cards bingo spaces on the bingo cards balls in a visible ball queue messages e.g. from a chat function a bingo button for calling bingo and the like. In some embodiments the special function may create a visual whiteout blackout or flash effect e.g. by oversaturating the display with white and or reducing the visual contrast between different visual elements . In some embodiments the bingo game interface may remove replace overlay and or cover one or more elements of the bingo game so that they cannot be seen or are more difficult to see. As the effect of this special function may persist over one or more subsequent ball calls this type of special ball may be described as having a persistent effect e.g. the bingo game interface is obscured for more than one ball call and the bingo cards become more visible each time a bingo ball is called .

Referring to an example bingo game interface depicts an example of play of a bingo game including a special Dazzle ball having an associated special function that modifies the bingo game interface to make one or more elements of the bingo game interface more difficult to see. As depicted in the example game interface includes a bingo game space including a bingo card more than one bingo card may be used in accordance with some embodiments and a bingo button . An optional visible ball queue includes a representation of a sequence of balls that could be called for the bingo game and a called ball history includes representations of bingo balls previously called for the bingo game. Bingo spaces and have been daubed. According to the example game play a Dazzle ball depicted at is called. Upon being called the Dazzle ball initiates an animated sequence depicting a bingo ball character taking a photo. This triggers a blinding flash of light over the cards of the player e.g. as if the player were temporarily blinded by a camera flash as depicted in in which the example bingo game interface has been modified so that the outlines of some of the visual game elements are intentionally more difficult to see e.g. the lines defining the bingo card and bingo numbers are fainter . As depicted in the animated light effect begins to clear a little e.g. each time a ball is called until full visibility is restored e.g. after a pre configured number of ball calls as depicted in .

According to one embodiment a special ball which may be referred to in this disclosure by way of non limiting example as a Wipeout ball is associated with a special function if a bingo card has a winning or bingo status e.g. a winning bingo pattern has been achieved and a player has called bingo the special function clears the bingo status. In one embodiment any marked bingo spaces e.g. that completed a winning bingo pattern remain even if the bingo status is cleared. In one embodiment the Wipeout ball may clear a leaderboard or other status information display of bingos already called for the player. In some embodiments the Wipeout ball may affect more than one player e.g. in an on line bingo game room . According to one example the Wipeout Ball is not associated with any bingo number.

In one or more embodiments when a Wipeout ball is called it triggers an animated sequence e.g. via a bingo game interface of a wave covering at least a portion of the bingo game and or washing out any indicated bingo status for one or more player bingo cards. In one embodiment players then have to click a BINGO button on their cards e.g. as quickly as possible in order to regain the bingo status and or to regain a place on a leaderboard tracking bingo wins.

Referring to an example bingo game interface depicts an example of play of a bingo game including a special ball having an associated special function that removes the bingo status of one or more bingo cards. As depicted in the example game interface includes a bingo game space including a bingo card more than one bingo card may be used in accordance with some embodiments . An optional visible ball queue includes a representation of a sequence of balls that could be called for the bingo game and a called ball history includes representations of bingo balls previously called for the bingo game. According to the example game play a Wipeout ball depicted at is called while the bingo card has a status of Bingo e.g. the player achieved a winning diagonal pattern and called Bingo using a Bingo button not shown . For example the Wipeout ball may have moved out of visible ball queue .

As depicted in in response to the Wipeout ball being called the game interface displays an animated sequence of a wave washing over at least a portion of the game. As depicted in as a result of the special action of the Wipeout ball the previous bingo status for the bingo card has been cleared e.g. reset to a non ningo status . For example although the card still includes a winning bingo pattern the previously established bingo status as shown in has been removed. In order to regain the Bingo status a player may have to actuate a bingo button or other interface element using an input device e.g. as represented by pointer in order to again call Bingo for the card.

It will be readily understood that a bingo space on a bingo card may be daubed or not. Accordingly a given bingo space may be described as having an associated state for example of daubed or not daubed . The state of one or more spaces of a bingo card may be stored for example in a data storage device for use in tracking a player s progress in a bingo game for determining when a player may qualify for a winning bingo pattern etc.

According to some embodiments as discussed in this disclosure some types of special functions associated with one or more special balls may provide for one or more additional or free daubs e.g. in addition to any daub corresponding to a number of a special ball . In some embodiments a bingo space daubed by a special ball may be described as having a special daub and an indication of the special daub status may be stored e.g. in a data storage device in association with the bingo space. A special daub status associated with a bingo space may include an indication of what type of special ball provided the daub e.g. Coconut daub Mirror daub and this information may be used in accordance with some embodiments to determine one or more combined and or persistent effects with respect to the bingo space e.g. based on one or more later ball calls . Also according to some embodiments some types of special balls may mark bingo spaces with special daubs to provide a player with a visual indication of the special function and or possible persistent effect of the special function. According to some embodiments if a second subsequent special bingo ball and or its effect interacts with a bingo space previously marked by a first special ball e.g. with a first special daub one or more additional free daubs and or other types of rewards may be provided to the player and or one or more effects may be created based on the interaction or combined effects of the first and second special balls.

In one example of a persistent effect of a special ball and or of a special daub when a number corresponding to a special Coconut ball is daubed the special ball also drops coconuts on three 3 nearby spots to mark them. The special Coconut daubs may have one or more persistent effects. In one embodiment the special Coconut daub marker will remain on the squares the coconuts fell onto e.g. instead of being marked with a standard daub mark . In one embodiment calling Bingo on a ticket allows the player to crack open any of the special Coconut daubs open e.g. for additional prizes . In one embodiment Coconut daubs may be safe from any adverse effects of other special balls such as a special ball that removes previous daubs. In some embodiments if a number previously daubed by a special ball is called e.g. 52 was daubed by a falling coconut and then at a later time a standard 52 ball is called and enters play that special daub reveals an additional prize. In one or more embodiments if a number previously daubed by a special daub comes up that special daub may award one or more additional daubs e.g. a special Coconut daub sprouts a new palm tree and deposits one or more new Coconut daubs .

According to some embodiments utilizing a persistent and or combined effect of special balls a bingo space is daubed based on a first special ball. For example a bingo space corresponding to the number of a special ball may be daubed or a bingo space may be daubed based on a special function of a special ball e.g. the special ball daubs one or more additional bingo spaces . As discussed in this disclosure a space daubed based on a special ball may receive a special daub e.g. a different type of daub mark may be used to distinguish the marked space visually from spaces marked by standard ball calls and or by other types of special balls . The special daub may be described as a having a persistent effect if the special daub status effects play of the bingo game at least with respect to that space later in the game. In one example when a later special ball is applied to the same bingo space that has the previous special daub the effect of applying the special function of the later special ball may be determined based on the previous special daub and or the previous special function applied to that space. In one example a bingo space with a special daub may be immune from the special function of a later special ball that would normally have undaubed that bingo space. In another example a bingo space marked with a special daub may affect the special function of a later special ball by causing the later special function to effect one or more other bingo spaces e.g. by deflecting and or multiplying the effect onto adjacent bingo spaces . For example when a Mirror ball daub is in a path of a laser effect from a special Laser ball that daubs multiple spaces along the path the laser travels the laser may be reflected by the Mirror ball daub marking one or more additional free daubs along another row column and or diagonal.

Referring to an example bingo game interface depicts an example of play of a bingo game including persistent special ball effects and combined effects of special balls. As depicted in the example game interface includes a bingo game space including a bingo card more than one bingo card may be used in accordance with some embodiments . An optional visible ball queue includes a representation of a sequence of balls that could be called for the bingo game including a special ball and a called ball history includes representations of bingo balls previously called for the bingo game. A bingo button is provided to allow a player to call Bingo for the bingo card . According to the example game play a standard ball B14 was called most recently as depicted at . Also according to the example game play depicted in bingo spaces and were marked previously e.g. using standard daubs bingo space has been marked with a first special daub an example Coconut daub and bingo space has been marked with a second special daub an example Mirror Ball daub .

Specifically as depicted in the examples of game play in and the laser splits the special Coconut daub to reveal a prize daub at bingo space . In some embodiments a prize corresponding to a prize daub may be rewarded to the player for example immediately on being revealed on completion of a game upon the daub being included in winning bingo pattern upon the player calling bingo and or at the end of a bingo game or session. As depicted in the example game play has resulted in daubing the 66 bingo space and five additional spaces e.g. including being daubed based on the combination of the example special Laser function with the example special Mirror Ball function or daub and example special Coconut ball function or daub .

According to one embodiment a special ball is associated with a special function if called and or if a bingo space corresponding to a number associated with the special ball is daubed e.g. automatically or by a player the player may receive one or more rewards prizes cash virtual tokens and or virtual currency for use on a gaming platform and or bingo game.

In some embodiments a bingo game may be associated with tokens or other type of in game currency that may be used for example to be awarded prizes. Accordingly in some embodiments a special ball may award one or more such tokens when called thereby given the player additional chances to win prizes.

In some embodiments a bingo game may be associated with one or more powerup actions that a player may use during play e.g. initiated by the player clicking on an associated interface button and not by any special ball . In one embodiment a powerup may be associated with a meter that increases and or decreases in value based on time played and or certain game events. When the powerup meter reaches a predetermined level for example the player may use the special action associated with the powerup. In some embodiments a special ball may be associated with a special action that increases or decreases a powerup meter corresponding to one or more powerups e.g. in order to decrease the amount of time it would have otherwise taken for the meter to reach a predetermined level for use .

According to one embodiment a special ball is associated with a special function that provides a particular benefit if a bingo space corresponding to a number associated with the special ball is daubed e.g. automatically or by a player a player may receive the benefit that a timer for a tournament format is temporarily paused and or time on the timer is increased . In one example if a player correctly marks the number of a special Freeze ball in a bingo tournament the corresponding special action stops the player s tournament play clock for a predetermined period of time e.g. 10 seconds .

According to one embodiment a special ball is associated with a special function that provides a particular benefit if called and or if a bingo space corresponding to a number associated with the special ball is daubed e.g. automatically or by a player a player may receive the benefit that a score earned by the player e.g. in a bingo tournament format may be multiplied. In one example when a Double Up ball is called the Double Up ball jumps on to the player s score and doubles it.

According to one embodiment a special ball is associated with a special function that provides a particular benefit if called and or if a bingo space corresponding to a number associated with the special ball is daubed e.g. automatically or by a player the special function provides a pause or break in the calling of balls e.g. for a predetermined period of time . For example the bingo game may take a longer time to call the next ball than normal which may allow a player to catch up on daubing balls that were previously called but which the player may have missed.

While some embodiments described in this disclosure may make advantageous use of the visible ball queue by including one or more special balls special balls are not required to be used with a visible ball queue and no individual special ball is required to validate the advantages of the visible ball queue functionality.

Numerous embodiments are described in this patent application and are presented for illustrative purposes only. The described embodiments are not and are not intended to be limiting. The presently disclosed invention s are widely applicable to numerous embodiments as is readily apparent from the disclosure. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the disclosed invention s may be practiced with various modifications and alterations such as structural logical software and electrical modifications. Although particular features of the disclosed invention s may be described with reference to one or more particular embodiments and or drawings it should be understood that such features are not limited to usage in the one or more particular embodiments or drawings with reference to which they are described unless expressly specified otherwise.

The present disclosure is neither a literal description of all embodiments of the invention nor a listing of features of the invention that must be present in all embodiments. It is contemplated however that while some embodiment are not limited by the examples provided herein some embodiments may be specifically bounded or limited by provided examples structures method steps and or sequences. Embodiments having scopes limited by provided examples may also specifically exclude features not explicitly described or contemplated.

Neither the Title set forth at the beginning of the first page of this patent application nor the Abstract set forth at the end of this patent application is to be taken as limiting in any way the scope of the disclosed invention s .

The term product means any machine manufacture and or composition of matter as contemplated by 35 U.S.C. 101 unless expressly specified otherwise.

The terms an embodiment embodiment embodiments the embodiment the embodiments one or more embodiments some embodiments one embodiment and the like mean one or more but not all disclosed embodiments unless expressly specified otherwise.

A reference to another embodiment in describing an embodiment does not imply that the referenced embodiment is mutually exclusive with another embodiment e.g. an embodiment described before the referenced embodiment unless expressly specified otherwise. Similarly any reference to an alternate alternative and or alternate embodiment is intended to connote one or more possible variations not mutual exclusivity. In other words it is expressly contemplated that alternatives described herein may be utilized and or implemented together unless they inherently are incapable of being utilized together.

The terms including comprising and variations thereof mean including but not limited to unless expressly specified otherwise.

The term herein means in the present application including the specification its claims and figures and anything which may be incorporated by reference unless expressly specified otherwise.

The phrase at least one of when such phrase modifies a plurality of things such as an enumerated list of things means any combination of one or more of those things unless expressly specified otherwise. For example the phrase at least one of a widget a car and a wheel means i a widget ii a car iii a wheel iv a widget and a car v a widget and a wheel vi a car and a wheel or vii a widget a car and a wheel.

The phrase based on does not mean based only on unless expressly specified otherwise. In other words the phrase based on describes both based only on and based at least on . In some embodiments a first thing being based on a second thing refers specifically to the first thing taking into account the second thing in an explicit manner. In such embodiments for example a processing step based on the local weather which itself is in some manner based on or affected by for example human activity in the rainforests is not based on such human activities because it is not those activities that being explicitly analyzed included taken into account and or processed.

The term whereby is used herein only to precede a clause or other set of words that express only the intended result objective or consequence of something that is previously and explicitly recited. Thus when the term whereby is used in a claim the clause or other words that the term whereby modifies do not establish specific further limitations of the claim or otherwise restricts the meaning or scope of the claim.

The term wherein as utilized herein does not evidence intended use. The term wherein expressly refers to one or more features inclusive in a particular embodiment and does not imply or include an optional or conditional limitation.

Where a limitation of a first claim would cover one of a feature as well as more than one of a feature e.g. a limitation such as at least one widget covers one widget as well as more than one widget and where in a second claim that depends on the first claim the second claim uses a definite article the to refer to the limitation e.g. the widget this does not imply that the first claim covers only one of the feature and this does not imply that the second claim covers only one of the feature e.g. the widget can cover both one widget and more than one widget .

When an ordinal number such as first second third and so on is used as an adjective before a term that ordinal number is used unless expressly specified otherwise merely to indicate a particular feature such as to allow for distinguishing that particular referenced feature from another feature that is described by the same term or by a similar term. For example a first widget may be so named merely to allow for distinguishing it in one or more claims from a second widget so as to encompass embodiments in which 1 the first widget is or is the same as the second widget and 2 the first widget is different than or is not identical to the second widget . Thus the mere usage of the ordinal numbers first and second before the term widget does not indicate any other relationship between the two widgets and likewise does not indicate any other characteristics of either or both widgets. For example the mere usage of the ordinal numbers first and second before the term widget 1 does not indicate that either widget comes before or after any other in order or location 2 does not indicate that either widget occurs or acts before or after any other in time 3 does not indicate that either widget ranks above or below any other as in importance or quality and 4 does not indicate that the two referenced widgets are not identical or the same widget. In addition the mere usage of ordinal numbers does not define a numerical limit to the features identified with the ordinal numbers. For example the mere usage of the ordinal numbers first and second before the term widget does not indicate that there must be no more than two widgets.

When a single device or article is described herein more than one device or article whether or not they cooperate may alternatively be used in place of the single device or article that is described. Accordingly the functionality that is described as being possessed by a device may alternatively be possessed by more than one device or article whether or not they cooperate .

Similarly where more than one device or article is described herein whether or not they cooperate a single device or article may alternatively be used in place of the more than one device or article that is described. For example a plurality of computer based devices may be substituted with a single computer based device. Accordingly the various functionality that is described as being possessed by more than one device or article may alternatively be possessed by a single device or article.

The functionality and or the features of a single device that is described may be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are described but are not explicitly described as having such functionality and or features. Thus other embodiments need not include the described device itself but rather can include the one or more other devices which would in those other embodiments have such functionality features.

Devices that are in communication with each other need not be in continuous communication with each other unless expressly specified otherwise. On the contrary such devices need only transmit to each other as necessary or desirable and may actually refrain from exchanging data most of the time. For example a machine in communication with another machine via the Internet may not transmit data to the other machine for weeks at a time. In addition devices that are in communication with each other may communicate directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries.

A description of an embodiment with several components or features does not imply that all or even any of such components and or features are required. On the contrary a variety of optional components are described to illustrate the wide variety of possible embodiments of the present invention s . Unless otherwise specified explicitly no component and or feature is essential or required.

Further although process steps algorithms or the like may be described in a sequential order such processes may be configured to work in different orders. In other words any sequence or order of steps that may be explicitly described does not necessarily indicate a requirement that the steps be performed in that order. The steps of processes described herein may be performed in any order practical. Further some steps may be performed simultaneously despite being described or implied as occurring non simultaneously e.g. because one step is described after the other step . Moreover the illustration of a process by its depiction in a drawing does not imply that the illustrated process is exclusive of other variations and modifications thereto does not imply that the illustrated process or any of its steps are necessary to the invention and does not imply that the illustrated process is preferred.

Although a process may be described as including a plurality of steps that does not indicate that all or even any of the steps are essential or required. Various other embodiments within the scope of the described invention s include other processes that omit some or all of the described steps. Unless otherwise specified explicitly no step is essential or required.

Although a product may be described as including a plurality of components aspects qualities characteristics and or features that does not indicate that all of the plurality are essential or required. Various other embodiments within the scope of the described invention s include other products that omit some or all of the described plurality.

An enumerated list of items which may or may not be numbered does not imply that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive unless expressly specified otherwise. Likewise an enumerated list of items which may or may not be numbered does not imply that any or all of the items are comprehensive of any category unless expressly specified otherwise. For example the enumerated list a computer a laptop a FDA does not imply that any or all of the three items of that list are mutually exclusive and does not imply that any or all of the three items of that list are comprehensive of any category.

Headings of sections provided in this patent application and the title of this patent application are for convenience only and are not to be taken as limiting the disclosure in any way.

 Determining something can be performed in a variety of manners and therefore the term determining and like terms includes calculating computing deriving looking up e.g. in a table database or data structure ascertaining and the like.

It will be readily apparent that the various methods and algorithms described herein may be implemented by e.g. appropriately and or specially programmed general purpose computers and or computing devices. Typically a processor e.g. one or more microprocessors will receive instructions from a memory or like device and execute those instructions thereby performing one or more processes defined by those instructions. Further programs that implement such methods and algorithms may be stored and transmitted using a variety of media e.g. computer readable media in a number of manners. In some embodiments hard wired circuitry or custom hardware may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation of the processes of various embodiments. Thus embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software

A processor generally means any one or more microprocessors CPU devices computing devices microcontrollers digital signal processors or like devices as further described herein. According to some embodiments a processor may primarily comprise and or be limited to a specific class of processors referred to herein as processing devices . Processing devices are a subset of processors limited to physical devices such as CPU devices Printed Circuit Board PCB devices transistors capacitors logic gates etc. Processing devices for example explicitly exclude biological software only and or biological or software centric physical devices. While processing devices may include some degree of soft logic and or programming for example such devices must include a predominant degree of physical structure in accordance with 35 U.S.C. 101.

The term computer readable medium refers to any medium that participates in providing data e.g. instructions or other information that may be read by a computer a processor or a like device. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory. Volatile media include DRAM which typically constitutes the main memory. Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a system bus coupled to the processor. Transmission media may include or convey acoustic waves light waves and electromagnetic emissions such as those generated during RF and IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

The term computer readable memory may generally refer to a subset and or class of computer readable medium that does not include transmission media such as waveforms carrier waves electromagnetic emissions etc. Computer readable memory may typically include physical media upon which data e.g. instructions or other information are stored such as optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory DRAM a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge computer hard drives backup tapes Universal Serial Bus USB memory devices and the like.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying data including sequences of instructions to a processor. For example sequences of instruction i may be delivered from RAM to a processor ii may be carried over a wireless transmission medium and or iii may be formatted according to numerous formats standards or protocols such as Bluetooth TDMA CDMA 3G.

Where databases are described it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that i alternative database structures to those described may be readily employed and ii other memory structures besides databases may be readily employed. Any illustrations or descriptions of any sample databases presented herein are illustrative arrangements for stored representations of information. Any number of other arrangements may be employed besides those suggested by e.g. tables illustrated in drawings or elsewhere. Similarly any illustrated entries of the databases represent exemplary information only one of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the number and content of the entries can be different from those described herein. Further despite any depiction of the databases as tables other formats including relational databases object based models and or distributed databases could be used to store and manipulate the data types described herein. Likewise object methods or behaviors of a database can be used to implement various processes such as the described herein. In addition the databases may in a known manner be stored locally or remotely from a device that accesses data in such a database.

The present invention can be configured to work in a network environment including a computer that is in communication via a communications network with one or more devices. The computer may communicate with the devices directly or indirectly via a wired or wireless medium such as the Internet LAN WAN or Ethernet Token Ring or via any appropriate communications means or combination of communications means. Each of the devices may comprise computers such as those based on the Intel Pentium or Centrino processor that are adapted to communicate with the computer. Any number and type of machines may be in communication with the computer.

The present disclosure provides to one of ordinary skill in the art an enabling description of several embodiments and or inventions. Some of these embodiments and or inventions may not be claimed in the present application but may nevertheless be claimed in one or more continuing applications that claim the benefit of priority of the present application. Applicants intend to file additional applications to pursue patents for subject matter that has been disclosed and enabled but not claimed in the present application.

