---

title: Systems and methods for shipping management in a network of moving things
abstract: Systems and methods for shipping management in a network of moving things. As non-limiting examples, various aspects of this disclosure provide systems and methods for integrating sensors, mobile access points, and/or the network of moving things with shipping container management systems (e.g., port management systems, train management systems, trucking management systems, etc.).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09648446&OS=09648446&RS=09648446
owner: VENIAM, INC.
number: 09648446
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160824
---
This patent application makes reference to claims priority to and claims benefit from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 190 titled Systems and Methods for Port Management in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015. The present application is also related to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 221 997 titled Integrated Communication Network for a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 016 titled Systems and Methods for Synchronizing a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 042 titled Systems and Methods for Managing a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 066 titled Systems and Methods for Monitoring a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 077 titled Systems and Methods for Detecting and Classifying Anomalies in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 098 titled Systems and Methods for Managing Mobility in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 121 titled Systems and Methods for Managing Connectivity a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 135 titled Systems and Methods for Collecting Sensor Data in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 145 titled Systems and Methods for Interfacing with a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 150 titled Systems and Methods for Interfacing with a User of a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 168 titled Systems and Methods for Data Storage and Processing for a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 183 titled Systems and Methods for Vehicle Traffic Management in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 186 titled Systems and Methods for Environmental Management in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 190 titled Systems and Methods for Port Management in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 62 222 192 titled Communication Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 244 828 titled Utilizing Historical Data to Correct GPS Data in a Network of Moving Things filed on Oct. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 244 930 titled Using Anchors to Correct GPS Data in a Network of Moving Things filed on Oct. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 246 368 titled Systems and Methods for Inter Application Communication in a Network of Moving Things filed on Oct. 26 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 246 372 titled Systems and Methods for Probing and Validating Communication in a Network of Moving Things filed on Oct. 26 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 250 544 titled Adaptive Rate Control for Vehicular Networks filed on Nov. 4 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 273 878 titled Systems and Methods for Reconfiguring and Adapting Hardware in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 31 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 253 249 titled Systems and Methods for Optimizing Data Gathering in a Network of Moving Things filed on Nov. 10 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 257 421 titled Systems and Methods for Delay Tolerant Networking in a Network of Moving Things filed on Nov. 19 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 265 267 titled Systems and Methods for Improving Coverage and Throughput of Mobile Access Points in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 9 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 270 858 titled Channel Coordination in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 257 854 titled Systems and Methods for Network Coded Mesh Networking in a Network of Moving Things filed on Nov. 20 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 260 749 titled Systems and Methods for Improving Fixed Access Point Coverage in a Network of Moving Things filed on Nov. 30 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 273 715 titled Systems and Methods for Managing Mobility Controllers and Their Network Interactions in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 31 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 281 432 titled Systems and Methods for Managing and Triggering Handovers of Mobile Access Points in a Network of Moving Things filed on Jan. 21 2016 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 268 188 titled Captive Portal related Control and Management in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 16 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 270 678 titled Systems and Methods to Extrapolate High Value Data from a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 22 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 272 750 titled Systems and Methods for Remote Software Update and Distribution in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 30 2015 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 278 662 titled Systems and Methods for Remote Configuration Update and Distribution in a Network of Moving Things filed on Jan. 14 2016 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 286 243 titled Systems and Methods for Adapting a Network of Moving Things Based on User Feedback filed on Jan. 22 2016 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 278 764 titled Systems and Methods to Guarantee Data Integrity When Building Data Analytics in a Network of Moving Things filed on Jan. 14 2016 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 286 515 titled Systems and Methods for Self Initialization and Automated Bootstrapping of Mobile Access Points in a Network of Moving Things filed on Jan. 25 2016 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 295 602 titled Systems and Methods for Power Management in a Network of Moving Things filed on Feb. 16 2016 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 299 269 titled Systems and Methods for Automating and Easing the Installation and Setup of the Infrastructure Supporting a Network of Moving Things filed on Feb. 24 2016 each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Current shipping management systems e.g. shipping container management systems port management systems train management systems trucking management systems etc. are inefficient for example failing to utilize sensor information available to them. As a non limiting example current shipping container management systems do not take full advantage of sensor technology integrated with the Internet of moving things. Limitations and disadvantages of conventional methods and systems will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such approaches with some aspects of the present methods and systems set forth in the remainder of this disclosure with reference to the drawings.

Various aspects of this disclosure provide systems and methods for shipping management in a network of moving things. As non limiting examples various aspects of this disclosure provide systems and methods for integrating sensors mobile access points and or the network of moving things with shipping container management systems e.g. port management systems train management systems trucking management systems etc. .

As utilized herein the terms circuits and circuitry refer to physical electronic components i.e. hardware and any software and or firmware code that may configure the hardware be executed by the hardware and or otherwise be associated with the hardware. As used herein for example a particular processor and memory e.g. a volatile or non volatile memory device a general computer readable medium etc. may comprise a first circuit when executing a first one or more lines of code and may comprise a second circuit when executing a second one or more lines of code. Additionally a circuit may comprise analog and or digital circuitry. Such circuitry may for example operate on analog and or digital signals. It should be understood that a circuit may be in a single device or chip on a single motherboard in a single chassis in a plurality of enclosures at a single geographical location in a plurality of enclosures distributed over a plurality of geographical locations etc. Similarly the term module may for example refer to a physical electronic components i.e. hardware and any software and or firmware code that may configure the hardware be executed by the hardware and or otherwise be associated with the hardware.

As utilized herein circuitry is operable to perform a function whenever the circuitry comprises the necessary hardware and code if any is necessary to perform the function regardless of whether performance of the function is disabled or not enabled e.g. by a user configurable setting factory setting or trim etc. .

As utilized herein and or means any one or more of the items in the list joined by and or . As an example x and or y means any element of the three element set x y x y . That is x and or y means one or both of x and y. As another example x y and or z means any element of the seven element set x y z x y x z y z x y z . That is x y and or x means one or more of x y and z. As utilized herein the terms e.g. and for example exemplary and the like set off lists of one or more non limiting examples instances or illustrations.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting of the disclosure. As used herein the singular forms are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises includes comprising including has have having and the like when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another element. Thus for example a first element a first component or a first section discussed below could be termed a second element a second component or a second section without departing from the teachings of the present disclosure. Similarly various spatial terms such as upper lower side and the like may be used in distinguishing one element from another element in a relative manner. It should be understood however that components may be oriented in different manners for example an electronic device may be turned sideways so that its top surface is facing horizontally and its side surface is facing vertically without departing from the teachings of the present disclosure.

With the proliferation of the mobile and or static things e.g. devices machines people etc. and logistics for such things to become connected to each other e.g. in the contexts of smart logistics transportation environmental sensing etc. a platform that is for example always on robust scalable and secure that is capable of providing connectivity services and Internet access to such things or objects anywhere and anytime is desirable. Efficient power utilization within the various components of such system is also desirable.

Accordingly various aspects of the present disclosure provide a fully operable always on responsive robust scalable secure platform system architecture to provide connectivity services and Internet access to all mobile things and or static things e.g. devices machines people access points end user devices sensors etc. anywhere and anytime while operating in an energy efficient manner.

Various aspects of the present disclosure provide a platform that is flexibly configurable and adaptable to the various requirements features and needs of different environments where each environment may be characterized by a respective level of mobility and density of mobile and or static things and the number and or types of access to those things. Characteristics of various environments may for example include high mobility of nodes e.g. causing contacts or connections to be volatile high number of neighbors high number of connected mobile users mobile access points availability of multiple networks and technologies e.g. sometimes within a same area etc. For example the mode of operation of the platform may be flexibly adapted from environment to environment based on each environment s respective requirements and needs which may be different from other environments. Additionally for example the platform may be flexibly optimized e.g. at design installation time and or in real time for different purposes e.g. to reduce the latency increase throughput reduce power consumption load balance increase reliability make more robust with regard to failures or other disturbances etc. for example based on the content service or data that the platform provides or handles within a particular environment.

In accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure many control and management services e.g. mobility security routing etc. are provided on top of the platform e.g. directly using control overlays using containers etc. such services being compatible with the services currently deployed on top of the Internet or other communication network s .

The communication network or platform in whole or in part may for example be operated in public and or private modes of operation for example depending on the use case. The platform may for example operate in a public or private mode of operation depending on the use case e.g. public Internet access municipal environment sensing fleet operation etc. .

Additionally for example in an implementation in which various network components are mobile the transportation and or signal control mechanisms may be adapted to serve the needs of the particular implementation. Also for example wireless transmission power and or rate may be adapted e.g. to mitigate interference to reduce power consumption to extend the life of network components etc.

Various example implementations of a platform in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure are capable of connecting different subsystems even when various other subsystems that may normally be utilized are unavailable. For example the platform may comprise various built in redundancies and fail recovery mechanisms. For example the platform may comprise a self healing capability self configuration capability self adaptation capability etc. The protocols and functions of the platform may for example be prepared to be autonomously and smoothly configured and adapted to the requirements and features of different environments characterized by different levels of mobility and density of things or objects the number types of access to those things. For example various aspects of the platform may gather context parameters that can influence any or all decisions. Such parameters may for example be derived locally gathered from a neighborhood Fixed APs the Cloud etc. Various aspects of the platform may also for example ask for historical information to feed any of the decisions where such information can be derived from historical data from surveys from simulators etc. Various aspects of the platform may additionally for example probe or monitor decisions made throughout the network for example to evaluate the network and or the decisions themselves in real time. Various aspects of the platform may further for example enforce the decisions in the network e.g. after evaluating the probing results . Various aspects of the platform may for example establish thresholds to avoid any decision that is to be constantly or repeatedly performed without any significant advantage e.g. technology change certificate change IP change etc. . Various aspects of the platform may also for example learn locally e.g. with the decisions performed and dynamically update the decisions.

In addition to or instead of failure robustness a platform may utilize multiple connections or pathways that exist between distinct sub systems or elements within the same sub system to increase the robustness and or load balancing of the system.

The following discussion will present examples of the functionality performed by various example subsystems of the communication network. It should be understood that the example functionality discussed herein need not be performed by the particular example subsystem or by a single subsystem. For example the subsystems present herein may interact with each other and data or control services may be deployed either in a centralized way or having their functionalities distributed among the different subsystems for example leveraging the cooperation between the elements of each subsystem.

Various aspects of the present disclosure provide a communication network e.g. a city wide vehicular network a shipping port sized vehicular network a campus wide vehicular network etc. that utilizes vehicles e.g. automobiles buses trucks boats forklifts etc. as Wi Fi hotspots. Note that Wi Fi is generally used throughout this discussion as an example but the scope of various aspects of this disclosure is not limited thereto. For example other wireless LAN technologies PAN technologies MAN technologies etc. may be utilized. Such utilization may for example provide cost effective ways to gather substantial amounts of urban data and provide for the efficient offloading of traffic from congested cellular networks or other networks . In controlled areas e.g. ports harbors etc. with many vehicles a communication network in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure may expand the wireless coverage of existing enterprise Wi Fi networks for example providing for real time communication with vehicle drivers e.g. human computer controlled etc. and other mobile employees without the need for SIM cards or cellular or other network data plans.

Vehicles may have many advantageous characteristics that make them useful as Wi Fi or general wireless hotspots. For example vehicles generally have at least one battery vehicles are generally densely spread over the city at street level and or they are able to establish many contacts with each other in a controlled space and vehicles can communicate with 10 the range of normal Wi Fi in the 5.9 GHz frequency band reserved for intelligent transportation systems in the EU the U.S. and elsewhere. Note that the scope of this disclosure is not limited to such 5.9 GHz wireless communication. Further vehicles are able to effectively expand their coverage area into a swath over a period of time enabling a single vehicle access point to interact with substantially more data sources over the period of time.

In accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure an affordable multi network on board unit OBU is presented. Note that the OBU may also be referred to herein as a mobile access point Mobile AP MAP etc. The OBU may for example comprise a plurality of networking interfaces e.g. Wi Fi 802.11p 4G Bluetooth UWB etc. . The OBU may for example be readily installed in or on private and or public vehicles e.g. individual user vehicles vehicles of private fleets vehicles of public fleets etc. . The OBU may for example be installed in transportation fleets waste management fleets law enforcement fleets emergency services road maintenance fleets taxi fleets aircraft fleets etc. The OBU may for example be installed in or on a vehicle or other structure with free mobility or relatively limited mobility. The OBU may also for example be carried by a person or service animal mounted to a bicycle mounted to a moving machine in general mounted to a container etc.

The OBUs may for example operate to connect passing vehicles to the wired infrastructure of one or more network providers telecom operators etc. In accordance with the architecture hardware and software functionality discussed herein vehicles and fleets can be connected not just to the cellular networks or other wide area or metropolitan area networks etc. and existing Wi Fi hotspots spread over a city or a controlled space but also to other vehicles e.g. utilizing multi hop communications to a wired infrastructure single or multi hop peer to peer vehicle communication etc. . The vehicles and or fleets may for example form an overall mesh of communication links for example including the OBUs and also fixed Access Points APs connected to the wired infrastructure e.g. a local infrastructure etc. . Note that OBUs herein may also be referred to as Mobile APs mobile hotspots MAPs etc. Also note that fixed access points may also be referred to herein as Road Side Units RSUs Fixed APs FAPs etc.

In an example implementation the OBUs may communicate with the Fixed APs utilizing a relatively long range protocol e.g. 802.11p etc. and the Fixed APs may in turn be hard wired to the wired infrastructure e.g. via cable tethered optical link etc. . Note that Fixed APs may also or alternatively be coupled to the infrastructure via wireless link e.g. 802.11p etc. . Additionally clients or user devices may communicate with the OBUs using one or more relatively short range protocols e.g. Wi Fi Bluetooth UWB etc. . The OBUs for example having a longer effective wireless communication range than typical Wi Fi access points or other wireless LAN PAN access points e.g. at least for links such as those based on 802.11p etc. are capable of substantially greater coverage areas than typical Wi Fi or other wireless LAN PAN access points and thus fewer OBUs are necessary to provide blanket coverage over a geographical area.

The OBU may for example comprise a robust vehicular networking module e.g. a connection manager which builds on long range communication protocol capability e.g. 802.11p etc. . For example in addition to comprising 802.11p or other long range protocol capability to communicate with Fixed APs vehicles and other nodes in the network the OBU may comprise a network interface e.g. 802.11a b g n 802.11ac 802.11af any combination thereof etc. to provide wireless local area network WLAN connectivity to end user devices sensors fixed Wi Fi access points etc. For example the OBU may operate to provide in vehicle Wi Fi Internet access to users in and or around the vehicle e.g. a bus train car taxi cab public works vehicle etc. . The OBU may further comprise one or more wireless backbone communication interfaces e.g. cellular network interfaces etc. . Though in various example scenarios a cellular network interface or other wireless backbone communication interface might not be the preferred interface for various reasons e.g. cost power bandwidth etc. the cellular network interface may be utilized to provide connectivity in geographical areas that are not presently supported by a Fixed AP may be utilized to provide a fail over communication link may be utilized for emergency communications may be utilized to subscribe to local infrastructure access etc. The cellular network interface may also for example be utilized to allow the deployment of solutions that are dependent on the cellular network operators.

An OBU in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure may for example comprise a smart connection manager that can select the best available wireless link s e.g. Wi Fi 802.11p cellular vehicle mesh etc. with which to access the Internet. The OBU may also for example provide geo location capabilities e.g. GPS etc. motion detection sensors to determine if the vehicle is in motion and a power control subsystem e.g. to ensure that the OBU does not deplete the vehicle battery etc. . The OBU may for example comprise any or all of the sensors e.g. environmental sensors etc. discussed herein.

The OBU may also for example comprise a manager that manages machine to machine data acquisition and transfer e.g. in a real time or delay tolerant fashion to and from the cloud. For example the OBU may log and or communicate information of the vehicles.

The OBU may for example comprise a connection and or routing manager that operates to perform routing of communications in a vehicle to vehicle vehicle to infrastructure multi hop communication. A mobility manager or controller MC may for example ensure that communication sessions persist over one or more handoff s also referred to herein as a handover or handovers e.g. between different Mobile APs Fixed APs base stations hot spots etc. among different technologies e.g. 802.11p cellular Wi Fi satellite etc. among different MCs e.g. in a fail over scenario load redistribution scenario etc. across different interfaces or ports etc. Note that the MC may also be referred to herein as a Local Mobility Anchor LMA a Network Controller etc. Note that the MC or a plurality thereof may for example be implemented as part of the backbone but may also or alternatively be implemented as part of any of a variety of components or combinations thereof. For example the MC may be implemented in a Fixed AP or distributed system thereof as part of an OBU or a distributed system thereof etc. Various non limiting examples of system components and or methods are provided in U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 222 098 filed Sep. 22 2015 and titled Systems and Method for Managing Mobility in a Network of Moving Things the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference. Note that in an example implementation including a plurality of MCs such MCs may be co located and or may be geographically distributed.

Various aspects of the present disclosure also provide a cloud based service oriented architecture that handles the real time management monitoring and reporting of the network and clients the functionalities required for data storage processing and management the Wi Fi client authentication and Captive Portal display etc.

A communication network or component thereof in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure may for example support a wide range of smart city applications or controlled scenarios or connected scenarios etc. and or use cases as described herein.

For example an example implementation may operate to turn each vehicle e.g. both public and private taxis buses trucks etc. into a Mobile AP e.g. a mobile Wi Fi hotspot offering Internet access to employees passengers and mobile users travelling in the city waiting in bus stops sitting in parks etc. Moreover through an example vehicular mesh network formed between vehicles and or fleets of vehicles an implementation may be operable to offload cellular traffic through the mobile Wi Fi hotspots and or Fixed APs e.g. 802.11p based APs spread over the city and connected to the wired infrastructure of public or private telecom operators in strategic places while ensuring the widest possible coverage at the lowest possible cost.

An example implementation e.g. of a communication network and or components thereof may for example be operable as a massive urban scanner that gathers large amounts of data e.g. continuously on the move actionable or not generated by a myriad of sources spanning from the in vehicle sensors or On Board Diagnostic System port e.g. OBD2 etc. external Wi Fi Bluetooth enabled sensing units spread over the city devices of vehicles drivers and passengers e.g. information characterizing such devices and or passengers etc. positioning system devices e.g. position information velocity information trajectory information travel history information etc. etc.

Depending on the use case the OBU may for example process or computer transform manipulate aggregate summarize etc. the data before sending the data from the vehicle for example providing the appropriate granularity e.g. value resolution and sampling rates e.g. temporal resolution for each individual application. For example the OBU may for example process the data in any manner deemed advantageous by the system. The OBU may for example send the collected data e.g. raw data preprocessed data information of metrics calculated based on the collected data etc. to the Cloud e.g. to one or more networked servers coupled to any portion of the network in an efficient and reliable manner to improve the efficiency environmental impact and social value of municipal city operations and transportation services. Various example use cases are described herein.

In an example scenario in which public buses are moving along city routes and or taxis are performing their private transportation services the OBU is able to collect large quantities of real time data from the positioning systems e.g. GPS etc. from accelerometer modules etc. The OBU may then for example communicate such data to the Cloud where the data may be processed reported and viewed for example to support such public or private bus and or taxi operations for example supporting efficient remote monitoring and scheduling of buses and taxis respectively.

In an example implementation small cameras or other sensors may be coupled to small single board computers SBCs that are placed above the doors of public buses to allow capturing image sequences of people entering and leaving buses and or on stops along the bus routes in order to estimate the number of people waiting for a bus. Such data may be gathered by the OBU in order to be sent to the Cloud. With such data public transportation systems may detect peaks overcrowded buses routes and stops underutilized buses routes and stops etc. enabling action to be taken in real time e.g. reducing bus periodicity to decrease fuel costs and COemissions where and when passenger flows are smaller etc. as well as detecting systematic transportation problems.

An OBU may for example be operable to communicate with any of a variety of Wi Fi enabled sensor devices equipped with a heterogeneous collection of environmental sensors. Such sensors may for example comprise noise sensors microphones etc. gas sensors e.g. sensing CO NO O volatile organic compounds or VOCs CO etc. smoke sensors pollution sensors meteorological sensors e.g. sensing temperature humidity luminosity particles solar radiation wind speed e.g. anemometer wind direction rain e.g. a pluviometer optical scanners biometric scanners cameras microphones etc. . Such sensors may also comprise sensors associated with users e.g. vehicle operators or passengers passersby etc. and or their personal devices e.g. smart phones or watches biometrics sensors wearable sensors implanted sensors etc. . Such sensors may for example comprise sensors and or systems associated with on board diagnostic OBD units for vehicles. Such sensors may for example comprise positioning sensors e.g. GPS sensors Galileo sensors GLONASS sensors etc. . Such sensors may for example comprise container sensors e.g. garbage can sensors shipping container sensors container environmental sensors container tracking sensors etc. .

Once a vehicle enters the vicinity of such a sensor device a wireless link may be established so that the vehicle or OBU thereof can collect sensor data from the sensor device and upload the collected data to a database in the Cloud. The appropriate action can then be taken. In an example waste management implementation several waste management or collection trucks may be equipped with OBUs that are able to periodically communicate with sensors installed on containers in order to gather information about waste level time passed since last collection etc. Such information may then sent to the Cloud e.g. to a waste management application coupled to the Internet etc. through the vehicular mesh network in order to improve the scheduling and or routing of waste management trucks. Note that various sensors may always be in range of the Mobile AP e.g. vehicle mounted sensors . Note that the sensor may also or alternatively be mobile e.g. a sensor mounted to another vehicle passing by a Mobile AP or Fixed AP a drone mounted sensor a pedestrian mounted sensor etc. .

In an example implementation for example in a controlled space e.g. a port harbor airport factory plantation mine etc. with many vehicles machines and employees a communication network in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure may expand the wireless coverage of enterprise and or local Wi Fi networks for example without resorting to a Telco dependent solution based on SIM cards or cellular fees. In such an example scenario apart from avoiding expensive cellular data plans limited data rate and poor cellular coverage in some places a communication network in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure is also able to collect and or communicate large amounts of data in a reliable and real time manner where such data may be used to optimize harbor logistics transportation operations etc.

For example in a port and or harbor implementation by gathering real time information on the position speed fuel consumption and COemissions of the vehicles the communication network allows a port operator to improve the coordination of the ship loading processes and increase the throughput of the harbor. Also for example the communication network enables remote monitoring of drivers behaviors trucks positions and engines status and then be able to provide real time notifications to drivers e.g. to turn on off the engine follow the right route inside the harbor take a break etc. thus reducing the number and duration of the harbor services and trips. Harbor authorities may for example quickly detect malfunctioning trucks and abnormal trucks circulation thus avoiding accidents in order to increase harbor efficiency security and safety. Additionally the vehicles can also connect to Wi Fi access points from harbor local operators and provide Wi Fi Internet access to vehicles occupants and surrounding harbor employees for example allowing pilots to save time by filing reports via the Internet while still on the water.

The example network for example comprises a Cloud that may for example comprise any of a variety of network level components. The Cloud may for example comprise any of a variety of server systems executing applications that monitor and or control components of the network . Such applications may also for example manage the collection of information from any of a large array of networked information sources many examples of which are discussed herein. The Cloud or a portion thereof may also be referred to at times as an API. For example Cloud or a portion thereof may provide one or more application programming interfaces APIs which other devices may use for communicating interacting with the Cloud.

An example component of the Cloud may for example manage interoperability with various multi cloud systems and architectures. Another example component e.g. a Cloud service component may for example provide various cloud services e.g. captive portal services authentication authorization and accounting AAA services API Gateway services etc. . An additional example component e.g. a DevCenter component may for example provide network monitoring and or management functionality manage the implementation of software updates etc. A further example component of the Cloud may manage data storage data analytics data access etc. A still further example component of the Cloud may include any of a variety of third partly applications and services.

The Cloud may for example be coupled to the Backbone Core Infrastructure of the example network via the Internet e.g. utilizing one or more Internet Service Providers . Though the Internet is provided by example it should be understood that scope of the present disclosure is not limited thereto.

The Backbone Core may for example comprise any one or more different communication infrastructure components. For example one or more providers may provide backbone networks or various components thereof. As shown in the example network illustrated in a Backbone provider may provide wireline access e.g. PSTN fiber cable etc. . Also for example a Backbone provider may provide wireless access e.g. Microwave LTE Cellular 5G TV Spectrum etc. .

The Backbone Core may also for example comprise one or more Local Infrastructure Providers. The Backbone Core may also for example comprise a private infrastructure e.g. run by the network implementer owner etc. . The Backbone Core may for example provide any of a variety of Backbone Services e.g. AAA Mobility Monitoring Addressing Routing Content services Gateway Control services etc. .

The Backbone Core Infrastructure may comprise any of a variety of characteristics non limiting examples of which are provided herein. For example the Backbone Core may be compatible with different wireless or wired technologies for backbone access. The Backbone Core may also be adaptable to handle public e.g. municipal city campus etc. and or private e.g. ports campus etc. network infrastructures owned by different local providers and or owned by the network implementer or stakeholder. The Backbone Core may for example comprise and or interface with different Authentication Authorization and Accounting AAA mechanisms.

The Backbone Core Infrastructure may for example support different modes of operation e.g. L2 in port implementations L3 in on land public transportation implementations utilizing any one or more of a plurality of different layers of digital IP networking any combinations thereof equivalents thereof etc. or addressing pools. The Backbone Core may also for example be agnostic to the Cloud provider s and or Internet Service Provider s . Additionally for example the Backbone Core may be agnostic to requests coming from any or all subsystems of the network e.g. Mobile APs or OBUs On Board Units Fixed APs or RSUs Road Side Units MCs Mobility Controllers or LMAs Local Mobility Anchors or Network Controllers etc. and or third party systems.

The Backbone Core Infrastructure may for example comprise the ability to utilize and or interface with different data storage processing systems e.g. MongoDB MySql Redis etc. . The Backbone Core Infrastructure may further for example provide different levels of simultaneous access to the infrastructure services data etc.

The example network may also for example comprise a Fixed Hotspot Access Network. Various example characteristics of such a Fixed Hotspot Access Network are shown at . The example network may for example share any or all characteristics with the other example methods nodes networks and or network components and shown and or discussed herein.

In the example network the Fixed APs e.g. the proprietary APs the public third party APs the private third party APs etc. may be directly connected to the local infrastructure provider and or to the wireline wireless backbone. Also for example the example network may comprise a mesh between the various APs via wireless technologies. Note however that various wired technologies may also be utilized depending on the implementation. As shown different fixed hotspot access networks can be connected to a same backbone provider but may also be connected to different respective backbone providers. In an example implementation utilizing wireless technology for backbone access such an implementation may be relatively fault tolerant. For example a Fixed AP may utilize wireless communications to the backbone network e.g. cellular 3G LTE other wide or metropolitan area networks etc. if the backhaul infrastructure is down. Also for example such an implementation may provide for relatively easy installation e.g. a Fixed AP with no cable power source that can be placed virtually anywhere .

In the example network the same Fixed AP can simultaneously provide access to multiple Fixed APs Mobile APs e.g. vehicle OBUs etc. devices user devices sensors things etc. For example a plurality of mobile hotspot access networks e.g. OBU based networks etc. may utilize the same Fixed AP. Also for example the same Fixed AP can provide a plurality of simultaneous accesses to another single unit e.g. another Fixed AP Mobile AP device etc. for example utilizing different channels different radios etc. .

Note that a plurality of Fixed APs may be utilized for fault tolerance fail recovery purposes. In an example implementation a Fixed AP and its fail over AP may both be normally operational e.g. in a same switch . Also for example one or more Fixed APs may be placed in the network at various locations in an inactive or monitoring mode and ready to become operational when needed e.g. in response to a fault in response to an emergency services need in response to a data surge etc. .

Referring back to the example Fixed Hotspot Access Network is shown with a wireless communication link to a backbone provider e.g. to one or more Backbone Providers and or Local Infrastructure Providers to a Mobile Hotspot Access Network to one or more End User Devices and to the Environment. Also the example Fixed Hotspot Access Network is shown with a wired communication link to one or more Backbone Providers to the Mobile Hotspot Access Network to one or more End User Devices and to the Environment. The Environment may comprise any of a variety of devices e.g. in vehicle networks devices and sensors autonomous vehicle networks devices and sensors maritime or watercraft and port networks devices and sensors general controlled space networks devices and sensors residential networks devices and sensors disaster recovery emergency networks devices and sensors military and aircraft networks devices and sensors smart city networks devices and sensors event or venue networks devices and sensors underwater and underground networks devices and sensors agricultural networks devices and sensors tunnel auto subway train etc. networks devices and sensors parking networks devices and sensors security and surveillance networks devices and sensors shipping equipment and container networks devices and sensors environmental control or monitoring networks devices and sensors municipal networks devices and sensors waste management networks devices and sensors road maintenance networks devices and sensors traffic management networks devices and sensors advertising networks devices and sensors etc. .

The example network of also comprises a Mobile Hotspot Access Network. Various example characteristics of such a Mobile Hotspot Access Network are shown at . Note that various fixed network components e.g. Fixed APs are also illustrated. The example network may for example share any or all characteristics with the other example methods nodes networks and or network components and shown and or discussed herein.

The example network comprises a wide variety of Mobile APs or hotspots that provide access to user devices provide for sensor data collection provide multi hop connectivity to other Mobile APs etc. For example the example network comprises vehicles from different fleets e.g. aerial terrestrial underground under water etc. . For example the example network comprises one or more mass distribution transportation fleets one or more mass passenger transportation fleets private public shared user fleets private vehicles urban and municipal fleets maintenance fleets drones watercraft e.g. boats ships speedboats tugboats barges etc. emergency fleets e.g. police ambulance firefighter etc. etc.

The example network for example shows vehicles from different fleets directly connected and or mesh connected for example using same or different communication technologies. The example network also shows fleets simultaneously connected to different Fixed APs which may or may not belong to different respective local infrastructure providers. As a fault tolerance mechanism the example network may for example comprise the utilization of long range wireless communication network e.g. cellular 3G 4G LTE etc. in vehicles if the local network infrastructure is down or otherwise unavailable. A same vehicle e.g. Mobile AP or OBU can simultaneously provide access to multiple vehicles devices things etc. for example using a same communication technology e.g. shared channels and or different respective channels thereof and or using a different respective communication technology for each. Also for example a same vehicle can provide multiple accesses to another vehicle device thing etc. for example using a same communication technology e.g. shared channels and or different respective channels thereof and or using a different communication technology .

Additionally multiple network elements may be connected together to provide for fault tolerance or fail recovery increased throughput or to achieve any or a variety of a client s networking needs many of examples of which are provided herein. For example two Mobile APs or OBUs may be installed in a same vehicle etc.

Referring back to the example Mobile Hotspot Access Network is shown with a wireless communication link to a backbone provider e.g. to one or more Backbone Providers and or Local Infrastructure Providers to a Fixed Hotspot Access Network to one or more End User Device and to the Environment e.g. to any one of more of the sensors or systems discussed herein any other device or machine etc. . Though the Mobile Hotspot Access Network is not shown having a wired link to the various other components there may at least at times be such a wired link at least temporarily.

The example network of also comprises a set of End User Devices. Various example end user devices are shown at . Note that various other network components e.g. Fixed Hotspot Access Networks Mobile Hotspot Access Network s the Backbone Core etc. are also illustrated. The example network may for example share any or all characteristics with the other example methods nodes networks and or network components and shown and or discussed herein.

The example network shows various mobile networked devices. Such network devices may comprise end user devices e.g. smartphones tablets smartwatches laptop computers webcams personal gaming devices personal navigation devices personal media devices personal cameras health monitoring devices personal location devices monitoring panels printers etc. . Such networked devices may also comprise any of a variety of devices operating in the general environment where such devices might not for example be associated with a particular user e.g. any or all of the sensor devices discussed herein vehicle sensors municipal sensors fleet sensors road sensors environmental sensors security sensors traffic sensors waste sensors meteorological sensors any of a variety of different types of municipal or enterprise equipment etc. . Any of such networked devices can be flexibly connected to distinct backbone fixed hotspot access networks mobile hotspot access networks etc. using the same or different wired wireless technologies.

A mobile device may for example operate as an AP to provide simultaneous access to multiple devices things which may then form ad hoc networks interconnecting devices ultimately connected to distinct backbone networks fixed hotspot and or mobile hotspot access networks. Devices e.g. any or all of the devices or network nodes discussed herein may for example have redundant technologies to access distinct backbone fixed hotspot and or mobile hotspot access networks for example for fault tolerance and or load balancing purposes e.g. utilizing multiple SIM cards etc. . A device may also for example simultaneously access distinct backbone fixed hotspot access networks and or mobile hotspot access networks belonging to the same provider or to different respective providers. Additionally for example a device can provide multiple accesses to another device thing e.g. via different channels radios etc. .

Referring back to the example End User Devices are shown with a wireless communication link to a backbone provider e.g. to one or more Backbone Providers and or Local Infrastructure Providers to a Fixed Hotspot Access Network to a Mobile Hotspot Access Network and to the Environment. Also for example the example End User Devices are shown with a wired communication link to a backbone provider to a Fixed Hotspot Access Network to a Mobile Hotspot Access Network and to the Environment.

The example network illustrated in has a flexible architecture that is adaptable at implementation time e.g. for different use cases and or adaptable in real time for example as network components enter and leave service. illustrate such flexibility by providing example modes or configurations . The example networks may for example share any or all characteristics with the other example methods nodes networks and or network components and shown and or discussed herein. For example and without limitation any or all of the communication links e.g. wired links wireless links etc. shown in the example networks are generally analogous to similarly positioned communication links shown in the example network of .

For example various aspects of this disclosure provide communication network architectures systems and methods for supporting a dynamically configurable communication network comprising a complex array of both static and moving communication nodes e.g. the Internet of moving things . For example a communication network implemented in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure may operate in one of a plurality of modalities comprising various fixed nodes mobile nodes and or a combination thereof which are selectable to yield any of a variety of system goals e.g. increased throughput reduced latency and packet loss increased availability and robustness of the system extra redundancy increased responsiveness increased security in the transmission of data and or control packets reduced number of configuration changes by incorporating smart thresholds e.g. change of technology change of certificate change of IP etc. providing connectivity in dead zones or zones with difficult access reducing the costs for maintenance and accessing the equipment for updating upgrading etc. . At least some of such modalities may for example be entirely comprised of fixed position nodes at least temporarily if not permanently.

For illustrative simplicity many of the example aspects shown in the example system or network of and other Figures herein are omitted from but may be present. For example the Cloud Internet and ISP aspects shown in and in other Figures are not explicitly shown in but may be present in any of the example configurations e.g. as part of the backbone provider network or coupled thereto as part of the local infrastructure provider network or coupled thereto etc. .

For example the first example mode is presented as a normal execution mode for example a mode or configuration in which all of the components discussed herein are present. For example the communication system in the first example mode comprises a backbone provider network a local infrastructure provider network a fixed hotspot access network a mobile hotspot access network end user devices and environment devices.

As shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the first example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network or any component thereof fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via a wired link. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary. Also note that in various example configurations the backbone provider network may also at least temporarily be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof via one or more wired or tethered links.

Also shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the first example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Also note that in various example configurations the backbone provider network may also be communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network via one or more wireless or non tethered links.

Though not shown in the first example mode or any of the example modes of one or more servers may be communicatively coupled to the backbone provider network and or the local infrastructure network. provides an example of cloud servers being communicatively coupled to the backbone provider network via the Internet.

As additionally shown in and in in more detail the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the first example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the backbone provider network or any component thereof fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wired links. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary. Also note that in various example configurations the local infrastructure provider network may also at least temporarily be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof via one or more wired or tethered links.

Also though not explicitly shown the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the first example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the backbone provider network or any component thereof the fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Note that the communication link shown in the first example mode of between the local infrastructure provider network and the fixed hotspot access network may be wired and or wireless.

The fixed hotspot access network is also shown in the first example mode to be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Additionally the mobile hotspot access network is further shown in the first example mode to be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Further the end user devices are also shown in the first example mode to be communicatively coupled to the environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Note that in various example implementations any of such wireless links may instead or in addition comprise a wired or tethered link.

In the first example mode e.g. the normal mode information or data may be communicated between an end user device and a server e.g. a computer system via the mobile hotspot access network the fixed hotspot access network the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network. As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an end user device and a server via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc. For example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the fixed hotspot access network the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network . Also for example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network fixed hotspot access network and or local infrastructure provider network .

Similarly in the first example mode e.g. the normal mode information or data may be communicated between an environment device and a server via the mobile hotspot access network the fixed hotspot access network the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network. Also for example an environment device may communicate with or through an end user device e.g. instead of or in addition to the mobile hotspot access network . As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an environment device and a server e.g. communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network and or backbone provider network via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc.

For example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the fixed hotspot access network the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network . Also for example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network fixed hotspot access network and or local infrastructure provider network . Additionally for example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network and or fixed hotspot access network .

As discussed herein the example networks presented herein are adaptively configurable to operate in any of a variety of different modes or configurations . Such adaptive configuration may occur at initial installation and or during subsequent controlled network evolution e.g. adding or removing any or all of the network components discussed herein expanding or removing network capacity adding or removing coverage areas adding or removing services etc. . Such adaptive configuration may also occur in real time for example in response to real time changes in network conditions e.g. networks or components thereof being available or not based on vehicle or user device movement network or component failure network or component replacement or augmentation activity network overloading etc. . The following example modes are presented to illustrate characteristics of various modes in which a communication system may operate in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure. The following example modes will generally be discussed in relation to the first example mode e.g. the normal execution mode . Note that such example modes are merely illustrative and not limiting.

The second example mode or configuration e.g. a no backbone available mode may for example share any or all characteristics with the first example mode albeit without the backbone provider network and communication links therewith. For example the communication system in the second example mode comprises a local infrastructure provider network a fixed hotspot access network a mobile hotspot access network end user devices and environment devices.

As shown in and in in more detail the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the second example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wired links. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary. Also note that in various example configurations the local infrastructure provider network may also at least temporarily be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof via one or more wired or tethered links.

Also though not explicitly shown the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the second example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Note that the communication link s shown in the second example mode of between the local infrastructure provider network and the fixed hotspot access network may be wired and or wireless.

The fixed hotspot access network is also shown in the second example mode to be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Additionally the mobile hotspot access network is further shown in the second example mode to be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Further the end user devices are also shown in the second example mode to be communicatively coupled to the environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Note that in various example implementations any of such wireless links may instead or in addition comprise a wired or tethered link.

In the second example mode e.g. the no backbone available mode information or data may be communicated between an end user device and a server e.g. a computer etc. via the mobile hotspot access network the fixed hotspot access network and or the local infrastructure provider network. As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an end user device and a server via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc. For example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the fixed hotspot access network and or the local infrastructure provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network . Also for example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network and or fixed hotspot access network .

Similarly in the second example mode e.g. the no backbone available mode information or data may be communicated between an environment device and a server via the mobile hotspot access network the fixed hotspot access network and or the local infrastructure provider network. Also for example an environment device may communicate with or through an end user device e.g. instead of or in addition to the mobile hotspot access network . As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an environment device and a server e.g. communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc.

For example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the fixed hotspot access network and or the local infrastructure provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network . Also for example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network and or fixed hotspot access network .

The second example mode may be utilized for any of a variety of reasons non limiting examples of which are provided herein. For example due to security and or privacy goals the second example mode may be utilized so that communication access to the public Cloud systems the Internet in general etc. is not allowed. For example all network control and management functions may be within the local infrastructure provider network e.g. wired local network etc. and or the fixed access point network.

In an example implementation the communication system might be totally owned operated and or controlled by a local port authority. No extra expenses associated with cellular connections need be spent. For example cellular connection capability e.g. in Mobile APs Fixed APs end user devices environment devices etc. need not be provided. Note also that the second example mode may be utilized in a scenario in which the backbone provider network is normally available but is currently unavailable e.g. due to server failure due to communication link failure due to power outage due to a temporary denial of service etc. .

The third example mode or configuration e.g. a no local infrastructure and fixed hotspots available mode may for example share any or all characteristics with the first example mode albeit without the local infrastructure provider network the fixed hotspot access network and communication links therewith. For example the communication system in the third example mode comprises a backbone provider network a mobile hotspot access network end user devices and environment devices.

As shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the third example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wired links. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary. Also note that in various example configurations the backbone provider network may also at least temporarily be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof via one or more wired or tethered links.

Also shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the third example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links.

The mobile hotspot access network is further shown in the third example mode to be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Further the end user devices are also shown in the third example mode to be communicatively coupled to the environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Note that in various example implementations any of such wireless links may instead or in addition comprise a wired or tethered link.

In the third example mode e.g. the no local infrastructure and fixed hotspots available mode information or data may be communicated between an end user device and a server e.g. a computer etc. via the mobile hotspot access network and or the backbone provider network. As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an end user device and a server via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc. For example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network .

Similarly in the third example mode e.g. the no local infrastructure and fixed hotspots available mode information or data may be communicated between an environment device and a server via the mobile hotspot access network and or the backbone provider network. Also for example an environment device may communicate with or through an end user device e.g. instead of or in addition to the mobile hotspot access network . As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an environment device and a server e.g. communicatively coupled to the backbone provider network via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc. For example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network .

In the third example mode all control management functions may for example be implemented within the Cloud. For example since the mobile hotspot access network does not have a communication link via a fixed hotspot access network the Mobile APs may utilize a direct connection e.g. a cellular connection with the backbone provider network or Cloud . If a Mobile AP does not have such capability the Mobile AP may also for example utilize data access provided by the end user devices communicatively coupled thereto e.g. leveraging the data plans of the end user devices .

The third example mode may be utilized for any of a variety of reasons non limiting examples of which are provided herein. In an example implementation the third example mode may be utilized in an early stage of a larger deployment for example deployment that will grow into another mode e.g. the example first mode example fourth mode etc. as more communication system equipment is installed. Note also that the third example mode may be utilized in a scenario in which the local infrastructure provider network and fixed hotspot access network are normally available but are currently unavailable e.g. due to equipment failure due to communication link failure due to power outage due to a temporary denial of service etc. .

The fourth example mode or configuration e.g. a no fixed hotspots available mode may for example share any or all characteristics with the first example mode albeit without the fixed hotspot access network and communication links therewith. For example the communication system in the fourth example mode comprises a backbone provider network a local infrastructure provider network a mobile hotspot access network end user devices and environment devices.

As shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the fourth example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wired links. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary. Also note that in various example configurations the backbone provider network may also at least temporarily be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof via one or more wired or tethered links.

Also shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the fourth example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Also note that in various example configurations the backbone provider network may also be communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network via one or more wireless or non tethered links.

As additionally shown in and in in more detail the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the fourth example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the backbone provider network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wired links. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary. Also note that in various example configurations the local infrastructure provider network may also at least temporarily be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof via one or more wired or tethered links.

Also though not explicitly shown the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the fourth example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the backbone provider network or any component thereof the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links.

The mobile hotspot access network is further shown in the fourth example mode to be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Further the end user devices are also shown in the fourth example mode to be communicatively coupled to the environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein.

In the fourth example mode e.g. the no fixed hotspots mode information or data may be communicated between an end user device and a server via the mobile hotspot access network the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network. As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an end user device and a server via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc. For example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network . Also for example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network and or local infrastructure provider network .

Similarly in the fourth example mode e.g. the no fixed hotspots available mode information or data may be communicated between an environment device and a server via the mobile hotspot access network the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network. Also for example an environment device may communicate with or through an end user device e.g. instead of or in addition to the mobile hotspot access network . As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an environment device and a server e.g. communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network and or backbone provider network via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc.

For example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network . Also for example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network and or local infrastructure provider network . Additionally for example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network e.g. skipping the mobile hotspot access network and or backbone provider network .

In the fourth example mode in an example implementation some of the control management functions may for example be implemented within the local backbone provider network e.g. within a client premises . For example communication to the local infrastructure provider may be performed through the backbone provider network or Cloud . Note that in a scenario in which there is a direct communication pathway between the local infrastructure provider network and the mobile hotspot access network such communication pathway may be utilized.

For example since the mobile hotspot access network does not have a communication link via a fixed hotspot access network the Mobile APs may utilize a direct connection e.g. a cellular connection with the backbone provider network or Cloud . If a Mobile AP does not have such capability the Mobile AP may also for example utilize data access provided by the end user devices communicatively coupled thereto e.g. leveraging the data plans of the end user devices .

The fourth example mode may be utilized for any of a variety of reasons non limiting examples of which are provided herein. In an example implementation the fourth example mode may be utilized in an early stage of a larger deployment for example a deployment that will grow into another mode e.g. the example first mode etc. as more communication system equipment is installed. The fourth example mode may for example be utilized in a scenario in which there is no fiber or other connection available for Fixed APs e.g. in a maritime scenario in a plantation scenario etc. or in which a Fixed AP is difficult to access or connect. For example one or more Mobile APs of the mobile hotspot access network may be used as gateways to reach the Cloud. The fourth example mode may also for example be utilized when a vehicle fleet and or the Mobile APs associated therewith are owned by a first entity and the Fixed APs are owned by another entity and there is no present agreement for communication between the Mobile APs and the Fixed APs. Note also that the fourth example mode may be utilized in a scenario in which the fixed hotspot access network is normally available but are currently unavailable e.g. due to equipment failure due to communication link failure due to power outage due to a temporary denial of service etc. .

The fifth example mode or configuration e.g. a no mobile hotspots available mode may for example share any or all characteristics with the first example mode albeit without the mobile hotspot access network and communication links therewith. For example the communication system in the fifth example mode comprises a backbone provider network a local infrastructure provider network a fixed hotspot access network end user devices and environment devices.

As shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the fifth example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network or any component thereof fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wired links. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary.

Also shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the fifth example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Also note that in various example configurations the backbone provider network may also be communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network via one or more wireless or non tethered links.

As additionally shown in and in in more detail the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the fifth example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the backbone provider network or any component thereof fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wired links. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary. Also note that in various example configurations the local infrastructure provider network may also at least temporarily be communicatively coupled to the mobile hotspot access network or any component thereof via one or more wired or tethered links.

Also though not explicitly shown the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the fifth example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the backbone provider network the fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Note that the communication link s shown in the fifth example mode of between the local infrastructure provider network and the fixed hotspot access network may be wired and or wireless.

The fixed hotspot access network is also shown in the fifth example mode to be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Further the end user devices are also shown in the fifth example mode to be communicatively coupled to the environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein.

In the fifth example mode e.g. the no mobile hotspots available mode information or data may be communicated between an end user device and a server via the fixed hotspot access network the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network. As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an end user device and a server via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc. For example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the fixed hotspot access network . Also for example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the fixed hotspot access network and or local infrastructure provider network .

Similarly in the fifth example mode e.g. the no mobile hotspots available mode information or data may be communicated between an environment device and a server via the fixed hotspot access network the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network. Also for example an environment device may communicate with or through an end user device e.g. instead of or in addition to the fixed hotspot access network . As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an environment device and a server e.g. communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network and or backbone provider network via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc.

For example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network and or the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the fixed hotspot access network . Also for example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the backbone provider network e.g. skipping the fixed hotspot access network and or local infrastructure provider network . Additionally for example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network e.g. skipping the fixed hotspot access network and or the backbone provider network .

In the fifth example mode in an example implementation the end user devices and environment devices may communicate directly to Fixed APs e.g. utilizing Ethernet Wi Fi etc. . Also for example the end user devices and or environment devices may communicate directly with the backbone provider network e.g. utilizing cellular connections etc. .

The fifth example mode may be utilized for any of a variety of reasons non limiting examples of which are provided herein. In an example implementation in which end user devices and or environment devices may communicate directly with Fixed APs such communication may be utilized instead of Mobile AP communication. For example the fixed hotspot access network might provide coverage for all desired areas.

Note also that the fifth example mode may be utilized in a scenario in which the fixed hotspot access network is normally available but is currently unavailable e.g. due to equipment failure due to communication link failure due to power outage due to a temporary denial of service etc. .

The sixth example mode or configuration e.g. the no fixed mobile hotspots and local infrastructure available mode may for example share any or all characteristics with the first example mode albeit without the local infrastructure provider network fixed hotspot access network mobile hotspot access network and communication links therewith. For example the communication system in the sixth example mode comprises a backbone provider network end user devices and environment devices.

As shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the sixth example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wired links. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary.

Also shown in and in in more detail the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the sixth example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the backbone provider network may be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links.

The end user devices are also shown in the sixth example mode to be communicatively coupled to the environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein.

In the sixth example mode e.g. the no fixed mobile hotspots and local infrastructure available mode information or data may be communicated between an end user device and a server via the backbone provider network. Similarly in the sixth example mode e.g. the no fixed mobile hotspots and local infrastructure mode information or data may be communicated between an environment device and a server via the backbone provider network. Also for example an environment device may communicate with or through an end user device e.g. instead of or in addition to the mobile hotspot access network .

The sixth example mode may be utilized for any of a variety of reasons non limiting examples of which are provided herein. In an example implementation for example in which an end user has not yet subscribed to the communication system the end user device may subscribe to the system through a Cloud application and by communicating directly with the backbone provider network e.g. via cellular link etc. . The sixth example mode may also for example be utilized in rural areas in which Mobile AP presence is sparse Fixed AP installation is difficult or impractical etc.

Note also that the sixth example mode may be utilized in a scenario in which the infrastructure provider network fixed hotspot access network and or mobile hotspot access network are normally available but are currently unavailable e.g. due to equipment failure due to communication link failure due to power outage due to a temporary denial of service etc. .

The seventh example mode or configuration e.g. the no backbone and mobile hotspots available mode may for example share any or all characteristics with the first example mode albeit without the backbone provider network mobile hotspot access network and communication links therewith. For example the communication system in the seventh example mode comprises a local infrastructure provider network fixed hotspot access network end user devices and environment devices.

As shown in and in in more detail the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the seventh example mode or configuration via one or more wired or tethered links. For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wired links. Note that such a wired coupling may be temporary.

Also though not explicitly shown the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to any or all of the other elements present in the seventh example mode or configuration via one or more wireless links e.g. RF link non tethered optical link etc. . For example the local infrastructure provider network may be communicatively coupled to the fixed hotspot access network or any component thereof the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Note that the communication link shown in the seventh example mode of between the local infrastructure provider network and the fixed hotspot access network may be wired and or wireless.

The fixed hotspot access network is also shown in the seventh example mode to be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Additionally the end user devices are also shown in the seventh example mode to be communicatively coupled to the environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein.

In the seventh example mode e.g. the no backbone and mobile hotspots available mode information or data may be communicated between an end user device and a server via the fixed hotspot access network and or the local infrastructure provider network. As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an end user device and a server via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc. For example information communicated between an end user device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network e.g. skipping the fixed hotspot access network .

Similarly in the seventh example mode e.g. the no backbone and mobile hotspots available mode information or data may be communicated between an environment device and a server via the fixed hotspot access network and or the local infrastructure provider network. Also for example an environment device may communicate with or through an end user device e.g. instead of or in addition to the mobile hotspot access network . As will be seen in the various example modes presented herein such communication may flexibly occur between an environment device and a server e.g. communicatively coupled to the local infrastructure provider network via any of a variety of different communication pathways for example depending on the availability of a network depending on bandwidth utilization goals depending on communication priority depending on communication time or latency and or reliability constraints depending on cost etc. For example information communicated between an environment device and a server may be communicated via the local infrastructure provider network e.g. skipping the fixed hotspot access network .

The seventh example mode may be utilized for any of a variety of reasons non limiting examples of which are provided herein. In an example controlled space implementation Cloud access might not be provided e.g. for security reasons privacy reasons etc. and full or sufficient coverage of the coverage area is provided by the fixed hotspot access network and thus the mobile hotspot access network is not needed. For example the end user devices and environment devices may communicate directly e.g. via Ethernet Wi Fi etc. with the Fixed APs

Note also that the seventh example mode may be utilized in a scenario in which the backbone provider network and or fixed hotspot access network are normally available but are currently unavailable e.g. due to equipment failure due to communication link failure due to power outage due to a temporary denial of service etc. .

The eighth example mode or configuration e.g. the no backbone fixed hotspots and local infrastructure available mode may for example share any or all characteristics with the first example mode albeit without the backbone provider network local infrastructure provider network fixed hotspot access network and communication links therewith. For example the communication system in the eighth example mode comprises a mobile hotspot access network end user devices and environment devices.

As shown in and in in more detail the mobile hotspot access network is shown in the eighth example mode to be communicatively coupled to the end user devices and or environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein. Further the end user devices are also shown in the eighth example mode to be communicatively coupled to the environment devices via one or more wireless links. Many examples of such wireless coupling are provided herein.

In the eighth example mode e.g. the no backbone fixed hotspots and local infrastructure available mode information or data might not at least currently be communicated between an end user device and a server e.g. a coupled to the backbone provider network local infrastructure provider network etc. . Similarly information or data might not at least currently be communicated between an environment device and a server e.g. a coupled to the backbone provider network local infrastructure provider network etc. . Note that the environment device may communicate with or through an end user device e.g. instead of or in addition to the mobile hotspot access network .

The eighth example mode may be utilized for any of a variety of reasons non limiting examples of which are provided herein. In an example implementation the eighth example mode may be utilized for gathering and or serving data e.g. in a delay tolerant networking scenario providing peer to peer communication through the mobile hotspot access network e.g. between clients of a single Mobile AP between clients of respective different Mobile APs etc. etc. In another example scenario the eighth example mode may be utilized in a scenario in which vehicle to vehicle communications are prioritized above vehicle to infrastructure communications. In yet another example scenario the eighth example mode may be utilized in a scenario in which all infrastructure access is lost e.g. in tunnels parking garages etc. .

Note also that the eighth example mode may be utilized in a scenario in which the backbone provider network local infrastructure provider network and or fixed hotspot access network are normally available but are currently unavailable e.g. due to equipment failure due to communication link failure due to power outage due to a temporary denial of service etc. .

As shown and discussed herein it is beneficial to have a generic platform that allows multi mode communications of multiple users or machines within different environments using multiple devices with multiple technologies connected to multiple moving static things with multiple technologies forming wireless mesh hotspot networks over different environments connected to multiple wired wireless infrastructure network backbone providers ultimately connected to the Internet Cloud or private network infrastructure.

As shown in a Shipping Controller for example a shipping container management system e.g. a port management system a train management system a trucking management system etc. may be communicatively coupled to the network e.g. to the Cloud to the infrastructure etc. in any of a variety of manners. The Shipping Controller or any portion thereof may for example be implemented in a Network Operations Center NOC etc. For example the Shipping Controller may be connected to a Cloud of a network operator for example a Back end Network e.g. through APIs via a Private Network via the Internet via a Telco Network any combination thereof etc. . For example the Shipping Controller may be communicatively coupled to any of the nodes via a backhaul network.

Also as shown in a vehicle network may be connected e.g. communicatively coupled directly or indirectly to one or more local Container Sensors and Video Cameras Infrared Sensors Environmental Hazard Sensors etc. The vehicle network may for example comprise any or all of the nodes discussed herein. For example the vehicle network may comprise one or more Network Controllers NCs e.g. NC NC . . . NC N etc. one or more Fixed APs e.g. FAP FAP . . . FAP Y etc. one or more Mobile APs e.g. MAP MAP MAP . . . MAP M etc. etc. Such nodes may for example be communicatively coupled in any of the manners discussed herein.

As shown in the network of moving things may comprise a plurality of vehicles each with a respective local vehicle network that may be coupled to other vehicle networks user devices e.g. smart phones personal computing devices smart watches scanners etc. smart containers comprising any of a variety of sensors e.g. container sensors environmental sensors position sensors inertial sensors cameras microphones temperature sensors humidity sensors gas and or particle sensors weight sensors light sensors etc. sensors apart from containers e.g. container sensors environmental sensors position sensors inertial sensors cameras microphones temperature and or infrared sensors humidity sensors gas and or particle sensors weight sensors etc. etc. For example a smart shipping container may comprise any of a variety of sensors and or communication circuitry that may communicatively couple the smart container to a vehicle network of the network of moving things. A shipping container may for example comprise visual and or RF identification tags a shipping container may comprise circuitry that operates to communicate information of the shipping container s identity contents source destination location and or travel route age of contents temperature special handling needs conditions to which the contents have been exposed etc.

In a communication network constructed in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure a campus wide port wide distribution center wide city wide nation wide etc. network of sensors may be utilized to understand shipping dynamics in ways that were previously not possible or practical. Information gathered from shipping related sensors can be very useful when making decisions that affect how shipping is performed. Such information provides a way to plan or schedule the utilization of shipping resources based on historical data and also a way to deviate from planned operation in response to detected real time conditions e.g. unexpected conditions etc. encountered during execution of a plan. Additionally access to such data improves awareness of shipping problems or potential problems that may otherwise go unnoticed and or unnoticed for an unacceptably long period of time.

In accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure information retrieved from sensors e.g. shipping container related sensors etc. and communicated over the network of moving things is utilized to manage and optimize operations of the various shipping services provided to enterprises involved in shipping operations enterprises or citizens utilizing shipping services etc. Additionally for example data gathered from sensors e.g. shipping container related sensors etc. may be provided to municipal entities for example organizations and or enterprises involved in providing infrastructure or access thereto for shipping. For example such data may be utilized for traffic planning road and or rail maintenance activities new infrastructure planning and or maintenance of existing infrastructure fuel and or other energy resource planning etc. Further for example sensors related to shipping e.g. shipping container related sensors etc. may provide data by which a municipality or other government organization may detect environmental hazards or potential hazards in a timely manner.

In accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure a network of moving things is utilized to collect or harvest data from multiple types of sensors scattered around a port distribution center campus city etc. positioned within or on shipping containers positioned aboard vehicles e.g. vehicles involved with shipping container management and or movement vehicles entirely unrelated to shipping etc. embedded within user handheld devices and or clothing etc. The network of moving things may for example deliver the collected sensor data to the Cloud in a reliable and affordable manner providing for massive sensor data collections. The network of moving things is thus able to provide valuable data about cargo flow and its dynamics to enterprises municipalities e.g. infrastructure management committees etc. and other organizations for example integrating a variety of types of data learning and analytics approaches.

In accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure the network of moving things provides for storage of the gathered data and provides for access to the gathered data. For example access to the gathered data is provided at high levels of the network of moving things e.g. at the Cloud at the infrastructure level etc. and or at the low levels of the network e.g. at the Mobile APs at the Fixed APs etc. .

In an example implementation an extensive set of low cost low power e.g. battery operated solar operated wind operated etc. sensors are positioned throughout a shipyard train yard truck yard neighborhood municipality highway system etc. Such sensors are able to communicate with access points e.g. Mobile APs Fixed APs etc. of the network of moving things for example utilizing Wi Fi or other wireless LAN technology personal area networking PAN technology inter vehicle communication technology etc. Additionally such sensors may operate to communicate in accordance with any of a variety of communication protocols that have been developed for low power communication e.g. the CoAP protocol etc. . If battery powered sensors are generally operable in various low power modes in which the sensors may be wakened as needed e.g. wakened by a passing Mobile AP waked by a timer wakened by movement wakened by sound etc. to gather and or communicate sensor data.

In accordance with various aspects of the present of disclosure as vehicles of the network of moving things e.g. the Internet of Moving Things go about their general duties e.g. as cargo loading unloading vehicles as cargo transportation vehicles as shipping management or oversight vehicles as buses as waste collecting vehicles as roadway maintenance vehicles as mail delivery vehicles as emergency services vehicles as private transportation vehicles etc. such vehicles e.g. Mobile APs or OBUs thereof may operate to interact with sensors e.g. sensors in or on shipping containers sensors in or on the vehicles sensors separate from shipping contains and the vehicles etc. . Such sensors may for example directly concern operation of the respective vehicle but in general such sensors might be unrelated to the operation of the vehicle gathering the sensor data. For example a passing bus may collect sensor information concerning the fullness of a shipping container an environment inside a shipping container a travel route of a shipping container contents of a shipping container shock conditions experienced by a shipping container etc.

The collected data may for example be temporarily stored in the vehicle e.g. in a memory of or attached to the Mobile AP etc. . In various example scenarios the collected data may also be processed onboard the vehicle e.g. in a processor of the Mobile AP in a processor of the vehicle etc. for example to calculate metrics to summarize the data to compress the data etc. In such scenarios the collected data and or information characterizing the collected data may be immediately delivered to the Cloud or may be delivered to the Cloud in a delay tolerant manner e.g. to reduce communication costs etc. .

Once the retrieved sensor data and or metrics reach the Cloud such sensor data and or metrics may be provided to users in a raw format or processed to enhance usefulness. For example a suite of APIs may be provided in the Cloud that provides convenient access to the gathered data and or metrics for client or controller analysis. Additionally in an example scenario sensor data may also be delivered at the user level e.g. sensor data regarding shipping container conditions cargo health shipping container planned or actual route travel restrictions for a shipping container environmental conditions of a shipping container weather conditions sensor data regarding operation of the vehicle data associated with any of a variety of sensors on board the vehicle etc. .

Any of a variety of types of analysis may be performed on the gathered data for example to improve the shipping services offered by organizations and individuals. Various non limiting example scenarios involving shipping or shipping container management are presented herein. It should be understood that the scope of this disclosure is not limited by characteristics of the example shipping scenarios or of any examples presented herein.

In an example scenario an enterprise or government organization managing shipping e.g. at a port at a train yard at a trucking depot or distribution center in a city over a highway infrastructure etc. can optimize shipping e.g. shipping container and or vehicle routes schedules etc. based on current shipping needs traffic and or weather conditions etc. Note that even in a scenario in which an optimal shipping service plan is implemented real time data associated with shipping containers or vehicles moving such vehicles environmental conditions cargo conditions shipping deadlines etc. may also be considered to adjust such shipping service plan.

Turning next to such figure shows a block diagram of an example communication network in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure. The example scenario may for example be implemented in a network and or network component that shares any or all characteristics with the other example methods nodes networks and or network components and shown and or discussed herein.

As shown in the example network a Private Port Network may be coupled to the proprietary Cloud of an operator of the network of moving things and or to a general public Cloud e.g. the Internet etc. . The example Private Port Network comprises or is communicatively coupled to a Network Operations Center NOC that provides a user interface to manage operation of a port. The example Cloud is connected e.g. communicatively coupled to for example directly or via one or more intervening networks to a plurality of Fixed APs and a cellular network or base station etc. as discussed herein. Also as discussed herein the Fixed APs and and the cellular base station may be communicatively coupled to Mobile APs and of the network of moving of things. The Mobile APs and and or Fixed APs and of the example network may communicatively couple to smart shipping containers and or sensors thereof at the port. The smart shipping containers and may for example comprise on board sensors that monitor any of a variety of conditions related to the containers e.g. container location and or travel route temperature vibration or shock history spatial orientation history noise interior environment exterior environment power supply status weight security mechanisms access etc. . The smart shipping containers may also for example comprise memory in which information describing the container and or contents thereof movement history ownership source destination delivery time constraints value etc. may be stored. For example the memory may store information describing container contents a log of container events and travels current destination and source time in transit dates times when opened and closed inspection details whether the container is empty or full or to what extent the container is filled cautions associated with the container and or its contents shipping due date or travel schedule whether the container is powered or not whether the container has passed inspection etc.

In various example implementations the sensor information e.g. shipping container related sensor information shipping container movement plan information sensor data collection plan information etc. may be stored in one or more databases in the Cloud for example in a raw format or various metrics may be derived as requested by the Network Operations Center NOC e.g. a Shipping Controller a Shipping Container Manager etc. of a Private Port Network etc. Though various examples may be presented herein in the context of a shipping port the scope of this disclosure should not be limited to such context. For example the scope of this disclosure readily extends to any of a variety of types of shipping operations e.g. sea going vessels trains trucks bikes etc. . The NOC may for example periodically access the Cloud or database thereof e.g. through specific Cloud APIs etc. to gather the information e.g. in a solicited or pull manner or the information can be sent directly to the NOC without waiting for a request e.g. in an unsolicited or push manner .

The example network may for example provide the capability for the NOC to communicate with any or all nodes or sensors discussed herein via a backbone communication network e.g. directly via a cellular communication network via a cellular communication network and second Mobile AP and or other nodes of a vehicle communication network etc. . The example network may also for example provide the capability for the NOC to communicate with any or all nodes or sensors discussed herein via various nodes of a vehicle communication network e.g. with a first container sensor via a first Fixed AP with a second container sensor and or a third container sensor via a second Fixed AP and a first Mobile AP with a fourth container sensor via a second Fixed AP first Mobile AP and second Mobile AP etc. . The example network may also for example provide the capability for the NOC to communicate with any Fixed or Mobile AP of the vehicle communication network e.g. with a first Mobile AP via a second Fixed AP with a second Mobile AP via a cellular communication network etc. . In general the NOC may communicate information with any node or sensor via any of the communication pathways discussed herein.

Note that the communication pathway s selected for communication between a NOC e.g. a central shipping controller etc. or distributed shipping controller and other nodes or sensors may be specified in a configuration profile and may be adaptable in real time. For example in an emergency or high priority scenario a central shipping controller or distributed shipping controller may communicate with a local sensor e.g. a shipping container sensor and or Mobile AP or vehicle thereof via a cellular network. Also for example during a normal or low priority or non emergency scenario the central shipping controller or distributed shipping controller may communicate with a local sensor and or Mobile AP via the vehicle communication network. In another example scenario the central shipping controller may e.g. for a particular type of vehicle for example a public transportation vehicle or other vehicle not related to shipping activity be configured to always communicate with the Mobile AP thereof via the vehicle network or to always communicate via the vehicle network unless in a failover situation.

A network of moving things in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure provides a diverse set of organizations the opportunity to participate in and or benefit from the network of moving things. For example as discussed herein the Cloud e.g. a database thereof a Central Shipping Controller server thereof etc. collects the sensor data stores the sensor data and provides access to the data e.g. through APIs to the organizations or systems or servers thereof having interest in the data. Also for example the Cloud may comprise data processing algorithms e.g. executed by servers in the Cloud etc. as desired that may also analyze the collected data for example calculating various metrics that are made readily accessible to the organizations. Note that such access may be restricted in accordance with the security needs of the organizations. Accordingly governments citizens service organizations ports municipalities trucking centers train yards etc. may all develop a better understanding of the problems to be managed and or the services to be provided.

As more and more data is collected and stored smart algorithms for example based on machine learning techniques may be utilized to build predictive models of shipping dynamics for example shipping container routes or plans storage plans traffic flows etc. allowing for the efficient utilization of shipping resources municipal infrastructure resources manpower resources storage resources maintenance resources energy resources etc. For example the collected sensor data e.g. shipping container related data etc. may be analyzed to determine or infer the trends demands for shipping etc. Also for example the provisioning of resources may be optimized to make the most of available resources e.g. port or distribution center resources loading unloading equipment cargo moving resources shipping resources transportation infrastructure resources human resources machine resources monetary resources maintenance resources etc. . Additionally for example with a relatively large set of data e.g. a large statistical sample size such data may be analyzed to reliably predict need but may also be analyzed to detect anomalies that are in need of further investigation. For example the detection of a statistically unlikely event e.g. a value unexpectedly above a particular threshold or statistical control number an unlikely trend in the data etc. may trigger an investigation.

As discussed herein different types of sensor data may have different respective reporting or analysis priorities. Priority may also for example be a function of time of day and or day of week a function of the data itself e.g. data indicating an emergency condition data indicating an unexpected environmental condition data indicating a lost condition data indicating a shipping container condition of concern data indicating an unanticipated container access data indicating an unexpected shock or impact data indicating an unexpected temperature etc. a function of a user input from the Cloud indicating that a particular type of data is presently high priority data a function of geographical location etc. Thus in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the manner in which the collected data is communicated to the Cloud or to a client directly through the network of moving things is adaptable. For example as discussed herein delay tolerant data may be propagated through the network as convenient and or economically prudent but real time critical data may be propagated through the network via a fastest and or most reliable path e.g. via a cellular path via a fastest infrastructure path via multiple paths for redundancy etc. . The network of moving things is capable of providing these options.

The manner in which the sensor data is processed and or the equipment performing the processing may also adapt based on time constraints. For example when the processing of particular data e.g. shipping container identification and or location data shipping container environmental condition data etc. is not relatively urgent such processing may be performed in the Cloud at some point after the collected data is accumulated. Also for example when the processing of particular data is real time critical e.g. for location of a lost shipping container for reporting a dangerous or potentially dangerous environmental condition inside or outside of a shipping container for an emergency waste clean up situation etc. the analyzing of such data may be performed in the network closer to the source e.g. at a Mobile AP at a computer that is part of the network of a vehicle at a local Network Controller etc. .

As discussed herein the security integrity and privacy of the collected data may be a concern. Accordingly the various levels of the network of moving things may comprise respective security measures e.g. token based authentication for API access Datagram Transport Layer Security DTLS functionality for communication between sensors and vehicles general cryptographic capability etc. .

Note that although the examples presented herein generally focus on shipping container sensors the scope of this disclosure is not limited thereto. For example sensors separate from smart containers but generally related to port and or shipping operations may be incorporated into the system as well e.g. movement cameras environmental sensors infrared or other temperature sensors x ray sensors weight sensors container inspection sensors container measuring sensors sensors for vehicles utilized in port operations personal sensors for port operators traffic sensors etc. .

A network of moving things in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure may substantially reduce the occurrence of lost or missing shipping containers. In an example scenario whenever a vehicle e.g. a vehicle that is related to shipping operations a vehicle that has no direct relationship to shipping operations etc. passes within communication range of a container a record of the container s location and or state or condition may be updated. For example a Mobile AP of the vehicle can communicate with the container and then communicate information of the container to the Cloud e.g. to a database of the Cloud etc. . The collected container information may be gathered and or communicated to the Cloud and thus be made available to the Private Port Network in a delay tolerant manner and or in a real time manner.

An accurate accounting of container locations and or conditions may provide for increased loading and or unloading efficiency. The routing of container movement vehicles e.g. trucks cranes forklifts trains ships etc. may be optimized increasing loading and unloading efficiency reducing traffic and thus emissions and fuel utilization and maintenance needs increasing safety through reduced traffic and tightly controlled traffic patterns etc.

Containers may for example comprise radio frequency identification RFID components QRCode or barcode components etc. Each vehicle e.g. Mobile AP or OBU thereof may for example comprise Dedicated Short Range Communication DSRC capabilities to facilitate connection e.g. continuous connection to the communication infrastructure of the port or distribution center e.g. to stationary communication nodes mobile communication nodes etc. . Also for example the OBUs may comprise memory in which to store collected container information and communicate such information to the Cloud e.g. to a database thereof whenever the opportunity arises e.g. when the Mobile AP is within range of a Fixed AP within range of another Mobile AP within range of a Wi Fi hotspot etc. .

Using the wireless capabilities the OBU can automatically detect which container will be moved. In case of a QRCode a handheld scanner device can be used by the operator or a vehicle mounted scanner may be utilized. The Mobile AP or OBU of the vehicle may then communicate the collected data to the Cloud e.g. using 802.11p technology cellular technology etc. . At the Cloud any of a variety of analytical tools may be utilized to process the collected data and or determine metrics therefrom. For example all of the information collected by and or communicated through the network of moving things may be accessible to a Network Operations Center NOC e.g. like the NOC of the Private Port Network etc. .

Attaching Crossing the ID of the container to the OBU that is directly associated with a truck ID plate all of the information that comes from the container may be monitored and tracked in real time. For example even an unloaded truck without any container may be tracked. As discussed herein a driver may be provided with an optimized route to follow. As the driver s vehicle location is tracked if the driver is taking too long or if the driver is not on the correct path alerts may be displayed to the driver and or to a central shipping controller. Such alerts may for example be communicated to the driver inside or near the truck e.g. via smartphone tablet heads up display etc. . Also for example alerts may be communicated via a programmable sign e.g. a roadside information display . Note that in various scenarios alerts may also be provided directly to various municipal or government organizations e.g. law enforcement homeland security import export authorities etc. .

In accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure the network of moving things may be fully integrated with the Private Port Network e.g. via Cloud APIs . The efficiency of container delivery will be substantially increased. Location tracking will also be improved for example with real time monitoring of each container. Fuel consumption will be decreased. The drivers may spend more time within the vehicle resulting in increased operator safety. Reports may be efficiently formed for example detailing arriving and or leaving containers.

Utilizing a network of moving things in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure the collection of data may be highly automated for example without human intervention at the time of collection communication and or processing.

In an example implementation thermal cameras may be utilized to monitor refrigerated containers. Such containers may for example have issues effectively communicating information. The smart containers may for example comprise GPS capability. With GPS technology and having another dimension of information e.g. having 3D positioning information cellular triangulation capability etc. information that has been captured e.g. in parallel may be checked. This may for example be useful in cases in which precision is lacking and for debug validation. In an example scenario in which data was collected from two containers one from the top of a container stack and another from the ground level of the container stack there may be containers in the middle of the stack that are not collecting and or communicating information. Such containers may now be detected for example by building a three dimensional stacking model.

Note that as discussed herein for example with regard to Mobile APs smart containers may similarly be able to communicate with each other e.g. forming a container mesh network etc. . In such a scenario containers that may be shielded from a Mobile AP e.g. shielded by other containers etc. may communicate with a Mobile AP via other containers.

It should be noted that Fixed APs or non mobile or parked OBUs may be installed in dead zones and or parts of a port where there are no or few vehicles. Also though GPS has been discussed herein various other positioning technologies may also be utilized. For example DSRC triangulation may be utilized e.g. instead of GPS and or to augment GPS .

In an example port implementation for example in which the cranes stackers operators only know that they will receive a container with a few minutes notice the network and or system in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure provides for the efficient delivery of container information which may be utilized to more efficiently stage a set of containers for loading.

In another example implementation the Mobile APs in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure may be utilized to provide Wi Fi or other WLAN connectivity to users. For example as discussed herein the Mobile AP may provide connectivity to user devices of drivers and or passengers of a vehicle users outside of but nearby the vehicle etc.

In a further example implementation a boat or watercraft mesh may be created that extends out to sea beyond where conventional cellular is provided. In such a scenario freight information e.g. shipping container information etc. and or passenger information e.g. passenger identification information biometric data immigration or visa data etc. may be uploaded while a ship is still in international waters.

In yet another example implementation as discussed herein any of a variety of sensors may be incorporated into the system. Various sensors e.g. cameras impact sensors orientation sensors vehicle sensors microphones etc. may be utilized to detect accidents. Other information for example positioning information may also be utilized. In an example scenario that includes an accident the sensor information indicative of the details of the accident may be uploaded to the Cloud to assist the port authority or other agency in responding.

Note that cameras and biometric sensors which have been discussed herein may be utilized at port checkpoints to monitor employees and visitors. The personal security information may be communicated to the Cloud where information of persons of interest may be stored for comparison.

The example method begins executing at block . The example method may begin executing in response to any of a variety of causes or conditions non limiting examples of which are provided herein. For example the example method may begin executing in response to a user command to begin in response to a signal received from a network node e.g. from a networked database from a Central Shipping Controller e.g. a NOC etc. from a local shipping controller of a vehicle or MAP thereof from a networked client dashboard etc. in response to a detected shipping condition e.g. a shipping container condition a shipping vehicle condition a shipping service plan etc. in response to a detected emergency condition in response to a timer in response to a power up or turn on or reset event at the system implementing any or all aspects of the example method etc.

At block the example method comprises communicating with a Central Shipping Controller e.g. a port controller a trucking controller a distribution center controller etc. regarding one or more services being provided e.g. shipping services etc. or related conditions. Such communication may comprise any of a variety of characteristics. For example block may comprise receiving information from the Central Shipping Controller concerning how the Mobile AP is to conduct its data collection activities e.g. data collection control information . For example such information may comprise information concerning sensors e.g. shipping container sensors of smart shipping containers etc. with which the Mobile AP is to communicate to obtain sensor information e.g. sensor or container geographical location sensor or container network address and or other identifying information sensor or container type etc. . Also for example such information may comprise information identifying when the Mobile AP is to collect or gather data from various sensors. Additionally for example such information may comprise information regarding the manner in which the Mobile AP is to communicate collected data to the Central Shipping Controller or database s accessed thereby . For example such information may indicate whether data collected from a sensor is to be communicated immediately e.g. via a cellular communication network via the vehicle communication network etc. whether the data is to be communicated within a particular amount of time e.g. within a number of seconds within a number of minutes etc. whether the data has a higher priority than other data etc. Note that the communication of block may be performed at any time throughout execution of the example method for example at any block thereof.

The information received from the Central Shipping Controller may also for example comprise service providing command information. A Central Shipping Controller may for example communicate control commands to local shipping service providing vehicles or Mobile APs thereof for example to a container loading unloading vehicle a container transportation vehicle etc. Such commands may for example be originated by the Central Shipping Controller and communicated through one or more Mobile APs and or Fixed APs. In an example scenario a Central Shipping Controller may communicate a load command through a Mobile AP that is within communication range of a container loading vehicle or Mobile AP thereof capable of implementing the load. In another example scenario the Central Shipping Controller may communicate a no load command for a particular container loading vehicle to the vehicle communication network which then has the responsibility to propagate the command to the particular loading vehicle through one or more access points e.g. FAPs MAPs etc. that are geographically close to the particular loading vehicle.

In general block may comprise the Mobile AP communicating with a Central Shipping Controller regarding shipping and or data collecting. Accordingly the scope of this disclosure should not be limited by characteristics of any particular manner of such communicating of any particular type of information related to shipping and or data collection control etc.

At block the example method may comprise the Mobile AP collecting sensor data as the Mobile AP or vehicle carrying the Mobile AP travels along a route. Note that the route may be predefined e.g. a container collection and or movement route a port or distribution inspection route etc. partially defined e.g. a security patrol beat etc. generally random etc. In an example scenario the Mobile AP or vehicle or operator thereof may have received route information e.g. a shipping container collection plan etc. at block .

As the Mobile AP travels along the route the Mobile AP may operate to collect sensor data from sensors e.g. sensors in and or on shipping containers sensors in and or on a vehicle of the Mobile AP sensors positioned at specific locations and not coupled to shipping containers and or vehicles etc. along the route. Some or all of the sensors may for example have been identified at block . In an example scenario at block the Mobile AP may have received a list of secure sensors from which the Mobile AP is to collect data where the list includes geographical locations of the sensors security codes for the sensors operational characteristics e.g. sleep mode characteristics communication protocol characteristics etc. for the sensors instructions for how to handle data gathered from the sensors etc. Note that the Mobile AP may operate to collect data from a wide variety of different types of sensors each of which may be associated with a different respective type of service. As a Mobile AP gathers data from one or more sensors execution of the example method may flow to block . Note that block may comprise the Mobile AP collecting data directly from the sensor s but may also comprise collecting the data or related information by receiving the data from another node e.g. from another Mobile AP that has collected the data from a shipping container different from the shipping container originating the data from any other node of the communication networks discussed herein from a Central Shipping Controller etc. .

At block the example method may comprise determining whether the Mobile AP is to perform one or more actions related to the collected data. Such actions comprise any of a variety of characteristics. For example a first example action may comprise the Mobile AP communicating the collected data to a Cloud based database to a Cloud based Central Shipping Controller to a particular networked client system e.g. to a client s proprietary network to a NOC etc. to one or more other Mobile APs e.g. directly or through the vehicle communication network etc. to a fleet of Mobile APs corresponding to a particular service to a shipping control module on board the Mobile AP or corresponding vehicle etc.

In an example scenario the Mobile AP may analyze the collected sensor data to determine a manner in which to communicate the collected sensor data or information generally related to the collected sensor data . For example the Mobile AP may compare identity information e.g. shipping container identity information cargo identify information etc. to a list of identities e.g. a list of containers from which the Mobile AP is to collect sensor information a list of lost containers that the Mobile AP is to be on the lookout for etc. to determine whether and or how to communicate information related to a container. Also for example the Mobile AP may compare the collected sensor data to one or more threshold values to determine whether the Mobile AP should immediately communicate information related to the collected data e.g. through a cellular communication network through the vehicle communication network etc. whether the Mobile AP should communicate information related to the collected data to a destination relatively soon but with no real time constraints e.g. opportunistically through the vehicle communication network in a delay tolerant manner etc. whether the Mobile AP should wait until the end of a shift or route to communicate the information e.g. when the vehicle of the Mobile AP has returned to a hub or dispatch center etc. etc. In an example scenario the Mobile AP may have been informed e.g. at block etc. of the manner in which communication of information related to the collected sensor data is to be performed. Note that determining the manner in which information related to collected sensor data e.g. raw sensor data summarized sensor data compressed sensor data etc. is communicated may depend at least in part on the value of the data. For example the condition sensed by the sensor may determine the urgency with which information related to the collected sensor data is communicated.

A second example action may for example comprise the Mobile AP or other system of the vehicle carrying the Mobile AP analyzing the data to determine whether a service plan e.g. a shipping container loading plan a shipping container maintenance plan a travel plan etc. of the vehicle carrying the Mobile AP or other vehicle should be modified. In an example scenario the Mobile AP may be carried by a vehicle that is providing a shipping service to which the collected sensor is related. For example the Mobile AP may be carried by a shipping container loading and or transporting vehicle. The Mobile AP having received the sensor data or information related to the sensor data may analyze such data or information to determine whether the present shipping container loading plan guiding operation of the vehicle and crew thereof should be modified. For example as discussed herein an unexpected situation e.g. a lost shipping container that has been found a shipping container that is suspected of being tampered with a shipping container with a failing environmental control system etc. may arise while the vehicle is performing its shipping service duty according to a predefined shipping service plan e.g. which may have been received at block . In response to information related to the sensor data indicating that the shipping container is urgently in need of attention the Mobile AP may determine that the shipping service providing plan should be altered. Such a decision may for example be based at least in part on the sensor data value e.g. relative to a list of container identities etc. a sensor data level e.g. relative to one or more thresholds analyzed in light of statistical expectations e.g. averages standard deviations or variances etc. time of day day of week geographical location the location of the shipping container relative to the vehicle and or the vehicle s planned route e.g. whether the location has already been passed whether the location has yet to be passed etc. etc.

Other example actions that may be taken by the Mobile AP may for example comprise alerting a user e.g. a driver or controller of a vehicle a dispatcher etc. of a detected shipping container condition communicating to the sensor and or a customer associated with the sensor that the sensor data has been received and or successfully reported etc.

As mentioned herein information received by the Mobile AP at block may comprise information governing actions that the Mobile AP is to take with collected data. Such information may for example identify the criteria that must be met e.g. specific sensor data value sensor data level threshold time constraints etc. for any particular action to take the manner in which an action is to be performed the degree of autonomy that the Mobile AP has with regard to decision making e.g. whether the Mobile AP is free to make its own decisions whether the Mobile AP must ask for permission for a proposed action from a Central Shipping Controller before acting whether the Mobile AP may act autonomously only when received information e.g. sensor data etc. meets certain criteria only when a vehicle operator indicates human approval of a proposed action etc.

In general block may comprise determining whether the Mobile AP is to perform one or more actions related to the collected data. Accordingly the scope of the present disclosure should not be limited by characteristics of any particular action manner of determining whether to perform an action etc.

At block the example method comprises determining whether the vehicle s travel is complete. For example block may comprise determining whether a shipping vehicle s route or plan has been completed whether a security patrol has been completed whether a public transportation vehicle s route has been completed whether a road maintenance schedule for the day has been completed whether a postal delivery route has been completed whether a bus route has been completed etc. If not then execution of the example method flows back up to block or any block of the example method any method step discussed herein etc. for continued traveling sensor data collecting etc. If so then execution of the example method flows to block for continued operation.

At block the continued operation may comprise performing any of a variety of activities. For example as discussed herein particular types of information related to collected sensor data may be delay tolerant enough to communicate such information at the end of a route. For example as a vehicle returns to a dispatch center or hub at the end of a route or shift block may comprise communicating any or all of the information discussed herein via a wireless communication network of the dispatch center. Such operation may for example refrain from unnecessarily utilizing communication bandwidth of the vehicle communication network. Also for example block may comprise performing continued analysis of data communicating with other Mobile APs regarding the data collection activity or any other matter upgrading software forming and or downloading service or shipping plans for a next shift etc.

Various aspects of the present disclosure will now be presented with example operating scenarios. In an example scenario a Mobile AP e.g. at least one module thereof may operate to establish communication links directly with other mobile access points. For example as discussed herein a Mobile AP may form a vehicle mesh communication network that includes other Mobile APs Fixed APs Wi Fi hotspots cellular base stations smart containers etc. The Mobile AP or MAP may for example be carried by a vehicle that is providing a shipping service e.g. loading unloading shipping containers transporting shipping containers etc. . For example the Mobile AP may be carried by a crane fork lift moving van or truck ship etc. . Also for example the Mobile AP may be carried by a vehicle that is generally associated with the shipping enterprise e.g. providing harbor or distribution center security managing operations maintenance vehicles employee transport vehicles etc. but not directly involved with handling shipping containers. Additionally for example the Mobile AP may be carried by a vehicle that is not related to providing a shipping service e.g. a public transportation vehicle a road maintenance vehicle an emergency services vehicle a taxi a private vehicle a general transportation vehicle etc. .

The Mobile AP may also for example provide communication services e.g. wireless LAN communication services Internet access services proprietary network access services general communication services etc. to individuals for example personal communication devices thereof e.g. smart phones smart watches notepad computers laptop computers etc. . For example the Mobile AP may provide communication services to drivers and or passengers of the vehicle carrying the Mobile AP and or to persons nearby the vehicle and the communication services may be general communication services and or may be specifically dedicated to the providing of shipping services e.g. an enterprise VoIP phone etc. .

As the Mobile AP or vehicle thereof travels along a route e.g. a predetermined or defined route a random route a general but non specific route etc. the Mobile AP may operate to establish communication links directly with sensors positioned along a travel route of the MAP. For example as shipping container sensors or systems are within range of the Mobile AP note that the shipping containers and or Mobile APs may be moving the Mobile AP may collect shipping container related sensor data from the sensors. Many examples of shipping container related sensor data are provided herein.

The Mobile AP may then for example communicate information related to the collected shipping container related sensor data to a second system. For example the information related to the collected shipping container related sensor data may comprise raw data obtained from the sensor metrics calculated by the Mobile AP and related to the collected sensor data average values calculated by the Mobile AP compressed data location information shipping container identification data any of the sensor data discussed herein etc. The second system may for example comprise a Central Shipping Controller e.g. a Port Controller a Distribution Center Controller etc. and or Cloud database another Mobile AP a Fixed AP a user device communicatively coupled to the Mobile AP etc.

As discussed herein the Mobile AP may operate to select at least one of a plurality of manners in which to communicate the information to the second system e.g. in real time in a delay tolerant manner via a cellular link or other backbone network via the vehicle network via a detected Wi Fi hotspot etc. . In an example scenario the Mobile AP may operate to determine whether to communicate the information to the second system via a vehicle communication network and or via a cellular communication network. In another example scenario the Mobile AP may operate to determine whether to communicate the information to the second system in real time and or in a delay tolerant manner.

The Mobile AP may select the one or more of the plurality of manners in which to communicate in any of a variety of manners non limiting examples of which are provided herein. For example the Mobile AP may select one or more of the plurality of communication manners based at least in part on a value of the collected shipping container related sensor data. For example the Mobile AP may determine to immediately communicate sensor data indicative of a dangerous shipping container condition e.g. temperature or other sensed parameter outside of a safe range or range of acceptable values detected potential chemical spill detected biohazard detected radiation etc. to the second system. Also for example the Mobile AP may determine to immediately communicate sensor data indicative of a lost or stolen shipping container to the second system. Further for example the Mobile AP may determine to immediately communicate sensor data associated with a shipping container that e.g. based on time of day day of week date etc. is late or in danger of being late. Additionally for example the Mobile AP may determine to communicate information generally identifying shipping containers and their locations in a delay tolerant manner when the collected sensor data is indicative of a normal or expected shipping container condition. Also for example the Mobile AP may determine the manner in which to communicate information related to the collected sensor data based on a programmable profile downloaded to the Mobile AP e.g. configuration parameters indicating the conditions under which the Mobile AP is to communicate information related to the collected sensor data in various respective manners .

As discussed herein the Mobile AP may operate to collect sensor data based at least in part on data collection control information that is downloaded to the Mobile AP. Such downloading may for example be performed while the vehicle carrying the Mobile AP is not operating but may also be performed while the vehicle is traveling. For example a Central Shipping Controller or other node may determine that it wants additional information concerning a particular shipping container identify a next Mobile AP that is expected to be within range of the particular shipping container and download command or configuration information to such next Mobile AP to collected the desired data from the particular shipping container. As discussed herein such configuration or control information may indicate the manner in which the collected sensor data is to be collected communicated processed prior to communication or otherwise analyzed etc.

In an example scenario in which the Mobile AP fails to establish or adequately establish a communication link with a shipping container or sensor thereof the Mobile AP may communicate information identifying the shipping container to the second system. Such information may for example comprise location information bar code information RFID information size information video or still image information sensed temperature information information describing the failed attempts at communicating with the shipping container or sensor thereof etc.

In an example scenario e.g. a container monitoring scenario in which the Mobile AP collects shipping container sensor data from a shipping container where the data is normal and no potential emergency condition or other anomaly is detected the Mobile AP may determine to refrain from communicating information related to the collected sensor data or to communicate such information in a delay tolerant manner e.g. as an inexpensive or free communication link opportunistically becomes available at the end of a route or shift as a low priority communication through a vehicle communication network etc. . If however the Mobile AP e.g. by analyzing the collected data determines that the data is different from that expected e.g. has one or more values outside of expected range s etc. then the Mobile AP may determine to communicate information related to the collected data e.g. raw data processed data metrics calculated from the collected data etc. to the second system.

As discussed herein the Mobile AP may also establish communication links with and or collect data from any of a variety of sensors along the travel route of the Mobile AP in or on a vehicle carrying the Mobile AP etc. e.g. temperature sensors traffic sensors road condition sensors weather sensors video and or audio sensors gas particular sensors any of the sensors discussed herein etc. . The collected data may for example be associated with shipping but may also be entirely unrelated to shipping or shipping containers. The Mobile AP may communicate such collected data to the second system or other systems e.g. in a relatively low priority or delay tolerant manner . In an example scenario the Mobile AP may communicate such sensor information e.g. unrelated to shipping in a manner that is different from sensor information that is directly related to shipping. In such a manner a Mobile AP of a vehicle that is unrelated to shipping may utilize leftover processing and or communication capability to collect communicate and or analyze sensor data related to shipping and a Mobile AP of a vehicle that is related to shipping may utilize leftover processing and or communication capability to collect communicate and or analyze sensor data that is unrelated to shipping.

In an example scenario in which the Mobile AP has been downloaded with or is operating in accordance with a shipping container movement plan for example a plan that the vehicle carrying the Mobile AP is to follow for a work shift the Mobile AP may receive an initial shipping container movement plan from a Central Shipping Controller or other node. The Mobile AP or vehicle carrying the Mobile AP or person s operating the vehicle may then operate in accordance with the plan. The Mobile AP may for example receive such a shipping container movement plan at the beginning of a shift during a shift etc. The shipping container movement plan may be static but may also be dynamically adaptable for example based at least in part on sensor data collected by the Mobile AP based on an updated plan received from a Central Shipping Controller or another Mobile AP etc. For example in an example scenario in which the Mobile AP collects sensor data from a shipping container that was identified as lost the Mobile AP may adjust its shipping container movement plan to include moving the found shipping container to an appropriate destination. As another example the Mobile AP may collect temperature data from a shipping container that indicates a failure in a cooling system for perishable items. The Mobile AP may adjust its shipping container movement plan to include moving the failing shipping container to a maintenance location. The Mobile AP may for example modify the shipping container movement plan autonomously or in conjunction with a shipping controller. Note that a shipping container movement plan may for example be based on previously collected shipping container sensor information e.g. from a previous shift from a previous day from an immediately prior Mobile AP etc. .

In an example scenario in which the Mobile AP has been downloaded with or is operating in accordance with a data collection plan for example a sensor data collection plan that the vehicle carrying the Mobile AP is to follow for a work shift the Mobile AP may receive an initial data collection plan from a Central Shipping Controller or other node. The Mobile AP or vehicle carrying the Mobile AP or person s operating the vehicle may then operate in accordance with the plan. The Mobile AP may for example receive such a data collection plan at the beginning of a shift during a shift etc. The shipping container movement plan may be static but may also be dynamically adaptable for example based at least in part on sensor data collected by the Mobile AP based on an updated plan received from a Central Shipping Controller e.g. a port controller a distribution center controller etc. or another Mobile AP etc. For example in an example scenario in which the Mobile AP collects sensor data from a shipping container and where the collected sensor data indicates that the shipping container may be having internal environmental issues e.g. temperature control issues etc. the Mobile AP may determine to collect additionally but previously unplanned information from the shipping container e.g. power supply information HVAC system diagnostic information etc. . As another example the Mobile AP may collect identity and location information from a shipping container that indicates the shipping container is not where the system believed it to be. In response the Mobile AP may e.g. autonomously under the direction of a Central Shipping Controller etc. determine to collect additional information from the shipping container e.g. travel history information security information etc. and or collect information from adjacent shipping containers. Note that a shipping container sensor data collection plan may for example be based on previously collected shipping container sensor information e.g. from a previous shift from a previous day from an immediately prior Mobile AP etc. .

In another example scenario a smart shipping container may be capable of receiving control information from the Mobile AP or other nodes . For example the Mobile AP may analyze temperature information received from a smart shipping container and direct the shipping container to adjust its temperature. Also for example the Mobile AP may analyze power supply information from a smart shipping container and direct the shipping container to enter a low power or sleep mode to conserve energy e.g. based on comparison between the collected power supply information and a threshold value etc. . The Mobile AP may then for example report the low power or sleep mode status of the shipping container to a Central Shipping Controller other nodes other Mobile APs other containers etc.

The example Mobile AP may for example comprise a Communication Interface Module that operates to perform any or all of the wireless and or wired communication functionality for the Mobile AP many examples of which are provided herein e.g. communication with Central Shipping Controllers or NOCs communication with Cloud databases communication with smart shipping containers and or sensors communication with local shipping control systems of vehicles or Mobile APs communication with NCs communication with Fixed AP nodes communication with Mobile AP nodes communication directly with client devices backhaul or cellular communication etc. . The Communication I F Module may for example operate in accordance with any of a variety of cellular communication protocols e.g. 3G 4G LTE etc. wireless LAN communication protocols e.g. Wi Fi etc. wireless PAN communication protocols e.g. Bluetooth etc. 802.11p or DSRC satellite communication protocols fiber or cable communication protocols LAN protocols e.g. Ethernet etc. etc. For example any of the example communication discussed herein between a Mobile AP and a shipping container between a Mobile AP and an NC between a Mobile AP and a Fixed or Mobile AP between a Mobile AP and a local shipping control system or module between a Mobile AP and a Cloud database between a Mobile AP and a Central Shipping Controller etc. may be performed utilizing the Communication Interface Module .

The example Mobile AP also comprises a Shipping Control Module that for example operates to perform any or all of the shipping control functionality e.g. including sensor data collection analysis communication etc. the communication of control information etc. discussed herein e.g. with regard to the example method of with regard to the shipping control functionality discussed herein with regard to and etc. . The Shipping Control Module may for example utilize communication services provided by the Communication Interface Module to perform various aspects of communication.

The example Mobile AP may for example comprise a Master Control Module that generally manages operation of the Mobile AP at a high level. Such Master Control Module may for example comprise various aspects of an operating system for the Mobile AP .

The example Mobile AP may further for example comprise one or more Applications executing on the Mobile AP e.g. shipping control applications sensor interface applications client management applications security applications power management applications vehicle monitoring applications location services applications user interface applications etc. .

The example Mobile AP may also comprise one or more Processors and Memory Devices . The Processor s may for example comprise any of a variety of processor characteristics. For example the Processor s may comprise one or more of a general purpose processor RIS processor microcontroller ASIC DSP video processor co processor etc. The Memory Device s may for example comprise any of a variety of memory characteristics. For example the Memory Device s may comprise a volatile memory non volatile memory etc. The Memory Device s may for example comprise a non transitory computer readable medium that comprises software instructions that when executed by the Processor s cause the Mobile AP to perform any or all of the functionality discussed herein e.g. shipping control functionality sensor interface functionality mobility management functionality communication functionality etc. .

Note that the example Mobile AP may also be a Fixed AP or base station in which case the modules operate to perform any or all of the functionality discussed herein with regard to Fixed APs and or base stations. Also note that the example Mobile AP may be implemented in any of the communication network nodes discussed herein e.g. Cloud nodes backbone network nodes vehicle network nodes client or user devices etc. .

Various aspects of the present disclosure generally concern operation of one or more nodes of a communication network e.g. a Central Shipping Controller a Cloud server a Cloud database a Network Operations Center etc. . Various examples of such operation will now be presented in the context of an example method that may be implemented in a Central Shipping Controller e.g. a port controller a distribution center controller a train controller a trucking controller etc. for example implemented in a Cloud based server or computing system but the scope of this disclosure is not limited thereto. For example any or all of the aspects may be performed in any of the communication network nodes discussed herein autonomously or in a distributed manner among a plurality of such nodes e.g. in one or more Network Controller nodes in one or more Fixed APs in one or more Mobile APs in one or more client or user devices any combination of such nodes etc. .

The example method begins executing at block . The example method may begin executing in response to any of a variety of causes or conditions non limiting examples of which are provided herein. For example the example method may begin executing in response to a user command to begin in response to a signal received from a network node e.g. from a networked database from a local shipping controller of a vehicle or MAP thereof from a client dashboard or control panel etc. in response to a detected environmental or shipping condition e.g. a shipping container condition a road service condition a weather condition etc. in response to a detected emergency condition in response to a timer in response to a power up or turn on or reset event at a system implementing any or all aspects of the example method etc.

At block the example method comprises communicating with one or more communication network nodes e.g. root nodes leaf nodes intermediate nodes vehicle network nodes Mobile APs Fixed APs Network Controllers backbone communication network nodes Cloud based databases sensors etc. regarding shipping control. As discussed herein e.g. with regard to etc. such communication may comprise communicating information regarding shipping and or shipping containers e.g. receiving and or transmitting information directing the collection of sensor data directing shipping directing shipping container movement etc. . Many non limiting examples of such information have been provided herein.

Such communication may comprise any of a variety of characteristics. For example block may comprise a Central Shipping Controller or other node communicating information to a Mobile AP concerning how the Mobile AP is to conduct data collection activities e.g. data collection control information . For example such information may comprise information concerning sensors with which the Mobile AP is to communicate to obtain sensor information e.g. sensor geographical location sensor network address or other identification sensor type shipping container identity etc. . Also for example such information may comprise information identifying when the Mobile AP is to collect or gather data from various sensors. Additionally for example such information may comprise information regarding the manner in which the Mobile AP is to communicate collected data to the Central Shipping Controller or database s accessed thereby . For example such information may indicate whether data collected from a sensor is to be communicated immediately e.g. via a cellular network via the vehicle network etc. whether the data is to be communicated within a particular amount of time e.g. within a number of seconds within a number of minutes etc. whether the data has a higher priority than other data etc.

The information communicated by the Central Shipping Controller or other node may also for example comprise shipping command information. A Central Shipping Controller may for example communicate control commands to local shipping vehicles or Mobile APs thereof for example to a vehicle that loads unloads shipping containers a vehicle that transports shipping containers etc. Such commands may for example be originated by the Central Shipping Controller and communicated through one or more Mobile APs and or Fixed APs. In an example scenario a Central Shipping Controller may communicate a container load or pick up command through a Mobile AP that is within communication range of a vehicle or Mobile AP thereof capable of implementing the container load or pick up command. In another example scenario the Central Shipping Controller may communicate a no collect or no pick up command for a particular vehicle to the vehicle communication network which then has the responsibility to propagate the command to the particular vehicle through one or access points e.g. FAPs MAPs etc. that are geographically close to the particular vehicle.

In general block may comprise communicating with one or more communication network nodes regarding shipping or related services. Accordingly the scope of this disclosure should not be limited by characteristics of any particular shipping service being provided and or related conditions any particular type of shipping related information or any particular manner of performing such communicating.

The example method may at block comprise receiving e.g. at a Central Shipping Controller or other node sensor information related to shipping services e.g. container movement etc. being performed. For example block may comprise receiving such sensor information from a Mobile AP or other node collecting sensor data as the Mobile AP or vehicle carrying the Mobile AP travels along a route. Note that the route may be predefined e.g. a container pick up and or delivery plan a bus route mail collection route etc. partially defined e.g. a security service patrol beat etc. generally random etc. In an example scenario the Central Shipping Controller or other node may have provided information regarding the route e.g. a container movement plan a container inventory route a bus route a road maintenance plan etc. and or sensors along the route to the Mobile AP or vehicle or operator thereof at block .

For example as a Mobile AP or other node travels along a route the Mobile AP may operate to collect sensor data from sensors e.g. shipping container sensors or sensor systems along the route. Some or all of the sensors may for example have been identified by the Central Shipping Controller at block . In an example scenario at block the Central Shipping Controller may have communicated to the Mobile AP a list of secure sensors from which the Mobile AP is to collect data where the list includes geographical locations of the sensors security codes for the sensors operation characteristics e.g. sleep mode characteristics communication protocol characteristics etc. for the sensors instructions for how to handle data gathered from the sensors etc. As a Mobile AP gathers data from one or more sensors the Central Shipping Controller or other node may receive the sensor data or information related to the sensor data for example raw sensor data summarized sensor data calculated metrics etc. at block . Note that as discussed herein the communication of information may be performed immediately in real time in a delay tolerant manner via one or more databases etc.

At block the example method may comprise analyzing the received sensor information for example to determine whether to perform one or more actions related to the received information. Such actions may comprise any of a variety of characteristics.

For example block may comprise analyzing the received information to determine whether a shipping service plan e.g. a shipping container movement plan a shipping container inventory plan a shipping container sensor data collection plan etc. of a vehicle carrying the Mobile AP or other vehicle should be immediately modified. In an example scenario the Mobile AP may be carried by a vehicle that is providing a shipping related service. For example the Mobile AP may be carried by a vehicle engaged in shipping container movement loading unloading transportation inventory security etc. and the collected sensor data may be from shipping container sensors and or other sensors related to shipping. The Central Shipping Controller having received the sensor data or information related to the sensor data from the Mobile AP may analyze such data or information to determine whether the present shipping service plan guiding operation of the vehicle and crew thereof should be modified. For example as discussed herein an unexpected situation e.g. a located lost container a container with a failing environmental control system a chemical spill etc. may arise while the vehicle is performing its shipping related duty according to a predefined shipping service plan e.g. which may have communicated at block . In response to information related to sensor data indicating that a shipping container is urgently in need of servicing the Central Shipping Controller may determine that the shipping service providing plan should immediately be altered. Such a decision may for example be based at least in part on the sensor data level e.g. relative to one or more thresholds analyzed in light of statistical expectations e.g. averages standard deviations or variances etc. time of day day of week geographical location the location of the shipping container relative to the vehicle and or the vehicle s planned route etc. . Similarly the Central Shipping Controller may determine that a shipping service providing plan of a vehicle different from the vehicle carrying the Mobile AP should be modified. For example as explained herein a vehicle independent of e.g. entirely unrelated to etc. the shipping service being provided may provide the sensor information being analyzed by the Central Shipping Controller to control the providing of the service.

Block may also for example comprise analyzing the received sensor information and determining that the received sensor information will be considered when the next shipping service providing plan is developed e.g. for a next day next shift next route etc. for example rather than immediately modifying a shipping service providing plan for a vehicle that is currently in the field.

Block may additionally for example comprise analyzing the received sensor information and determining that the sensor originating the received sensor information or related sensor data should be monitored more frequently. In such an example scenario block may comprise communicating a command to one or more other nodes e.g. Mobile APs etc. to communicate with the sensor whenever the opportunity arises e.g. when Mobile APs are passing by and within range of the sensor etc. .

Other example actions that may be taken by the Central Shipping Controller or other node may for example comprise alerting a client system associated with the particular shipping service of a detected condition and or of a modification to a shipping service plan alerting a user e.g. a driver or controller of a vehicle a dispatcher etc. of a detected shipping container condition communicating to the sensor and or a customer associated with the sensor that the sensor data has been received and or successfully reported communicating to a customer associated with the sensor an estimate of when a service call related to the sensor may be performed e.g. a scheduled time of shipping container pick up etc. etc.

In general block may comprise analyzing the received sensor information for example to determine whether to perform one or more actions related to the received information. Accordingly the scope of the present disclosure should not be limited by characteristics of any particular action manner of determining whether to perform an action etc.

The example method may at block comprise directing execution flow of the example method . If it is determined at block that no action is to be taken based on the analysis formed at block then block directs execution flow of the example method back up to block or any block of the example method or any step of any method discussed herein . If it is determined at block that one or more actions are to be taken based on the analysis formed at block then block directs execution flow of the example method to block for performance of the action s . After block execution of the example method flows back up to block or any block of the example method or any step of any method discussed herein .

The example CSC may for example comprise a Communication Interface Module that operates to perform any or all of the wireless and or wired communication functionality for the CSC many examples of which are provided herein e.g. communication with databases communication with shipping control systems communication with fleet controllers communication with Fixed AP nodes communication with Mobile AP nodes communication with cellular or other base stations landline communication communication with the Cloud APIs or other entities backhaul communication communication with client dashboards or controllers communication with shipping container sensors communication with sensors in general etc. . The Communication I F Module may for example operate in accordance with any of a variety of cellular communication protocols e.g. 3G 4G LTE etc. wireless LAN communication protocols e.g. Wi Fi etc. wireless PAN communication protocols e.g. Bluetooth etc. 802.11p or DSRC satellite communication protocols fiber or cable communication protocols LAN protocols e.g. Ethernet etc. POTS communication etc. For example any of the example communication discussed herein between a CSC and a Mobile AP between a CSC and a Fixed AP between a CSC and a backhaul network between a CSC and a local service controller etc. may be performed utilizing the Communication I F Module .

The example CSC also comprises a Shipping Control Module that for example performs any or all of the shipping control functionality discussed herein e.g. with regard to the example method of with regard to the shipping control functionality discussed with regard to etc. . The Shipping Control Module may for example utilize communication services provided by the Communication Interface Module to perform various aspects of communication.

The example CSC may for example comprise a Master Control Module that generally manages operation of the CSC at a high level. Such Master Control Module may for example comprise various aspects of an operating system for the CSC .

The example CSC may further for example comprise one or more Applications executing on the CSC e.g. shipping control applications shipping container interface applications sensor interface applications road maintenance control applications mass transit control applications traffic control applications client management applications security applications power management applications vehicle monitoring applications location services applications user interface applications etc. .

The example CSC may also comprise one or more Processors and Memory Devices . The Processor s may for example comprise any of a variety of processor characteristics. For example the Processor s may comprise one or more of a general purposes processor RIS processor microcontroller ASIC DSP video processor co processor etc. . The Memory Device s may for example comprise any of a variety of memory characteristics. For example the Memory Device s may comprise a volatile memory non volatile memory etc. The Memory Device s may for example comprise a non transitory computer readable medium that comprises software instructions that when executed by the Processor s cause the CSC to perform any or all of the functionality discussed herein e.g. shipping control functionality shipping container interface functionality shipping container sensor interface functionality mobility management functionality communication functionality etc. .

In accordance with various aspects of this disclosure examples of the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 192 titled Communication Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for integrating such networks and or components with other networks and systems non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 221 997 titled Integrated Communication Network for A Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Also in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for synchronizing such networks and or components non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 016 titled Systems and Methods for Synchronizing a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Additionally in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for managing such networks and or components non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 042 titled Systems and Methods for Managing a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for monitoring such networks and or components non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 066 titled Systems and Methods for Monitoring a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Still further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for detecting and or classifying anomalies in such networks and or components non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 077 titled Systems and Methods for Detecting and Classifying Anomalies in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Yet further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for managing mobility in such networks and or components non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 098 titled Systems and Methods for Managing Mobility in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Also in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for managing connectivity in such networks and or components non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 121 titled Systems and Methods for Managing Connectivity a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Additionally in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for collecting sensor data in such networks and or components non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 135 titled Systems and Methods for Collecting Sensor Data in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for interfacing with such networks and or components non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 145 titled Systems and Methods for Interfacing with a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Still further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for interfacing with a user of such networks and or components non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 150 titled Systems and Methods for Interfacing with a User of a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Yet further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for data storage and processing in such networks and or components non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 168 titled Systems and Methods for Data Storage and Processing for a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Also in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for vehicle traffic management in such networks and or components non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 183 titled Systems and Methods for Vehicle Traffic Management in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Additionally in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for environmental management in such networks and or components non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 186 titled Systems and Methods for Environmental Management in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for managing port or shipping operation in such networks and or components non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 222 190 titled Systems and Methods for Port Management in a Network of Moving Things filed on Sep. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Also in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for enhancing the accuracy of positioning or location information based at least in part on historical data non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 244 828 titled Utilizing Historical Data to Correct GPS Data in a Network of Moving Things filed on Oct. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Additionally in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for enhancing the accuracy of position or location of positioning or location information based at least in part on the utilization of anchors non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 244 930 titled Using Anchors to Correct GPS Data in a Network of Moving Things filed on Oct. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for providing communication between applications non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 246 368 titled Systems and Methods for Inter Application Communication in a Network of Moving Things filed on Oct. 26 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Still further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for probing analyzing and or validating communication non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 246 372 titled Systems and Methods for Probing and Validating Communication in a Network of Moving Things filed on Oct. 26 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Yet further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for adapting communication rate non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 250 544 titled Adaptive Rate Control for Vehicular Networks filed on Nov. 4 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Also in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for reconfiguring and adapting hardware non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 273 878 titled Systems and Methods for Reconfiguring and Adapting Hardware in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 31 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Additionally in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for optimizing the gathering of data non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 253 249 titled Systems and Methods for Optimizing Data Gathering in a Network of Moving Things filed on Nov. 10 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for performing delay tolerant networking non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 257 421 titled Systems and Methods for Delay Tolerant Networking in a Network of Moving Things filed on Nov. 19 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Still further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for improving the coverage and throughput of mobile access points non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 265 267 titled Systems and Methods for Improving Coverage and Throughput of Mobile Access Points in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 9 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Yet further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for coordinating channel utilization non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 270 858 titled Channel Coordination in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Also in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for implementing a network coded mesh network in the network of moving things non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 257 854 titled Systems and Methods for Network Coded Mesh Networking in a Network of Moving Things filed on Nov. 20 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Additionally in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for improving the coverage of fixed access points non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 260 749 titled Systems and Methods for Improving Fixed Access Point Coverage in a Network of Moving Things filed on Nov. 30 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for managing mobility controllers and their network interactions non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 273 715 titled Systems and Methods for Managing Mobility Controllers and Their Network Interactions in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 31 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Still further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for managing and or triggering handovers of mobile access points non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 281 432 titled Systems and Methods for Managing and Triggering Handovers of Mobile Access Points in a Network of Moving Things filed on Jan. 21 2016 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Yet further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for performing captive portal related control and management non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 268 188 titled Captive Portal related Control and Management in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 16 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Also in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for extrapolating high value data non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 270 678 titled Systems and Methods to Extrapolate High Value Data from a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 22 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Additionally in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for providing remote software updating and distribution non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 272 750 titled Systems and Methods for Remote Software Update and Distribution in a Network of Moving Things filed on Dec. 30 2015 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for providing remote configuration updating and distribution non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 278 662 titled Systems and Methods for Remote Configuration Update and Distribution in a Network of Moving Things filed on Jan. 14 2016 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Still further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for adapting the network for example automatically based on user feedback non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 286 243 titled Systems and Methods for Adapting a Network of Moving Things Based on User Feedback filed on Jan. 22 2016 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Yet further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for enhancing and or guaranteeing data integrity when building or performing data analytics non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 278 764 titled Systems and Methods to Guarantee Data Integrity When Building Data Analytics in a Network of Moving Things Jan. 14 2016 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Also in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for performing self initialization and or automated bootstrapping of mobile access points non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 286 515 titled Systems and Methods for Self Initialization and Automated Bootstrapping of Mobile Access Points in a Network of Moving Things filed on Jan. 25 2016 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Additionally in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for managing power supply and or utilization non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 295 602 titled Systems and Methods for Power Management in a Network of Moving Things filed on Feb. 16 2016 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Further in accordance with various aspects of this disclosure the networks and or components thereof presented herein are provided with systems and methods for automating and easing the installation and setup of the infrastructure non limiting examples of which are provided in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 299 269 titled Systems and Methods for Automating and Easing the Installation and Setup of the Infrastructure Supporting a Network of Moving Things filed on Feb. 24 2016 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In summary various aspects of this disclosure provide systems and methods for shipping management in a network of moving things. As non limiting examples various aspects of this disclosure provide systems and methods for integrating sensors mobile access points and or the network of moving things with shipping container management systems e.g. port management systems train management systems trucking management systems etc. . While the foregoing has been described with reference to certain aspects and examples it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the disclosure. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the disclosure without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the disclosure not be limited to the particular example s disclosed but that the disclosure will include all examples falling within the scope of the appended claims.

