---

title: Side rail of a flatbed trailer for use with cargo restraint devices
abstract: A side rail of a floor assembly of a trailer, such as a flatbed trailer, including a channel formed in a top wall of the side rail and an aperture formed in the top wall of the side rail at a location spaced-apart from the channel. The channel extends along a length of the side rail and is configured to receive a first cargo restraint device therein. The aperture is configured to receive a second cargo restraint device therein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09637042&OS=09637042&RS=09637042
owner: Wabash National, L.P.
number: 09637042
owner_city: Lafayette
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160805
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. Pat. No. 9 434 293 issued Sep. 6 2016 entitled SIDE RAIL OF A FLATBED TRIALER FO RUSE WITH CARGO RESTRAINT DEVICES which is a divisional of U.S. Pat. No. 8 985 921 issued Mar. 24 2015 entitled SIDE RAIL OF A FLATBED TRAILER FOR USE WITH CARGO RESTRAINT DEVICES which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 611 325 entitled SIDE RAIL OF A FLATBED TRAILER FOR USE WITH CARGO RESTRAINT DEVICES and filed Mar. 15 2012 the entirety of each of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates generally to a side rail of a floor assembly for a transportation vehicle such as a flatbed trailer for example. In particular the present invention relates to a side rail of a flatbed trailer configured to accommodate two different cargo restraint cargo restraint devices to allow a user to use one or both devices to restrain or position cargo on the floor assembly.

When transporting bulky loads such as cargo from place to place on a trailer such as a flatbed trailer for example the load is typically secured to the trailer in order to prevent the load from moving relative thereto. Various cargo restraint devices are provided for securing the cargo to the trailer and the trailer may be configured in one or more ways to allow a particular type of cargo restraint device to be coupled thereto. An example of one such device is a chain tie down device such as that described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 537 423. A flatbed trailer may be configured such that a chain tie down device is able to be provided in a side rail of the floor assembly of a flatbed trailer for example. Another cargo restraint device includes a multi position sliding bracket configured to slide along a channel typically located in the side rail of the floor assembly of the trailer. The sliding bracket is able to be positioned at any location within the channel and along the length of the trailer side rail in order to provide an optimal location for securing cargo on the trailer. Typically the side rail of the trailer may be configured to accept either the chain tie down restraint device or the sliding bracket i.e. multi position restraint device but not both thus limiting the means available to the user to tie down or restrain various cargo loads on the trailer.

The present invention may comprise one or more of the features recited in the attached claims and or one or more of the following features and combinations thereof.

According to one aspect of the present disclosure a side rail configured to be coupled to a cross member of a floor assembly of a trailer such as a flatbed trailer includes a channel formed in a top wall of the side rail. The channel extends along a length of the side rail and is configured to receive a first cargo restraint device therein. The side rail further includes an aperture formed in the top wall at a location spaced apart from the channel. The aperture is configured to receive a second cargo restraint device therein.

In one illustrative embodiment the first cargo restraint device may be different from the second cargo restraint device.

In still another illustrative embodiment the channel may be generally J shaped when viewed in cross section.

In yet another illustrative embodiment the side rail may also include i an outer vertical wall coupled to the top wall and ii a bottom wall coupled to the outer vertical wall. Illustratively the side rail may be devoid of any angled cross brace extending from the top wall to either the outer vertical wall or the bottom wall. Further illustratively the outer vertical wall may be a first outer vertical wall and the side rail may also include a second outer vertical wall parallel to the first outer vertical wall. Illustratively the channel may be positioned generally directly above the first and second outer vertical walls.

In still another illustrative embodiment the channel formed in the top wall may be defined by spaced apart vertical members and a base member coupled to the bottom of the vertical members. Illustratively a portion of the base member may be configured to be welded to a cross member of the floor assembly.

In yet another illustrative embodiment the channel may be configured to be positioned outside a lateral end of a cross member of the floor assembly when the side rail is coupled to the cross member.

In still another illustrative embodiment the channel may be positioned outwardly from a center of the top wall when viewed in cross section.

In another illustrative embodiment the top wall may include a channel mount configured to define the channel therein. The top wall may also include a horizontal member and first and second vertical members extending downwardly from the horizontal member. Illustratively the first and second vertical members may be configured to be welded to the cross member of the floor assembly. Further illustratively the aperture may be positioned between the channel mount and the second vertical member.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure a side rail configured to be coupled to a cross member of a floor assembly of a trailer such as a flatbed trailer includes a top wall having a channel mount defining a channel extending along a length of the side rail. The channel is configured to receive a first cargo restraint device therein. The top wall also includes a horizontal member configured to be spaced apart from a top surface of the cross member. The top wall further includes a vertical member extending downwardly from the horizontal member. The vertical member is configured to be coupled to the top surface of the cross member. Illustratively an aperture of the side rail is formed in the horizontal member and is positioned between the channel mount and the vertical member. The aperture is configured to receive a second cargo restraint device therein that is different from the first cargo restraint device. The side rail further includes an outer vertical wall coupled to and extending downwardly from the channel mount. The outer vertical wall is configured to engage an outer end of the cross member.

In another illustrative embodiment the side rail also includes another outer vertical wall member coupled to and extending downwardly from the channel mount. Illustratively the outer vertical wall members are spaced apart from each other.

According to yet another aspect of the present disclosure a floor assembly of a vehicle such as a flatbed trailer for example includes a plurality of transversely extending cross members a plurality of longitudinally extending floor planks positioned above and coupled to a top surface of the plurality of cross members and a support member configured to extend generally along a length of the floor assembly. Illustratively the support member includes a top wall generally flush with the plurality of longitudinally extending floor planks and a vertical wall coupled to the top wall and extending downwardly therefrom such that a bottom end of the vertical wall is positioned generally below the cross members. Further illustratively the support member is positioned between two of the longitudinally extending floor planks. The top wall of the support member includes a channel formed therein which extends along a length of the support member. The channel is configured to receive a cargo restraint device therein.

In another illustrative embodiment the channel formed in the top wall may be defined by spaced apart vertical members and a base member coupled to the bottom of the vertical members. Illustratively the base member may be wider than a widest portion of the channel. Further illustratively the base member may be welded to a cross member of the floor assembly.

In yet another illustrative embodiment the floor assembly may also include a side rail spaced apart from the support member. The side rail may include a top wall defining a channel and an aperture spaced apart from the channel. Illustratively the channel of the side rail may be configured to receive the cargo restraint device therein. Further illustratively the aperture may be configured to receive a different cargo restraint device therein.

For the purposes of promoting an understanding of the principles of the invention reference will now be made to illustrative embodiments shown in the attached drawings and specific language will be used to describe the same. While the concepts of this disclosure are described in relation to a flatbed trailer it will be understood that they are equally applicable to other vehicles generally and more specifically to conventional truck and or box or van type trailers dry van and refrigerated examples of which include but should not be limited to straight truck bodies small personal and or commercial trailers and the like. Accordingly those skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention may be implemented in a number of different applications and embodiments and is not specifically limited in its application to the particular embodiments depicted herein.

Looking first to a flatbed trailer includes a floor assembly a rear wheel assembly not shown and a kingpin not shown configured to be coupled to a tractor not shown for towing the flatbed trailer . The floor assembly of the flatbed trailer includes first and second side rails each configured to extend along a length of the trailer along the right and left sides of the trailer as shown in for example. The floor assembly further includes longitudinally extending support beams such as the I beams shown in for example as well as transversely extending cross beams also shown in . A cross brace is coupled to and extends between the I beams . Floor planks of the floor assembly extend longitudinally along the trailer and rest on the cross beams as shown best in .

As noted above the floor assembly includes first and second side rails such that each side rail extends along a length of the right and left sides of the trailer . In particular one side rail extends along one side of the floor assembly while the other side rail extends along the other side of the floor assembly . For purposes of the description herein however only one side rail will be described herein. However it should be understood that the two side rails of the trailer are identical in configuration and function.

Illustratively as shown in the side rail includes an outer vertical wall a bottom inwardly extending wall coupled to a bottom end of the vertical wall and a top inwardly extending wall coupled to a top end of the vertical wall . The top wall includes an outer top wall member and an inner top wall member spaced apart from the outer top wall member by a longitudinally extending groove or channel formed in the top wall of the side rail . Illustratively the channel is defined by a channel mount of the top wall . In particular the channel mount includes a first vertical member coupled to the outer top wall member a second vertical member coupled to the inner top wall member and spaced apart from the first vertical member and a base wall member coupled to a bottom end of each of the first and second vertical members to define the channel therebetween. As shown in the base wall member includes a horizontal member and an upwardly extending lip coupled to an inward end of the horizontal member . Illustratively as viewed from an end view of the trailer the horizontal member of the base wall extends transversely to the right and left beyond the first and second vertical members such that a width of the base wall member is greater than a width of a widest portion of the channel and is also greater than a distance between the outer surfaces of the vertical walls which define the channel . Illustratively the width is approximately 2.5 inches and the width is approximately 1.0 inches while the distance between the outer surfaces of the vertical walls is approximately 1.6 inches. However it should be understood that it is within the scope of the disclosure for the base wall member to include any suitable dimensions as well.

Illustratively the top wall further includes a third vertical member spaced inwardly from the second vertical member and extending downwardly from an innermost end of the top wall member . A transversely extending flange of the top wall is coupled to the bottom end of the inner vertical member as shown in . Further illustratively the side rail specifically does not include a generally diagonally extending cross member extending between the top wall and either the vertical outer wall or the bottom wall . As is discussed in greater detail below the horizontal wall member of the base wall is configured to be welded to the cross members of the floor assembly in order to provide additional strength to the side rail while the lack of any cross member of the side rail aides in providing sufficient room for the use of first and second cargo restraint devices with the side rail .

Illustratively the channel defined in the top wall of the side rail is generally J shaped in cross section such that a top opening of the channel defines a width that is smaller than the width of the bottom most portion of the channel . The top opening is thus defined by a lip of the top wall member which extends outwardly from the second vertical wall member as shown in .

As shown in the side rail is configured to be coupled to the cross beams of the floor assembly such that the bottom wall is positioned below the cross beams and the top wall is positioned above and in engagement with a top surface of the cross beams . As shown in the top wall members of the top wall are spaced apart from the top surface of the cross members . Illustratively the side rail is located at the outermost sides of the floor assembly of the trailer and is coupled to the outer ends of the cross members of the floor assembly . In particular a bottom surface of the horizontal member of the base wall and a bottom surface of the flange are engaged with the top surface of the cross beams . Illustratively therefore the flange and the horizontal member of the base wall are welded to the top surface of the cross members in order to secure the side rail thereto. It should be understood that while the side rail is welded to the cross members it is also within the scope of this disclosure for the side rail to be coupled to the cross members using any suitable mechanical fastener and or adhesive including but not limited to rivets nails screws nuts and bolts epoxies etc. Illustratively the side rail is made from an extruded piece of aluminum. However it should be understood that the side rail may be made from one or more any suitable materials including but not limited to metals metal alloys plastics composites and wood for example. Further it is within the scope of the disclosure to provide a side rail that is not extruded as a single component but is made of separate components coupled together.

Illustratively as shown in a width of the outer top wall member is less than a width of the inner top wall member such that the channel formed in the top wall is positioned outwardly from a vertical centerline shown in through a center of an overall width of the top wall . Specifically the width of the outer top wall member is approximately 0.88 inches while the width of the inner top wall member is approximately 4.43 inches and the overall width of the top wall is approximately 6.74 inches.

A first cargo restraint device is provided for use with the side rail of trailer . Illustratively the first cargo restraint device is a sliding load securement bracket. In particular the bracket is provided for use with the channel formed in the side rail . Illustratively the bracket is generally rectangular as shown in and defines a generally J shaped cross section as shown in . The bracket includes an aperture as shown in formed through an upper body section while a lower J section is received within the channel of the side rail . When properly coupled to the side rail a lip on the J section of the bracket engages the lip of the side rail in order to prevent the bracket from being vertically removed from the channel .

In use the bracket may be moved or slid within the channel along a longitudinal length of the side rail in order to position the bracket at any suitable location on the trailer in order to properly secure cargo to the trailer . A securing chain or strap not shown for use in either retaining or positioning cargo may be attached to the mounting bracket by a hook for example placed through the aperture in order to secure or position cargo on the trailer . When the hook is placed under tension the mounting bracket is moved upwardly to draw the lip of the J section against the lip of the top wall of the side rail . While the bracket is only shown in a generally vertical orientation on the side rail it should be understood that the bracket is also pivotable within the channel such that the main body of the bracket may be positioned at any suitable angle relative to the generally flat upper surface of the top wall of the side rail . When not in use the bracket may be removed or uncoupled from the side rail by rotating the main body in an inward direction to disengage the lip of the side rail from the corresponding lip or J section of the bracket and removing the J section of the bracket from the channel .

As shown in the side rail of the trailer is configured to accommodate a second cargo restraint device . Illustratively the side rail includes an aperture formed in the inner top wall member through which the second cargo restraint device may be located. In particular the second cargo restraint device is a chain tiedown such as that described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 537 423 for example. As shown in the illustrative restraint device generally includes an upper cap a chain extending downwardly from the cap and an end lock coupled to a bottom end of the chain . Illustratively a diameter of the cap is generally the same or similar size as a diameter of the aperture formed in the side rail such that a top surface of the cap is generally flush with a top surface of the outer wall member of the side rail when the device is installed therein. A bar is illustratively welded to an underside of the inner top wall member and an aperture formed therethrough is aligned with the aperture formed in the side rail . The aperture is smaller than the aperture and smaller than the cap of the device such that an outer rim of the cap is configured to rest on a portion of the bar around the aperture in order to support the cap thereon. In use a securing chain or strap for use in either retaining or positioning cargo may be attached to a link of the chain of the device by a hook for example in order to secure or position cargo on the trailer . When the hook is placed under tension the device is moved upwardly to draw the end lock tightly against a bottom surface of the bar .

Illustratively as shown in the aperture is positioned inwardly i.e. toward the center of the trailer and away from the outer vertical wall of the side rail of the channel formed in the top wall of the side rail in order to position the second cargo restraining device i.e. the chain tie down inwardly of the first cargo restraining device i.e. the mounting bracket . As shown in the top wall includes a number of apertures formed therein in order to accommodate a number of devices . It should be understood that the side rail may be provided with any one or more apertures formed therein in order to accommodate one or more devices.

Thus the side rail is configured to accommodate two different types of cargo restraining devices therein. In particular the channel is configured to cooperate with the mounting bracket to provide a multi position sliding cargo restraining device. Further the one or more apertures of the side rail are configured to cooperate with the second cargo restraint device to provide a chain tie down restraining device. Typically a side rail of a flatbed trailer such as the trailer is only able to accommodate one cargo restraining device such that a typical trailer may include either a channel configured to cooperate with a mounting bracket or an aperture configured to cooperate with a chain tie down device but not both. Such limited accommodations are oftentimes due to constrains in the size of the top wall of a side rail and or to placement of supporting cross braces typically found in many side rails. Oftentimes one particular cargo restraining device may be desired over the use of another cargo restraining device depending upon the size shape and or weight of the cargo to be carried on the floor assembly of the trailer . Thus providing a trailer capable of accommodating two different cargo restraining devices therein provides a use with the ability to use one or more different types of cargo restraint devices in order to better accommodate different types of cargo loads to be carried on the trailer .

Illustratively the wide width of the base member of the side rail provides additional strength to the side rail in order to help prevent the side rail from bending or otherwise deforming due to loads placed on the side rail via the mounting bracket and or the chain tie when these cargo restraining devices and the corresponding restraining straps are used to restrain cargo on the floor assembly of the trailer . As noted above the entire width of the horizontal member of the base wall is welded to the cross members of the floor assembly in order to secure the side rail to the cross members . Welding along the widened width of the base wall provides additional strength to the side rail in order to further help prevent the side rail from deforming due to loads placed thereon.

Looking now to the trailer further includes two longitudinally extending I beams of the floor assembly . Such I beams are oftentimes constructed of two generally T shaped members i.e. an upper T member and a lower T member welded together . However it should be understood that the I beams may comprise a single component rather than the upper and lower T members coupled together. Illustratively the I beams are located inwardly and are spaced apart from each of the first and second side rails of the trailer . As shown in each of the I beams includes a channel formed therein. The channel is configured to accommodate one or more mounting brackets in order to provide an inwardly positioned cargo restraint device. While the floor assembly includes two longitudinally extending I beams only one I beam will be described herein. However it should be understood that the two I beams of the trailer are identical in configuration and function.

Illustratively as shown in the upper T member of the I beam includes a top wall and a vertical wall coupled to the top wall and extending downwardly therefrom. Illustratively a top surface of the top wall is generally flush with a top surface of the floor planks while a bottom end of the vertical wall is positioned generally below the cross members of the floor assembly . The top wall includes spaced apart top wall members first and second generally vertical wall members coupled to the outside end of each of the top wall members and a flange member coupled to the bottom end of each of the vertical wall members . The flange members are coupled to the top surface of the cross members via welding. However it should be understood that the flange members of the I beam may be coupled to the cross members via other suitable fasteners including but not limited to rivets nails screws nuts bolts and adhesives for example. The I beam further includes a channel mount defining the channel therein. The channel mount of the I beam is similar to the channel mount of the side rail . Illustratively the channel mount includes a first vertical wall and a second vertical wall spaced apart from the first vertical wall . Illustratively the second vertical wall is thicker than the first vertical wall . However it should be understood that the first and second vertical walls may include any suitable thickness such that the first vertical wall may be as thick as or thicker than the second vertical wall for example. As shown in the second vertical wall is positioned inwardly i.e. toward a longitudinal center of the floor assembly from the first vertical wall and is coupled to a lip of the top wall member which extends outwardly i.e. away from a longitudinal center of the floor assembly to define the J shape of the channel .

The first and second vertical walls are coupled to each other by a horizontal base wall which cooperates with the first and second vertical walls to define the channel . The channel mount defines a lower or base surface which is configured to engage and be coupled to the upper surface of the cross members of the floor assembly . Illustratively the base surface defines a width that is greater than a width of the widest portion of the channel . As shown in a portion of the base surface is positioned to the right i.e. inward of the vertical wall of the I beam while another portion of the base surface is positioned to the left i.e. outward of the vertical wall . Illustratively the channel formed within the channel mount is positioned to the left of the vertical wall .

The channel of the I beams provides the same function as the channel formed in the side rails . That is the channel of each I beam is configured to receive the mounting bracket therein in order to secure cargo on the floor assembly of the trailer . The mounting bracket may be slid along within the channel along the length of the top wall of the I beam to be positioned at any suitable location. When properly coupled to the I beam a lip on the J section of the bracket engages the lip of the top wall of the I beam in order to prevent the bracket from being vertically removed from the channel .

Looking now to an alternative side rail is provided. The side rail is similar to the side rail and as such common reference numbers are provided to refer to the same or similar components. Illustratively the side rail includes an outer vertical wall a bottom inwardly extending wall coupled to a bottom end of the vertical wall and a top inwardly extending wall coupled to a top end portion of the vertical wall . The top wall includes a channel mount which defines the longitudinally extending channel configured to receive the first cargo restraint device therein. The cargo restraint device is movable within the channel in the same manner as that described above in regard to the side rail .

The channel mount includes an upper portion of the vertical wall a vertical member coupled to the top wall and spaced apart from the upper portion of the outer vertical wall and a base wall member coupled to a bottom end of the vertical member and coupled to the outer vertical wall to define the channel therebetween. As shown in a second outer vertical wall is coupled to the base wall member of the channel mount and extends downwardly therefrom to the bottom wall . Illustratively the vertical wall is parallel to the vertical wall and is spaced inwardly therefrom. As shown in the second outer vertical wall is configured to engage an outer end of the cross member . Further illustratively a portion of the bottom wall extends inwardly beyond the second outer vertical member to be positioned below and engaged with the cross member .

Illustratively the top wall further includes a horizontal member coupled to the channel mount and an additional vertical member extending downwardly from an innermost end of the horizontal member of the top wall . A transversely extending flange of the top wall is coupled to the bottom end of the inner vertical member as shown in . The top wall further includes yet another vertical member extending downwardly from the horizontal member of the top wall at a location spaced outwardly from the vertical member . A transversely extending flange is coupled to the bottom end of the vertical member . Illustratively the vertical member and the vertical member are parallel to each other.

Similar to the side rail the side rail does not include a generally diagonally extending cross member or support member which extends between an inner portion of the top wall and the outer vertical wall . Illustratively the flanges as well as a bottom ledge of the base wall member are configured to be welded to the top surface of the cross members of the floor assembly . Further illustratively both outer vertical wall members are positioned outside the cross member such that the second outer vertical wall member is adjacent to and engaged with the cross member while the outer wall member is spaced apart from the end of the cross member . Thus the channel formed in the channel mount is generally positioned outside a vertical plane defined by the end surfaces of the cross member . Illustratively the channel mount is positioned generally directly above the first and second outer vertical members .

It should be understood that while the side rail is welded to the cross members it is also within the scope of this disclosure for the side rail to be coupled to the cross members using an suitable mechanical fastener and or adhesive including but not limited to rivets nails screws nuts and bolt epoxies etc. Similar to the side rail the side rail is made from an extruded piece of aluminum. However it should be understood that the side rail may be made from one or more suitable materials including but not limited to metals metal alloys plastics composites and wood for example. Further it is within the scope of this disclosure to provide a side rail that is not extruded as a single component but is made of separate components coupled together.

Similar to the side rail the side rail is configured to accommodate the second cargo restraint device . Illustratively the side rail includes one or more apertures formed in the top wall through which the second cargo restraint device may be located. Illustratively each aperture is positioned between the vertical member and the vertical wall of the channel mount as shown in . The device is coupled to the side rail in the same or similar manner as described above in regard to the side rail . Thus the side rail is configured to accommodate two different types of cargo restraining devices therein. In particular the channel is configured to cooperate with the mounting bracket to provide a multi position sliding cargo restraining device while the one or more apertures of the side rail are configured to cooperate with the second cargo restraint device to provide a chain tie down restraining device.

While the invention has been illustrated and described in detail in the foregoing drawings and description the same is to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive in character it being understood that only illustrative embodiments thereof have been shown and described and that all changes and modifications that come within the spirit of the invention are desired to be protected.

