---

title: System for populating budgets and/or wish lists using real-time video image analysis
abstract: System, method, and computer program product are provided for using real-time video analysis, such as augmented reality to provide the user of a mobile device with real-time budgeting and wish lists. Through the use of real-time vision object recognition objects, logos, artwork, products, locations, and other features that can be recognized in the real-time video stream can be matched to data associated with such to provide the user with real-time budget impact and wish list updates based on the products and budget data determined as being the object. In this way, the objects, which may be products and/or budget data in the real-time video stream, may be included into a user's budget and/or wish list, such that the user receives real-time budget and/or wish list updates incorporating product and/or budget data located in a real-time video stream.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09519932&OS=09519932&RS=09519932
owner: BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
number: 09519932
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160216
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 365 996 filed Feb. 3 2012 which in turn claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 450 213 filed Mar. 8 2011 entitled Real Time Video Image Analysis Applications for Commerce Activity assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Even with advances in technology budgeting finances to purchase various products is often difficult for a user. Purchasing large products such as houses or cars may affect a user s budget for many years. It is imperative that individual s budget correctly prior to a purchase in order to have adequate financial stability for the purchase and after a purchase. However budgeting can be challenging for several reasons. First it is difficult to predict some future purchases that may be made. Second budgeting takes planning time and sometime requires expert advice. Finally after the budget is complete it is easy for someone to stray from his her budget and subsequently not be able to reach purchasing goals as early as desired.

Current handheld mobile devices such as smart phones or the like have the functionality to allow there use for a myriad of day to day transactions such as paying for a cup of coffee or providing a boarding pass for a flight. These technological advances combine multiple technologies into a handheld mobile device to provide a user with a large number of capabilities. For example many smart phones are equipped with significant processing power sophisticated multi tasking operating systems and high bandwidth Internet connection capabilities. Moreover such devices often have additional features that are increasingly more common and standardized. Such features include but are not limited to location determining devices such as Global Positioning System GPS devices sensor devices such as accelerometers and high resolution video cameras.

As the hardware capabilities of such mobile devices have increased so too have the applications i.e. software that rely on the hardware advances. One such example of innovative software is a category known as augmented reality AR or more generally referred to as mediated reality. The AR technology analyzes location data compass direction data and the like in combination with information related to the objects locations or the like in the video stream to create browse able hot spots or tags that are superimposed on the mobile device display resulting in an experience described as reality browsing .

Therefore a need exists to provide individuals with access to budgeting capabilities for easy budgeting and updating of a budget to include products the individual may wish to purchase in the future.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Embodiments of the present invention address the above needs and or achieve other advantages by providing apparatuses e.g. a system computer program product and or other devices and methods for using real time video analysis such as augmented reality AR or the like to assist the user of mobile devices with populating budgets and or wish lists which allows a user to easily add products to budgets and or wish lists and be able to begin planning to purchase the products in the future.

Using real time video analysis such as AR or the like the system may provide the user of mobile device real time budget and or wish list updates incorporating product and or budget data located in a real time video stream. In some embodiments the budget may provide the user with real time indication as to how purchasing a product may affect the user s budget a future budget based on the purchasing of the product etc. In some embodiments wish list may provide the user with real time indications as to the user s current wish list current prices for products on the wish list etc. Through the use of real time vision object recognition objects logos artwork products locations and other features that can be recognized in the real time video stream can be matched to data associated with those objects logos artwork products locations or other features to determine products and or data for directories associated with budgeting and or wish lists. In some embodiments the user may not require using real time video stream but instead be able to take a still photo image of the product and or budget data. In some embodiments the data that is matched to the images is specific to financial institutions such as user financial behavior history user purchasing power transaction history and the like. In this regard many of the embodiments herein disclosed leverage financial institution data which is uniquely specific to financial institutions in providing information to mobile device users in connection with real time video stream analysis.

In some embodiments the product and or budget data is determined from the images in the real time video stream. Products may include any good service etc. that a user may wish to purchase. For example a user may provide real time video images of a television that the user wishes to purchase. Budget data may include any product document statement bill financial record etc. that the user may wish to incorporate into his her budget. In this way the user may be able to capture an image of a product and or budget data and the product and or budget data in that image may be provided to the user s wish list and or the user s budget such that the user has real time wish list and budget data available. For example if a user is wishing to purchase a vehicle the user may take an image of the vehicle the system may recognize the vehicle and provide data associated with the vehicle to the user s budged.

In this way the user may be able to select an indicator associated with his her budget and receive information about how purchasing the vehicle may effect his her budget in the future best payment mechanism to purchase the vehicle how to receive a loan to purchase the vehicle and or if purchasing the vehicle is recommended based on the user s budgeting strategy. In other embodiments the products and or budget data that have been previously determined may be recognized with when images of the product and or budget data are located within the real time video stream. For example if a user has previously put a specific television on his her wish list. The user may use his her real time video stream to scan a planogram down a street a virtual store etc. The system may then identify the television and the location within the planogram merchant location on the street and or location in the virtual store such that the user may be able to locate the products on his her wish list using the system.

In some embodiments the system may populate a budget and or budget strategies. In some embodiments the user may input via an interface or the like information to set up a budget and or budget strategy. In other embodiments the system may automatically set up a user s budget and or budget strategy. In yet other embodiments a combination of user input and automatic system input may be utilized to set up a budget and or budget strategy. A user budget provides a financial plan that forecasts revenues and expenditures such that a model of financial performance may be obtained if certain strategies evens and or plans are carried out. Budgets may include plans for saving borrowing and or spending. The user may input information such as expenses retirement goals future purchases income etc. that all may be part of the user s budget. In some embodiments the user may partially set up his her budget. In this way the user may select predetermined budgeting. For example the user may indicate to the system that he she wants to purchase a house in a year from now. The system may determine a budget for the user such that he she may be able to provide the down payment on a house. In other embodiments the budget and budget strategies may be set up automatically by the system. The budgets that may be set up via the system include but are not limited to multiple budgets such as but not limited to macro category commercial micro groups sales production cash flow marketing project expenditure businesses and or other budgets a user may desire to product.

The system may aid the user or completely set up the budget for the user utilizing several factors including but not limit to utilizing the user s financial plans the user s financial history similarly situated individuals financial history crowd sourcing data financial advisor recommendations and or the like to set up the user s budget. Financial plans of a user may include financial goals payment strategies tax strategies personal planning loan repayment e.g. student loan repayment car loan repayment etc. paying off credit card debt e.g. paying off one credit card with higher interest rates faster than other debt mortgage repayment and or the like. The financial goals of the user may include savings goals such as saving for a child s college investments saving to reach a specific amount saving to purchase a specific product retirement savings goals etc. Personal planning may include vacation planning job loss planning emergency planning and social networking data.

User financial history includes payment strategies of the user may have previously implemented previous earnings previous purchasing habits previously used purchase methods previous bills etc. that may be used by the system to determine a budget that may be suitable for the user to implement. Similarly situated individuals financial history includes the system reviewing and determining budgets for individuals that are in the similar financial local age etc. position as the user. In this way the user receives aggregate data for other individuals that are similarly situated to provide the user a budget.

In some embodiments the system may populate a user s wish list. In some embodiments the wish list may be populated manually by the user using an interface and or the like. In some embodiments the wish list may be set up automatically by the system for the user. In yet other embodiments the wish list may be set up via a combination of user input and system automatic wish list population. The user s wish list is a list that includes products that the user may wish to purchase or is planning to purchase in the future. These products may then be monitored for price changes discounts merchants providing the product similar products comments reviews of the product promotional offers for the product accompanying products and or the like. The real time video image of the product may be incorporated into the user s wish list such that upon selection of the wish list information about the product will be available to the user in real time. In this way the system may be able to receive images of the products the user may wish to provide to the user s wish list identify those products and update the user s wish list with those products.

In some embodiments the system provides a directory that comprises both the user budge and the user wish list. In this way the products and or budget data that is captured via real time video photograph still image internet and or the like may be provided to either the budget the wish list and or a combination thereof. In this way information may be exchanged between the budget and or the wish list. For example if the user selects a vehicle to be on his her wish list then the system may also provide the user with an updated budget that includes the vehicle incorporated into the budget.

In some embodiments the system may identify specific information about the product and or budget data such as the product price transaction entity associated with the product and or budget data etc. In this way the system may be able to identify the product and or budget data using the image provided to the system from the real time video stream. Using the specific information identified about the product and or the budget data the system may be able to populate the user s directory including the user s budget and or the user s wish list with the specific information. In this way the system may receive a real time video image of a product for example a television. The system may then identify the specifics about the television such as but not limited to the brand manufacturer model merchants selling the television prices discounts comments reviews etc. The system may then provide the user directory with this data such that the user s budget and or wish list may be populated.

In some embodiments the system may provide selectable indicators associated with the product and or budget data in the real time video stream. One or more indicators are presented on the display of the mobile device in conjunction with the real time video stream. Each of the indicators corresponds with an image determined to be a product and or budget data. The indicator may take various forms such as a display of a tag a highlighted area a hot spot and or the like. In some embodiments the indicator is a selectable indicator such that the user may select e.g. click on hover over touch the display provide a voice command etc. the product budget data or indicator to provide display of specific information related to the product and or budget data including for instance real time information about the user s budget and or wish list and the potential impact that the product and or budget data may have on the user s budget and or wish list. In other embodiments the indicator itself may provide the information or a portion of the information. For example a user may wish to purchase a television the user may use real time vision object recognition to recognize that the television within an isle at a retail store. The real time vision object recognition may consider the located at a specific retail store the characteristics of the television such as brand quality etc. and price of the television. The user may select the indicator. In some embodiments the selected indicator may display what the user s budget may look like in the future based on the user s potential purchase of the product. In other embodiments the selected indicator may display what the user s wish list with the product incorporated into the wish list.

Furthermore the display of the real time video stream on a mobile device may also provide the user with a direct video or audio conference with the user s financial advisor. In this way the user may be provided instant advisement from his financial advisor for advice when purchasing major purchases or when the user is facing significant financial decisions.

Finally the system may provide the user with the ability to purchase a product located within the real time video stream. In this way the user may select his her budget and or wish list and purchase the product. The product may be purchased on line through a merchant etc. using a mobile device.

Embodiments of the invention relate to systems methods and computer program products for populating a user directory comprising receiving financial information for a user wherein the financial information provides an indication of financial history of the user identifying by a computer device processor one or more products proximate in location to a mobile device determining a location in the user directory to populate with the one or more products wherein the user directory comprise at least one of a user budget or a user wish list receiving information about one or more products in the user directory wherein the information about one or more products comprises a price associated with the one or more products presenting via the mobile device a selectable indicator associated with the product wherein the indicators provides real time impact on the user directory based at least in part on the information about the one or more products identified proximate in location to the mobile device and providing access to the user directory by selection of the indicator associated with the product such that the at least one of the user budget or the user wish list is accessible.

In some embodiments the invention may further comprise providing the user with real time loan procurement for purchasing the one or more products proximate in location to the mobile device wherein the real time loan procurement is based at least in part on the receiving of financial information for a user.

In some embodiments the invention may further comprise providing a communicable link between the user and a financial advisor via the mobile device such that the financial advisor can advise the user based on the real time impact that purchasing one or more products proximate in location to the mobile device would have on the user budget and the user wish list. In some embodiments the real time impact on the user directory further comprises the real time impact that purchasing the one or more products proximate in location to the mobile device would have on the at least one of the user budget or the user wish list.

In some embodiments identifying one or more products further comprises capturing a tag located on or proximate to one or more of the products and reading the tag to identify the product. Identifying one or more products may further comprise capturing real time video of the one or more products product. Identifying one or more products may still further comprise capturing via the mobile device images of the one or more products. Capturing images further comprises implementing via a computer device processor object recognition processing to identify one or more images that correspond to one or more products.

In some embodiments the invention may further comprise developing a budget strategy wherein the budget strategy is based at least in part on said receiving financial information for the user wherein the receiving financial information comprises at least one of user transaction history user income user financial plans or user personal plans.

In some embodiments presenting an indicator associated with the product further comprises superimposing the indicator over real time video that is captured by the mobile device wherein the indicator is selectable by the user. In some embodiments one or more products further comprise budget data wherein budget data includes financial documents that influence the user budget or user wish list.

The features functions and advantages that have been discussed may be achieved independently in various embodiments of the present invention or may be combined with yet other embodiments further details of which can be seen with reference to the following description and drawings.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to elements throughout. Where possible any terms expressed in the singular form herein are meant to also include the plural form and vice versa unless explicitly stated otherwise. Also as used herein the term a and or an shall mean one or more even though the phrase one or more is also used herein. Although some embodiments of the invention herein are generally described as involving a financial institution one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other embodiments of the invention may involve other businesses that take the place of or work in conjunction with the financial institution to perform one or more of the processes or steps described herein as being performed by a financial institution. Still in other embodiments of the invention the financial institution described herein may be replaced with other types of businesses that offer payment account systems to users. Furthermore as used herein the term product shall mean any good service event etc. that may be provided to populate a user wish list and or a budget. Finally the term budget data as used herein shall mean any product document statement bill financial record etc. that may be used to populate a user budget and or wish list. In this way budget data may include any data that the user may wish to include into his her budget or use to set up his her budget.

While embodiments discussed herein are generally described with respect to real time video streams or real time video it will be appreciated that the video stream may be captured and stored for later viewing and analysis. Indeed in some embodiments video is recorded and stored on a mobile device and portions or the entirety of the video may be analyzed at a later time. The later analysis may be conducted on the mobile device or loaded onto a different device for analysis. The portions of the video that may be stored and analyzed may range from a single frame of video e.g. a screenshot to the entirety of the video. Additionally rather than video the user may opt to take a still picture of the environment to be analyzed immediately or at a later time. Embodiments in which real time video recorded video or still pictures are analyzed are contemplated herein.

Furthermore embodiments of the invention generally describe a user directory or directory. It will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that a directory may comprise any data that may be required for a wish list and or budget. Furthermore the term directory as described herein may include a budget a wish list and or a combination thereof.

Next in block a determination is made as to which images from the real time video stream are associated with products and or budget data to populate a user directory. The user directory comprising a user wish list and or a user budget. The determination is made by analyzing the real time video stream for objects logos artwork and or other product indicating features or business indications features to determine what the products and or budget data are within the video stream and to then incorporate the product and or budget data into the user s directory such that the product and or budget data may be incorporated into the user s wish list and or the user s budget. In some embodiments the product and or budget data may be provided via real time video stream voice communications text communications and or the like. In some embodiments a wish list is a list that includes products that the user may wish to purchase or is planning to purchase in the future. These products may then be monitored for price changes discounts etc. as well as being able to incorporate product of the user s wish list into the user s budget such that the user may be able to receive an indication as to the impact of purchasing a product on the wish list with respect to his her future financial state. In some embodiments a budget provides a financial plan that forecasts revenues and expenditures such that a model of financial performance may be obtained if certain strategies evens and or plans are carried out. Budgets may include plans for saving borrowing and or spending. Budgets may be utilized for macro category commercial micro groups sales production cash flow marketing project expenditure businesses and or any other potential budgeting requirement. The budgets may be used by any user including but not limited to individuals families businesses and or other entities.

Thereafter at block one or more indicators are presented on the display of the mobile device in conjunction with the real time video stream. The indicator may take various forms such as display of a tag a highlighted area a hot spot or the like. In specific embodiments the indicator is a selectable indicator such that a user may select e.g. click on hover over touch the display provide a voice command and or the like the product or indicator to provide display of specific information related to the product including but not limited to budgets with that product incorporated in budget impact data financing options for the product true cost of credit if the product is purchased user wish list incorporating the product and or the like. In some embodiments the indicator itself may provide the information or a portion of the information to the user.

The network may be a global area network GAN such as the Internet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN or any other type of network or combination of networks. The network may provide for wireline wireless or a combination wireline and wireless communication between devices on the network.

In some embodiments the user is an individual. In other embodiments the user may be associated with a business company and or other entity that may wish to utilize the system for budgeting and or wish list functionality. The user may be at a retail store near a service center at his her home and or within real time video range of any product and or budget data the user may wish to provide to the user directory to incorporate into a wish list and or budget.

As illustrated in the financial institution server generally comprises a communication device a processing device and a memory device . As used herein the term processing device generally includes circuitry used for implementing the communication and or logic functions of the particular system. For example a processing device may include a digital signal processor device a microprocessor device and various analog to digital converters digital to analog converters and other support circuits and or combinations of the foregoing. Control and signal processing functions of the system are allocated between these processing devices according to their respective capabilities. The processing device may include functionality to operate one or more software programs based on computer readable instructions thereof which may be stored in a memory device.

The processing device is operatively coupled to the communication device and the memory device . The processing device uses the communication device to communicate with the network and other devices on the network such as but not limited to the mobile device . As such the communication device generally comprises a modem server or other device for communicating with other devices on the network .

In some embodiments the processing device may also be capable of operating one or more applications such as one or more applications functioning as an artificial intelligence AI engine. The processing device may recognize objects that it has identified in prior uses by way of the AI engine. These objects may include products and or budged data. In this way the processing device may recognize specific objects and or classes of objects and store information related to the recognized objects in one or more memories and or databases discussed herein. Once the AI engine has thereby learned of an object and or class of objects the AI engine may run concurrently with and or collaborate with other modules or applications described herein to perform the various steps of the methods discussed. For example in some embodiments the AI engine recognizes an object that has been recognized before and stored by the AI engine. The AI engine may then communicate to another application or module of the mobile device and or server an indication that the object may be the same object previously recognized. In this regard the AI engine may provide a baseline or starting point from which to determine the nature of the object. In other embodiments the AI engine s recognition of an object is accepted as the final recognition of the object.

As further illustrated in the financial institution server comprises computer readable instructions stored in the memory device which in one embodiment includes the computer readable instructions of a financial institution application . In some embodiments the memory device includes data storage for storing data related to the budgets and wish lists populated including but not limited to data created and or used by the financial institution application and or used to populate and keep up to date budgets and wish lists.

In the embodiment illustrated in and described throughout much of this specification the financial institution application may provide the user of mobile device real time budget and or wish list updates incorporating product and or budget data located in a real time video stream by recognizing that an object either a product and or budget date is being captured in the real time video stream analyze the object to determine the correct location for the object in the directory add the object to the directory including budgets and or wish lists update the directory in real time to incorporate the object provide indications associated with the object to the user and allow the user to set up personal preferences associated with the directory.

In some embodiments the directory comprises a budget and a wish list for the user . A user budget may provide the user with real time indication as to how purchasing a product may affect the user s budget a future budget based on the purchasing of the product etc. In some embodiments wish list may provide the user with real time indications as to the user s current wish list current prices for products on the wish list etc.

Through the use of real time vision object recognition objects logos artwork products locations and other features that can be recognized in a real time video stream a still image a photograph image vehicle recognized image etc. The object can be matched to data associated with those objects logos artwork products locations or other features to determine products and or budget data located within those images. In this way the financial institution application may recognize and identify products and or budget data located within a real time video stream or the like.

In some embodiments as described in further detail below the financial institution application may recognize a marker and or objects within an environment . The marker may be interpreted with respect to data in the memory device and be recognized as possible products and or services that may be available to the user . In this way the financial institution server provides marker interpretation and analysis with respect to the data on the financial institution server .

The financial institution application may then analyze the objects to determine which products in the real time video stream are products that the user may wish to add to his her wish list and or budget. The product and or budget data may be determined from the objects in the images provided to the system via real time video stream still image photograph image vehicle recognized image etc. Products may include any good service etc. that a user may wish to purchase. For example a user may provide real time video images of a television that the user wishes to purchase. Budget data may include any product document statement bill financial record etc. that the user may wish to incorporate into his her budget. In this way the user may be able to capture an image of a product and or budget data and the product and or budget data in that image may be provided to the user s wish list and or the user s budget such that the user has real time wish list and budget data available. For example if a user is wishing to purchase a vehicle the user may take an image of the vehicle the financial institution application may recognize the vehicle and provide data associated with the vehicle to the user s budged. In this way the user may be able to receive information about how purchasing the vehicle may effect his her budget in the future best payment mechanism to purchase the vehicle how to receive a loan to purchase the vehicle and or if purchasing the vehicle is recommended based on the user s budgeting strategy. In other embodiments the products and or budget data that have been previously determined may be recognized with when images of the product and or budget data are located within the real time video stream. For example if a user has previously put a specific television on his her wish list. The user may use his her real time video stream to scan a planogram down a street a virtual store etc. The financial institution application may then identify the television and the location within the planogram merchant location on the street and or location in the virtual store such that the user may be able to locate the products on his her wish list using the system.

The financial institution application may then add the products and or budget data associated with the objects in the real time video stream to the user s directory. In some embodiments the financial institution application may identify specific information about the product and or budget data such as the product price transaction entity associated with the product and or budget data etc. Using the specific information identified about the product and or the budget data the financial institution application may be able to populate the user s directory including the user s budget and or the user s wish list with the specific information. For example the financial institution application may receive a real time video image of a product for example a television. The financial institution application may then identify the specifics about the television such as but not limited to the brand manufacturer model merchants selling the television prices discounts comments reviews etc. The financial institution application may then provide the user directory with this data such that the user s budget and or wish list may be populated.

The directory may be stored in the memory device of the financial institution server . The directory comprises both the user budge and the user wish list. In this way the products and or budget data that are captured via real time video photograph still image internet and or the like may be provided to the budget the wish list and or a combination thereof. In this way information may be exchanged between the budget and or the wish list within the directory. For example if the user selects a vehicle to be on his her wish list then the system may also provide the user with an updated budget that includes the vehicle incorporated into the budget.

The financial institution application may populate the user s budget and or wish list by directing information to the directory in the memory device of the financial institution server . In some embodiments the financial institution application may populate the budget within the directory with information about products and or budget data determined from the real time video stream. In other embodiments the financial institution application may populate the wish list within the directory with information about products and or budget data determined from the real time video stream. In yet other embodiments the financial institution application may populate both the budget and the wish list within the directory with information about products and or budget data determined from the real time video stream.

In some embodiments the financial institution application may populate the user s budget within directory. In some embodiments the information that the financial institution application utilizes to populate the budget may be from user inputted information. The information may be provided to the financial institution application via an interface or the like information to populate the user s budget and or the user s budget strategy. In other embodiments the financial institution application may automatically set up a user s budget and or budget strategy. In yet other embodiments a combination of user inputs and financial institution application automatic set up may be utilized to populate a budget and or budget strategy.

The financial institution application may aid the user or completely set up and populate the budget for the user utilizing several factors including but not limit to utilizing the user s financial plans the user s financial history similarly situated individuals financial history crowd sourcing data financial advisor recommendations and or the like. Financial plans of a user may include financial goals payment strategies tax strategies personal planning loan repayment e.g. student loan repayment car loan repayment etc. paying off credit card debt e.g. paying off one credit card with higher interest rates faster than other debt mortgage repayment and or the like. The financial goals of the user may include savings goals such as saving for a child s college investments saving to reach a specific amount saving to purchase a specific product retirement savings goals etc. Personal planning may include vacation planning job loss planning emergency planning and social networking data. The financial institution application may via the communication device to communication with the other systems on the network such as but not limited to mobile devices . In this way the financial institution application may utilize the financial institution server and the other systems on the network to determine information listed able to set up and or populate the budget.

In some embodiments the financial institution application may set up and populate a user s wish list. In some embodiments the financial institution application may allow the user to populate the wish list using an interface such as the one illustrated in . In some embodiments the wish list may be set up automatically by the financial institution application for the user . In yet other embodiments the wish list may be set up and populated via a combination of user input and by the financial institution application .

In some embodiments the financial institution application may update the user s directly in real time to incorporate the products and or budget data that is located in the real time video stream. In this way the financial institution application may incorporate the products and or budget data into the directory such that the financial institution application may provide the user with real time updates to the user s budget and or user s wish list. For example if the user is taking a real time video stream of a vehicle the vehicle may be recognized by the financial institution application and information about the vehicle may be incorporated into the user s budget and or wish list.

The financial institution application may also provide the user with a direct video or audio conference with the user s financial advisor. In this way the user may be provided instant advisement from his her financial advisor for advice when purchasing major purchases or when the user is facing significant financial decisions.

The financial institution application may provide the user with the ability to purchase a product located within the real time video stream. In this way the user may select his her budget and or wish list and purchase the product using the user s mobile device .

The financial institution application may also allow the user to set up and edit personal preferences associated with the directory. In this way the financial institution application allows the user may be able to set up the type of budget wish list etc. that may fit his her needs.

As further illustrated is is an environment . The user may utilizes a mobile device to capture real time video of an environment in an augmented reality experience. As described in further detail below with respect to the mobile device may be any mobile communication device. The mobile device has the capability of capturing real time video an image a picture from the Internet and or the like of the surrounding environment . The real time video or image capture may be by any means known in the art such as for example a mobile telephone equipped with a camera capable of video capture.

The environment contains a number of objects . Objects include but are not limited to products and or services for which the user may wish to view a recommended appropriate payment account. For example an object may be a product such as a television vehicle computer etc. or an object may be a budget data such as a bill statement check etc. Some of such objects may include a marker identifiable by the mobile device or application accessible through the mobile device . A marker may be any type of marker that is a distinguishing feature that can be interpreted to identify specific objects . In some embodiments the marker may be interpreted by the mobile device . In other embodiments the marker may be interpreted by the financial institution server . In yet other embodiments the marker may be interpreted by both the mobile device and the financial institution server . For instance a marker may be alpha numeric characters symbol logo shape ratio of size of one feature to another feature a product identifying code such as a bar code electromagnetic radiation such as radio waves e.g. radio frequency identification RFID architectural features color etc. In some embodiments the marker may be audio and the mobile device may be capable of utilizing audio recognition to identify words or unique sounds broadcast by the products service location merchant etc. The marker may be any size shape etc. Indeed in some embodiments the marker may be very small relative to the object such as the alpha numeric characters that identify the name or model of an object whereas in other embodiments the marker is the entire object such as the unique shape size structure etc.

In some embodiments the marker is not actually a physical marker located on or being broadcast by the object . For instance the marker may be some type of identifiable feature that is an indication that the object is nearby. In some embodiments the marker for an object may actually be the marker for a different object . For example the mobile device may recognize a particular building as being Building A. Data stored in the data storage may indicate that Building B is located directly to the east and next to Building A. Thus marker for an object that are not located on or being broadcast by the object are generally based on fixed facts about the object e.g. Building B is next to Building A . However it is not a requirement that such a marker be such a fixed fact. The marker may be anything that enables the mobile device and or the financial institution application to interpret to a desired confidence level what the object is. For example the mobile device object recognition application and or AR presentation application may be used to identify a particular person as a first character from a popular show and thereafter utilize the information that the first character is nearby features of other characters to interpret that a second character a third character etc. are nearby whereas without the identification of the first character the features of the second and third characters may not have been used to identify the second and third characters.

The marker may also be or include social network data such as data retrieved or communicated from the Internet such as tweets blog posts social networking site posts various types of messages and or the like. In other embodiments the marker is provided in addition to social network data as mentioned above. For example mobile device may capture a video stream and or one or more still shots of a large gathering of people. In this example as above one or more people dressed as characters in costumes may be present at a specified location. The mobile device object recognition application and or the AR presentation application may identify several social network indicators such as posts blogs tweets messages and or the like indicating the presence of one or more of the characters at the specified location. In this way the mobile device and associated applications may communicate information regarding the social media communications to the user and or use the information regarding the social media communications in conjunction with other methods of object recognition. For example the mobile device object recognition application and or the AR presentation application performing recognition of the characters at the specified location may confirm that the characters being identified are in fact the correct characters based on the retrieved social media communications. This example may also be applied objects outside of people.

In some embodiments the mobile device and or server accesses one or more other servers social media networks applications and or the like in order to retrieve and or search for information useful in performing an object recognition. In some embodiments the mobile device and or server accesses another application by way of an application programming interface or API. In this regard the mobile device and or server may quickly search and or retrieve information from the other program without requiring additional authentication steps or other gateway steps.

While illustrates that the objects with markers only include a single marker it will be appreciated that the object may have any number of markers with each equally capable of identifying the object . Similarly multiple markers may be identified by the mobile device such that the combination of the markers may be utilized to identify the object . For example the facial recognition may identify a person as a famous athlete and thereafter utilize the uniform the person is wearing to confirm that it is in fact the famous athlete.

In some embodiments a marker may be the location of the object . In such embodiments the mobile device may utilize GPS software to determine the location of the user . As noted above a location based marker could be utilized in conjunction with other non location based markers identifiable and recognized by the mobile device to identify the object . However in some embodiments a location based marker may be the only marker . For instance in such embodiments the mobile device may utilize GPS software to determine the location of the user and a compass device or software to determine what direction the mobile device is facing in order to identify the object . In still further embodiments the mobile device does not utilize any GPS data in the identification. In such embodiments markers utilized to identify the object are not location based.

The mobile device may generally include a processing device communicably coupled to such devices as a memory device user output devices user input devices a network interface a power source a clock or other timer a camera a positioning system device one or more chips etc.

In some embodiments the mobile device and or the server access one or more databases or datastores not shown to search for and or retrieve information related to the object and or marker. In some embodiments the mobile device and or the server access one or more datastores local to the mobile device and or server and in other embodiments the mobile device and or server access datastores remote to the mobile device and or server. In some embodiments the mobile device and or server access both a memory and or datastore local to the mobile device and or server as well as a datastore remote from the mobile device and or server.

The processing device may include functionality to operate one or more software programs or applications which may be stored in the memory device . For example the processing device may be capable of operating a connectivity program such as a web browser application . The web browser application may then allow the mobile device to transmit and receive web content such as for example location based content and or other web page content according to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and or the like.

The processing device may also be capable of operating applications such as an object recognition application and or an AR presentment application . The object recognition application and or AR presentment application may be downloaded from a server and stored in the memory device of the mobile device . Alternatively the object recognition application and or AR presentment application may be pre installed and stored in a memory in the chip . In such an embodiment the user may not need to download the object recognition application and or the AR presentment application from a server. In this way the object recognition application and or the AR presentment application may remain at the server such as the financial institution server within the financial institution application .

The object recognition application provides the mobile device with object recognition capabilities. In this way objects such as products and or the like may be recognized by the object itself and or markers associated with the objects . This is described in further detail below with respect to . In this way the object recognition application may communicate with other devices on the network to determine the object within the real time video stream.

The AR presentment application provides the mobile device with AR capabilities. In this way the AR presentment application may provide superimposed indicators related to the object in the real time video stream such that the user may have access to the targeted offers by selecting an indicator superimposed on the real time video stream. The AR presentment application may communicate with the other devices on the network to provide the user with indications associated with targeted offers for objects in the real time video display. The presentation and selection of indicators provided to the user via the AR presentment application is described in further detail below with respect to .

In some embodiments the processor may also be capable of operating one or more applications such as one or more applications functioning as an artificial intelligence AI engine. The processor may recognize objects that it has identified in prior uses by way of the AI engine. In this way the processor may recognize specific objects and or classes of objects and store information related to the recognized objects in one or more memories and or databases discussed herein. Once the AI engine has thereby learned of an object and or class of objects the AI engine may run concurrently with and or collaborate with other modules or applications described herein to perform the various steps of the methods discussed. For example in some embodiments the AI engine recognizes an object that has been recognized before and stored by the AI engine. The AI engine may then communicate to another application or module of the mobile device and or server an indication that the object may be the same object previously recognized. In this regard the AI engine may provide a baseline or starting point from which to determine the nature of the object. In other embodiments the AI engine s recognition of an object is accepted as the final recognition of the object.

The chip may include the necessary circuitry to provide both object recognition and AR functionality to the mobile device . Generally the chip will include data storage which may include data associated with the objects within a real time video stream that the object recognition application identifies as having a certain marker s . The chip and or data storage may be an integrated circuit a microprocessor a system on a chip a microcontroller or the like. As discussed above in one embodiment the chip may provide both object recognition and or the AR functionality to the mobile device .

Of note while illustrates the chip as a separate and distinct element within the mobile device it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the chip functionality may be incorporated within other elements in the mobile device . For instance the functionality of the chip may be incorporated within the memory device and or the processing device . In a particular embodiment the functionality of the chip is incorporated in an element within the mobile device that provides the object recognition and AR capabilities to the mobile device . Still further the chip functionality may be included in a removable storage device such as an SD card or the like.

The processing device may be configured to use the network interface to communicate with one or more other devices on a network such as but not limited to the financial institution server . In this regard the network interface may include an antenna operatively coupled to a transmitter and a receiver together a transceiver . The processing device may be configured to provide signals to and receive signals from the transmitter and receiver respectively. The signals may include signaling information in accordance with the air interface standard of the applicable cellular system of the wireless telephone network that may be part of the network . In this regard the mobile device may be configured to operate with one or more air interface standards communication protocols modulation types and access types. By way of illustration the mobile device may be configured to operate in accordance with any of a number of first second third and or fourth generation communication protocols and or the like. For example the mobile device may be configured to operate in accordance with second generation 2G wireless communication protocols IS 136 time division multiple access TDMA GSM global system for mobile communication and or IS 95 code division multiple access CDMA or with third generation 3G wireless communication protocols such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS CDMA2000 wideband CDMA WCDMA and or time division synchronous CDMA TD SCDMA with fourth generation 4G wireless communication protocols and or the like. The mobile device may also be configured to operate in accordance with non cellular communication mechanisms such as via a wireless local area network WLAN or other communication data networks.

The network interface may also include an application interface in order to allow a user to execute some or all of the above described processes with respect to the object recognition application the AR presentment application and or the chip . The application interface may have access to the hardware e.g. the transceiver and software previously described with respect to the network interface . Furthermore the application interface may have the ability to connect to and communicate with an external data storage on a separate system within the network . In some embodiments the external AR data is stored in the memory device of the financial institution server .

As described above the mobile device may have a user interface that includes user output devices and or user input devices . The user output devices may include a display e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or the like and a speaker or other audio device which are operatively coupled to the processing device . The user input devices which may allow the mobile device to receive data from a user may include any of a number of devices allowing the mobile device to receive data from a user such as a keypad keyboard touch screen touchpad microphone mouse joystick other pointer device button soft key and or other input device s .

The mobile device may further include a power source . Generally the power source is a device that supplies electrical energy to an electrical load. In some embodiment power source may convert a form of energy such as solar energy chemical energy mechanical energy etc. to electrical energy. Generally the power source in a mobile device may be a battery such as a lithium battery a nickel metal hydride battery or the like that is used for powering various circuits e.g. the transceiver circuit and other devices that are used to operate the mobile device . Alternatively the power source may be a power adapter that can connect a power supply from a power outlet to the mobile device . In such embodiments a power adapter may be classified as a power source in the mobile device.

The mobile device may also include a memory device operatively coupled to the processing device . As used herein memory may include any computer readable medium configured to store data code or other information. The memory device may include volatile memory such as volatile Random Access Memory RAM including a cache area for the temporary storage of data. The memory device may also include non volatile memory which can be embedded and or may be removable. The non volatile memory may additionally or alternatively include an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or the like.

The memory device may store any of a number of applications or programs which comprise computer executable instructions code executed by the processing device to implement the functions of the mobile device described herein. For example the memory device may include such applications as an object recognition application an AR presentment application a web browser application an SMS application an email application etc.

The object recognition application of the mobile device may use any type of means in order to identify desired objects . For instance the object recognition application may utilize one or more pattern recognition algorithms to analyze objects in the environment and compare with markers in data storage which may be contained within the mobile device such as within chip or externally on a separate system accessible via the connected network such as but not limited to the financial institution server . For example the pattern recognition algorithms may include decision trees logistic regression Bayes classifiers support vector machines kernel estimation perceptrons clustering algorithms regression algorithms categorical sequence labeling algorithms real valued sequence labeling algorithms parsing algorithms general algorithms for predicting arbitrarily structured labels such as Bayesian networks and Markov random fields ensemble learning algorithms such as bootstrap aggregating boosting ensemble averaging combinations thereof and the like.

Upon identifying an object within the real time video stream via the object recognition application the mobile device is configured to superimpose a virtual image on the mobile device display utilizing the AR presentment application . The virtual image is generally a tab or link displayed such that the user may select the virtual image and retrieve information related to the identified object. The information may include any desired information associated with the selected object and may range from basic information to greatly detailed information. In some embodiments the virtual image may provide the user with an internet hyperlink to further information on the object . The information may include for example all types of media such as text images clipart video clips movies or any other type of information desired. In yet other embodiments the virtual image information related to the identified object may be visualized by the user without selecting the virtual image .

In embodiments in which the virtual image provides an interactive tab to the user utilizing the AR presentment application of the mobile device the user may select the virtual image by any conventional means for interaction with the mobile device . For instance in some embodiments the user may utilize an input device such as a keyboard to highlight and select the virtual image in order to retrieve the information. In a particular embodiment the mobile device display includes a touch screen that the user may employ to select the virtual image utilizing the user s finger a stylus or the like.

In some embodiments the virtual image is not interactive and simply provides information to the user by superimposing the virtual image onto the display . For example in some instances it may be beneficial for the object recognition application and or the AR presentment application to merely identify an object just identify the object s name title give brief information about the object etc. rather than provide extensive detail that requires interaction with the virtual image . The mobile device along with the object recognition application and or the AR presentment application are capable of being tailored to a user s desired preferences.

Furthermore the virtual image may be displayed at any size on the mobile device display . The virtual image may be small enough that it is positioned on or next to the object being identified such that the object remains discernable behind the virtual image . Additionally the virtual image may be semi transparent such that the object remains discernable behind the virtual image. In other embodiments the virtual image may be large enough to completely cover the object portrayed on the display . Indeed in some embodiments the virtual image may cover a majority or the entirety of the mobile device display .

The user may opt to execute the object recognition application and or the AR presentment application at any desired moment and begin video capture and analysis. However in some embodiments the object recognition application and or the AR presentment application includes an always on feature in which the mobile device is continuously capturing video and analyzing the objects within the video stream. In such embodiments the object recognition application may be configured to alert the user that a particular object has been identified. The user may set any number of user preferences to tailor the AR experience to his needs. For instance the user may opt to only be alerted if a certain particular object is identified. Additionally it will be appreciated that the always on feature in which video is continuously captured may consume the mobile device power source more quickly. Thus in some embodiments the always on feature may disengage if a determined event occurs such as low power source low levels of light for an extended period of time e.g. such as if the mobile device is in a user s pocket obstructing a clear view of the environment from the mobile device if the mobile device remains stationary thus receiving the same video stream for an extended period of time the user sets a certain time of day to disengage etc. Conversely if the always on feature is disengaged due to the occurrence of such an event the user may opt for the always on feature to re engage after the duration of the disengaging event e.g. power source is re charged light levels are increased etc. .

In some embodiments the user may identify objects that the object recognition application does not identify and add it to the data storage with desired information in order to be identified and or displayed in the future. For instance the user may select an unidentified object and enter a name title and or any other desired information for the unidentified object . In such embodiments the object recognition application may detect record certain markers about the object so that the pattern recognition algorithm s or other identification means may detect the object in the future. Furthermore in cases where the object information is within the data storage but the object recognition application fails to identify the object e.g. one or more identifying characteristics or markers of the object has changed since it was added to the data storage or the marker simply was not identified the user may select the object and associate it with an object already stored in the data storage . In such cases the object recognition application may be capable of updating the markers for the object in order to identify the object in future real time video streams.

In addition in some embodiments the user may opt to edit the information or add to the information provided by the virtual image . For instance the user may opt to include user specific information about a certain object such that the information may be displayed upon a future identification of the object . Conversely in some embodiments the user may opt to delete or hide an object from being identified and a virtual image associated therewith being displayed on the mobile device display .

Furthermore in some instances an object may include one or more markers identified by the object recognition application that leads the object recognition application to associate an object with more than one object in the data storage . In such instances the user may be presented with the multiple candidate identifications and may opt to choose the appropriate identification or input a different identification. The multiple candidates may be presented to the user by any means. For instance in one embodiment the candidates are presented to the user as a list wherein the strongest candidate is listed first based on reliability of the identification. Upon input by the user identifying the object the object recognition application may learn from the input and store additional markers in order to avoid multiple identification candidates for the same object in future identifications.

Additionally the object recognition application may utilize other metrics for identification than identification algorithms. For instance the object recognition application may utilize the user s location time of day season weather speed of location changes e.g. walking versus traveling busyness e.g. how many objects are in motion versus stationary in the video stream as well any number of other conceivable factors in determining the identification of objects . Moreover the user may input preferences or other metrics for which the object recognition application may utilize to narrow results of identified objects .

The AR presentment application may then provide virtual objects or indicators associated with the objects in the real time video stream. The AR presentment application in this way may provide for superimposing a virtual object and or indicators associated with objects in the video stream such that the user may receive more information associated with the object in the real time video stream.

In some embodiments the AR presentment application may have the ability to gather and report user interactions with displayed virtual images . The data elements gathered and reported may include but are not limited to number of offer impressions time spent viewing an offer product object or business number of offers investigated via a selection number of offers loaded to an electronic wallet and the like. Such user interactions may be reported to any type of entity desired. In one particular embodiment the user interactions may be reported to a financial institution and the information reported may include user financial behavior purchase power transaction history and the like.

In some embodiments the information provided by the real time video stream may be compared to data provided to the system through an API. In this way the data may be stored in a separate API and be implemented by request from the mobile device and or server accesses another application by way of an API.

In various embodiments information associated with or related to one or more objects that is retrieved for presentation to a user via the mobile device may be permanently or semi permanently associated with the object. In other words the object may be tagged with the information. In some embodiments a location pointer is associated with an object after information is retrieved regarding the object. In this regard subsequent mobile devices capturing the object for recognition may retrieve the associated information tags and or pointers in order to more quickly retrieve information regarding the object. In some embodiments the mobile device provides the user an opportunity to post messages links to information or the like and associate such postings with the object. Subsequent users may then be presenting such postings when their mobile devices capture and recognize an object. In some embodiments the information gathered through the recognition and information retrieval process may be posted by the user in association with the object. Such tags and or postings may be stored in a predetermined memory and or database for ease of searching and retrieval.

Once the information is provided to the directory in block in decision block a determination is made as to whether the mobile device is still capturing video stream of an object product and or budget data. If no video stream is being captured then no indicator is presented in block via the AR presentment application . If a video stream is still being capture then in block indicators are continuing to be presented. The indicators are associated with a product and or budget data that the user may visualize in an environment via the AR presentment application . In some embodiments the user may be provided with a real time updated wish list and or budget prior to selecting an indicator. In some embodiments as illustrated in block a user may receive directory information such as budget and or wish list data after the user selects the indicator.

Next as illustrated in block the user may select an indicator associated with the product and or budget data located in the real time video stream to obtain information about the product and or budget data. In this way the information may be provided to the user s budget and wish list in real time such that the user may be able to see his her budget and wish list with the product and or budget data associated therein.

A user budget provides a financial plan that forecasts revenues and expenditures such that a model of financial performance may be obtained if certain strategies evens and or plans are carried out. Budgets may include plans for saving borrowing and or spending. In some embodiments the budget may provide the user with real time indication as to how purchasing a product may affect the user s budget a future budget based on the purchasing of the product changes in the budget loans for purchasing the product connection to a financial analyst etc.

A user wish list is a list that includes products that the user may wish to purchase or is planning to purchase in the future. These products may then be monitored for price changes discounts merchants providing the product similar products comments reviews of the product promotional offers for the product accompanying products and or the like.

As illustrated in block the user may be able to upon selecting the indicator review the product and or budget data within the user s budget and wish list. As also illustrated in block the user may be able to communicate with a financial provider and if the image corresponds to a product the user may be able to purchase the product.

The user s wish list is a list that includes products that the user may wish to purchase or is planning to purchase in the future. In some embodiments the wish list may be populated manually by the user using an interface and or the like. In some embodiments the wish list may be set up automatically by the system for the user. In yet other embodiments the wish list may be set up via a combination of user input and system automatic wish list population. The wish list may be provided to the user through an interface such as that illustrated in . The real time video image of the product may be incorporated into the user s wish list such that upon selection of the wish list information about the product will be available to the user in real time. In this way the system may be able to receive images of the products the user may wish to provide to the user s wish list identify those products and update the user s wish list with those products. The wish list stores a list of products that the user may wish to purchase or is planning to purchase in the further. The system may monitor the products on the wish list to find the best price identify price changes find merchants selling the products find promotional offers for the products compare similar products comments reviews of the product accompanying products and or the like. Furthermore the system allows the user to set up preferences for the wish list as illustrated in block . In this way the user may be able to select what information the system may display with respect to the products on the user s wish list the purchase order of the products and other selectable preferences. For example the user may not wish to see information about products that are similar to the product on the wish list instead the user knows that he she wants to purchase that particular product. Therefore the user may set up the wish list to only notify him her when there is a promotion change in price etc. for that particular product. Utilizing the set up capabilities of the wish list the user may be able to completely customize the user s wish list to his her preferences. Finally product on the user s wish list may also be incorporated into the user s budget such that the user may be able to receive an indication as to the impact of purchasing a product on the wish list with respect to his her future financial state.

The user s budget provides a financial plan that forecasts revenues and expenditures such that a model of financial performance may be obtained if certain strategies evens and or plans are carried out. The user s budget may include plans for saving borrowing and or spending. The user s budget may be a single budget or may be multiple budgets. The budgets may include but are not limited to macro category commercial micro groups sales production cash flow marketing project expenditure businesses and or any other potential budgeting requirement. The budgets may be used by any user including but not limited to individuals families businesses corporations merchants manufacturers and or other entities. In some embodiments the user may input via an interface such as that illustrated in or the like information to set up the user s budget . In other embodiments the system may automatically set up a user s budget . In yet other embodiments a combination of user input and automatic system input may be utilized to set up the user s budget .

In some embodiments the user may set up the user s budget . The user may input several items into the budget such as but not limited to answering of financial questions from the system input of financial plans input of financial history bills statements expenses savings input goals etc. to set up the user s budget to the user s specific needs. In this way the user may be able to set up budgets for overall budgeting micro budgeting the user s place of business etc. by imputing preferences and budgeting goals. The system may then automatically run the user s budget based on the user s inputs. Furthermore the system may provide purchase and other budgeting recommendations based on the user s input.

In some embodiments the system may aid the user or completely set up the user s budget utilizing several factors including but not limit to utilizing financial plans the user s financial history similarly situated individuals financial history crowd sourcing data financial advisor recommendations and or the like to set up the user s budget. Information associated with these factors may be known to the system based on the unique position with respect to financial institution data associated with the user .

Financial plans of a user may include financial goals payment strategies tax strategies personal planning loan repayment e.g. student loan repayment car loan repayment etc. paying off credit card debt e.g. paying off one credit card with higher interest rates faster than other debt mortgage repayment and or the like. The financial goals of the user may include savings goals such as saving for a child s college investments saving to reach a specific amount saving to purchase a specific product retirement savings goals etc. Personal planning may include vacation planning job loss planning emergency planning and social networking data.

User financial history includes payment strategies of the user may have previously implemented previous earnings previous purchasing habits previously used purchase methods previous bills etc. that may be used by the system to determine a budget that may be suitable for the user to implement. Similarly situated individuals financial history includes the system reviewing and determining budgets for individuals that are in the similar financial local age etc. position as the user . In this way the user receives aggregate data for other individuals that are similarly situated to provide to the user s budget .

The user s budget may comprise financing for the user budget adjustment goals strategies and planning . These may be provided to the user in real time such that the user may realize how making a financial decision may impact financing for the user budget adjustment goals strategies and planning that has previously been set up as the user s budget .

Next as illustrated in block the user upon selecting the indicator associated with the product or budget data in the real time video stream may be directed to an interface associated with the user s wish list and or budget. In some embodiments the user s wish list and or budget may be displayed as part of the indicator on the real time video stream. In yet other embodiments upon selecting the indicator the user may be directed to his her wish list and or budget. The wish list may be provided to the user through an interface such as that illustrated in . The budget may be provided to the user through an interface such as that illustrated in .

The wish list interface in some embodiments requires entering information for security reasons. At this point the user may enter a user name a password and a reply to a security question in the security section of the wish list interface . If the user name password and the reply to a security question are satisfactory the interface prompts the user to the next step in the process. For example if the user name is being used by a current user the new user will be prompted to create a different user name . The user may provide products that the user may wish to purchase will purchase or is interested in purchasing via the wish list interface in the information about image to add to wish list section .

The information about image to add to wish list section of the wish list interface may allow for adding products to the wish list and subsequently viewing products currently on the user s wish list. The user may be provided a visualization of the image in the real time video stream in section . The user may also be provided with information about the product in the image in section . This information may include but is not limited to the price of the product the price of the product at different merchants specifications of the product promotions etc. At this point the user may select the product in the real time video stream to be incorporated into the user s wish list as illustrated in section . Once the user has selected the product the user may add the product to his her current wish list by selecting the add button.

Once the user has selected the add button the product in the image may appear on the user s current wish list . The wish list has a compilation of all the products that have been added to the user s wish list. The products may have been added during a previous session or during the session. If the user wishes he she may remove a product from the current wish list if it is no longer a product the user may wish to purchase. In some embodiments the system may automatically remove the product if the system has received an indication that the user has purchased the product or a similar product. The user may also select products on his her currently wish list and view images of the products that are on the wish list by selecting the show image of product on wish list section .

Along with the current wish list the user may be able to select current information about the products on the wish list as illustrated in section . The information available for the user may include but is not limited to merchant location price sales promotions alternative products and accompanying products . Merchant location provides the user with an indication of all the merchants online virtual physical and the like that currently are selling one or more products on the user s wish list. Price includes the price of the products on the user s wish list including the price for the product at any of the merchants where the product is found price differences compared to a previous price found at that merchant and future potential price changes the system may predict may occur. Sales include any merchant sales for the product on the wish list alternative products and or accompanying products. Promotions includes any discounts offers coupons etc. that may be available via the Internet and or any other merchant. Alternative products include products that are similar to the product on the user s wish list but instead may be a different model brand type etc. Accompanying products include products that may accompany the product on the wish list. For example if the user has a bicycle on his her wish list then accompanying products may include bike shorts a helmet water bottles a trainer warranty information etc. In this way the user may be able to purchase the product on his her wish list as well as the accessories that may be needed to go along with the product.

Financing for the purchase of the product may also be available to the user through the wish list interface of . As illustrated in section the user may be able to finance the purchase of the product on his her wish list. Financing may include providing access to the user s budget in section such that the user may be able to see how the purchase of the product may affect the user s budget in the future. Financing may also include a payment account section such that a user may be able to see which payment account the system or the financial institution through a financial advisor may recommend for the purchase of the product. Finally financing the purchase of a product may include loan procurement such that the user may receive real time loan procurement for the purchase of the product. Loan procurement may be provided and approved by the financial institution in real time such that the user may not have to wait to purchase a product to ensure financing from a financial institution. For example a user may wish to purchase a vehicle using a loan from a financial institution. If the user selects the indicator associated with the vehicle he wishes to purchase the financial institution may approve him for a loan at that point. The rates variables and conditions for the loan will be provided to the user . The user may also provide the data to the car dealer so that the car dealer may have knowledge of the approved loan. Therefore expediting the user s purchase of products that may require financing. Once the user has completed using his her wish list the user may select the finished button in order to close out of the wish list interface .

As illustrated in at section of the budget interface the user may select which of the user s budgets to view. In this way the system may allow the user to have many different budgets through the system at one time. In the embodiment illustrated in the user has three budgets Budget A Budget B and Budget C to select from. Once the user selects the budget he she wishes to utilize the user may then in section view or add financial plans. Financial plans of a user may include but are not limited to financial goals payment strategies tax strategies and or personal planning.

In this way the financial plans section may include sub sections such as the financial goals section the payment strategies and personal plans . Financial goals may include savings goals such as saving for a child s college making an investment saving to reach a specific amount or saving for retirement. In some embodiments a user may have multiple savings goals of which some may be more important than others to the user at a particular time. Payment strategies may include loan repayment such as repaying a student loan a car loan a personal bank loan etc. Payment strategies may also include paying off debt such as mortgage repayment credit card debt repayment or personal debt repayment. Personal plans may include vacation planning job loss planning emergency planning social networking data and or tax planning. Vacation planning may include a user saving for airfare lodging or other travel expenses. Job loss planning allows the user to direct the payment determination account to allocate financial transaction requests to accounts to maximize finances in case of a situation of unemployment. Emergency planning allows the user to direct the system to allocate transaction requests to accounts to maximize available financial resources to use in case of an emergency situation. Tax planning allows the user to direct the payment determination account to allocate transaction requests to accounts to utilize tax planning strategies set by the user .

The user may input financial plans via the budget interface as illustrated in . In other embodiments the system may automatically provide the user with financial plans . In this way the system may utilize the financial institution server and the other systems on the network to determine information about the user such as but not limited to his her prior finances prior purchases crowd sourcing similarly situated individual budgets wish lists etc. to set up and or populate the budget.

Next in section of the budget interface the user may rank the budget s importance . In this way if the user has multiple budgets for example an overall budget an entertainment budget a food budget and or the like the user may be able to rank the budgets that are more important. In this way if a user makes a purchase of a product in one budget the impact of the purchase may be shifted to a less or more important budget in order for the user s budgets to balance out. Furthermore the user may be able to rank aspects associated with determining the user s budget such as financial goals in section and plans in section . In this way the user s budget may be implemented with the goals or plans that are most important to the user allowing the budget to be adapted to the user s specific needs.

In some embodiments the ranking of goals and or plans provides a selection box to add a numerical value to each of the goals and or plan or other ranking or rating indicator. For example the user that had student loans a car loan and a mortgage to repay may want to focus his repayments to the loan having the highest interest rates. Therefore the user may rank the highest interest rate loan as the most important goal in his financial plan.

In some embodiments the user may be provided with current budget graphs . These graphs may include but are not limited to charts graphs tables etc. that may allow a user to visualize his her budget quickly and easily. In the embodiment illustrated in there are pie graphs indicating the user s current budget and the user s updated budget . The user s updated budget incorporates the potential purchase of a product in the real time video stream. In this way the user s updated budget may reflect the user s potential future budget change with respect to if the user purchases a product. The current budget pie chart shows the percent of funds dedicated to allocated areas including retail store purchases fuel purchases grocery purchases entertainment purchases and payment of bills . In this way the user may visualize his her current purchase habits and current budgeting of expenses in these areas. The updated budget allows a user to visualize the change and or deviation from the current budget that purchasing a product in the real time video stream. As illustrated the purchasing of the product may affect the user s current budget by shifting a larger portion of the budget into the entertainment area. Once the user has completed utilizing his her budget interface the user may select the finished button to exit his her budget.

Referring back to the system at any time during or after the user has utilized his her wish list and or budget data the user may in decision block be linked to a financial advisor via the user s mobile device . In this way if the user has a budgeting and or wish list question the user may be able to communicate at any time with a financial advisor that may provide the user with suggestions on any aspect of the budget and or wish list. If the user does not wish to be linked to a financial advisor in decision block the user may proceed back to the user s wish list and or budget . If the user decides to be linked to a financial advisor in decision block the user may through audio communication text communication and or the like be provided the ability to communication with the financial advisor as illustrated in block .

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the present invention may be embodied as an apparatus including for example a system a machine a device a computer program product and or the like as a method including for example a business process a computer implemented process and or the like or as any combination of the foregoing. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention may take the form of an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. an entirely hardware embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may generally be referred to herein as a system. Furthermore embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product that includes a computer readable storage medium having computer executable program code portions stored therein. As used herein a processor may be configured to perform a certain function in a variety of ways including for example by having one or more general purpose circuits perform the functions by executing one or more computer executable program code portions embodied in a computer readable medium and or having one or more application specific circuits perform the function.

It will be understood that any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer readable medium may include but is not limited to a non transitory computer readable medium such as a tangible electronic magnetic optical infrared electromagnetic and or semiconductor system apparatus and or device. For example in some embodiments the non transitory computer readable medium includes a tangible medium such as a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM and or some other tangible optical and or magnetic storage device. In other embodiments of the present invention however the computer readable medium may be transitory such as a propagation signal including computer executable program code portions embodied therein.

It will also be understood that one or more computer executable program code portions for carrying out operations of the present invention may include object oriented scripted and or unscripted programming languages such as for example Java Perl Smalltalk C SAS SQL Python Objective C and or the like. In some embodiments the one or more computer executable program code portions for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention are written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming languages and or similar programming languages. The computer program code may alternatively or additionally be written in one or more multi paradigm programming languages such as for example F .

It will further be understood that some embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of systems methods and or computer program products. It will be understood that each block included in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks included in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams may be implemented by one or more computer executable program code portions. These one or more computer executable program code portions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer and or some other programmable data processing apparatus in order to produce a particular machine such that the one or more computer executable program code portions which execute via the processor of the computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus create mechanisms for implementing the steps and or functions represented by the flowchart s and or block diagram block s .

It will also be understood that the one or more computer executable program code portions may be stored in a transitory or non transitory computer readable medium e.g. a memory etc. that can direct a computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the computer executable program code portions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction mechanisms which implement the steps and or functions specified in the flowchart s and or block diagram block s .

The one or more computer executable program code portions may also be loaded onto a computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer and or other programmable apparatus. In some embodiments this produces a computer implemented process such that the one or more computer executable program code portions which execute on the computer and or other programmable apparatus provide operational steps to implement the steps specified in the flowchart s and or the functions specified in the block diagram block s . Alternatively computer implemented steps may be combined with operator and or human implemented steps in order to carry out an embodiment of the present invention.

Thus methods systems computer programs and the like have been disclosed that provide for using real time video analysis such as AR or the like to assist the user of mobile devices with commerce activities. Through the use real time vision object recognition objects logos artwork products locations and other features that can be recognized in the real time video stream can be matched to data associated with such to assist the user with commerce activity. The commerce activity may include but is not limited to conducting a transaction providing information about a product service providing rewards based information providing user specific offers or the like. In specific embodiments the data that matched to the images in the real time video stream is specific to financial institutions such as user financial behavior history user purchase power transaction history and the like. In this regard many of the embodiments herein disclosed leverage financial institution data which is uniquely specific to financial institution in providing information to mobile devices users in connection with real time video stream analysis.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

The systems methods computer program products etc. described herein may be utilized or combined with any other suitable AR related application. Non limiting examples of other suitable AR related applications include those described in the following U.S. Provisional Patent Applications the entirety of each of which is incorporated herein by reference 

