---

title: Data encryption/decryption using neuro and neuro-mechanical fingerprints
abstract: In accordance with one embodiment, a method for securing data is disclosed. The method includes sensing multi-dimensional motion of a body part of a user to generate a multi-dimensional signal; in response to the multi-dimensional signal and user calibration parameters, generating a neuro-mechanical fingerprint; and encrypting data with an encryption algorithm using the neuro-mechanical fingerprint as a key.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09577992&OS=09577992&RS=09577992
owner: Aerendir Mobile Inc.
number: 09577992
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160202
---
This United States U.S. patent application claims the benefit of U.S. Patent Application No. 62 112 153 entitled LOCAL USER AUTHENTICATION WITH NEURO MECHANICAL FINGERPRINTS filed on Feb. 4 2015 by inventors Martin Zizi et al.

Wide area network connections over the Internet have interconnected many electronic devices such as computers and mobile smart phones to remote servers and remote storage devices so that cloud computer services can be provided. More electronic devices are poised to be interconnected over the Internet as wireless radio transmitter receivers are added to them.

Access by a user to some electronic devices and databases is often by a login name and password. As more portable electronic devices are used such as laptop computers and mobile smart phones in a highly mobile computing environment correct authentication of people and devices becomes important to ascertain authorized use and lower risks linked to data misrouting. For example as more mobile health electronic devices are introduced privacy of the captured health data by the mobile health devices becomes important. As more banking and payments are made using mobile electronic devices authorized use becomes important.

Authentication of a user using a local electronic device is often performed by a remote server. Software applications executed by the local electronic device often save the login name and password of the user to make an electronic device and its software applications easier to use. Protecting the local access of the user s electronic device has become more important in protecting the user and his her login name and password when an electronic device is lost or stolen. With electronic devices now being used to make payments like credit card transactions protection of local access to a user s electronic device has become even more important.

Referring now to various known behavioral and anatomical identification methods are illustrated. Behavioral identification methods are linked to what the user does or his her habits. Known anatomical identification methods are linked to physical features of the user such as fingerprints iris eye scans veins facial scans and DNA.

Biometrics are being used to better authenticate a user to provide greater protection of mobile electronic devices. Biometrics have been pursued with anatomical based approaches i.e. physical features such as fingerprints iris eye scans veins facial scans DNA etc. and habit behavioral approaches typing or keystrokes handwriting signatures voice or vocal inflections . For example an anatomical aspect of the user such as a fingerprint is used to locally authenticate a user and restrict access to the electronic device. As another example hand morphology or the position of the veins can be used with an image analysis to locally authenticate a user and restrict access to the electronic device.

Behavioral aspects of a user may also be used to better authenticate a user to provide greater protection of mobile electronic devices. The behavioral aspect involves a personal profile of a user s unique habits tastes and behavior. For example the way a user signs his her signature is a unique behavioral aspect that can be used to verify a user s identity.

However neither known anatomical nor known behavioral aspects of user identification are foolproof. For example known user data used for comparison can be stolen from a server and used without the user s knowledge. Additional hardware is often required to capture biometrics from the user that leads to increased costs. With known added hardware risks may be increased where a user may be forced by another to unwillingly capture biometric data. Behavioral aspects may be somewhat intrusive and raise privacy issues. Sensing for behavioral aspects is often performed with software that requires a system to remain powered on consuming energy that is often stored in rechargeable batteries. Moreover biometrics using behavioral aspects often require the added expense of maintaining remote centralized databases.

Using biometrics with known anatomical and or known behavior aspects of a user for identification have some disadvantages.

There is a need for a user authentication solution that is easy to use de centralized so it can be used locally is substantially fail safe from predators consumes low power for battery applications and respects a user s privacy by protecting a user s data so that it is readily adoptable.

The user authentication solution disclosed herein provides fail safe authentications in a decentralized mobile environment while protecting a user s privacy and data. The user authentication solution disclosed herein employs a different form of biometric that is tamper resistant.

The user authentication solution disclosed herein can employ 3 D sensors and signal processing to capture signals micro motion signals that represent neuro muscular micro functions of a user that are translated into well defined micro motions. Signal processing algorithms and feature extraction are then used to capture unique signal features in the micro motion signals. These unique signal features associated with the neuro muscular micro motions of a user can be used to uniquely identify a user somewhat similar to a fingerprint. Accordingly these unique signal features associated with the neuro muscular micro motions of a user are referred to herein as neuro mechanical fingerprints NFPs . The neuro mechanical fingerprints can be used for local user authentication at a mobile electronic device such as a laptop computer or smartphone or at other types of electronic devices. Using the NFP of a user captured by sensors and extracted by algorithms avoids profiling and storing a user s habits or patterned behavior.

The embodiments of the user authentication solution employing sensors and signal processing algorithms to generate and regenerate neuro mechanical fingerprints NFPs of an authorized user are disclosed by the attached figures and the detailed description herein.

In the following detailed description of the embodiments numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding. However it will be obvious to one skilled in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the embodiments.

The embodiments include methods apparatus and systems for forming and utilizing neuro mechanical fingerprints NFPs to identify and authenticate a user.

Certain user motions are habitual or part of a user s motion repertoire. A user signing a document for example is a contextual motion that a user develops with behavioral habits. The motions usually analyzed of a signed signature are the macro motions or large scale motions that a user makes with a writing instrument. For example from the large motions of a signed signature one may determine with ones eyes whether the writer was left handed or right handed for example.

While these large motions may be useful there are also micro motions very small motions that a user makes when signing making other motions or simply at rest making no motion. These micro motions are neuro derived or neuro based and invisible to the eyes. These micro motions of a user are due to the unique neuromuscular anatomy of each human being and may be also referred to herein as neuro derived micro motions. These micro motions are also linked to the motor control processes from the motor cortex of an individual down to his her hands. With one or more sensors signal processing algorithms and or filters electronic signals motion signals and micro motions signals can be captured that include the neuro derived micro motions of a user. Of specific interest are micro motion electronic signals that represent the micro motions of the user within the motion signals.

Micro motions of a user are linked to the cortical and subcortical control of the motor activities in the brain or elsewhere in the nervous system of a human body. Like a mechanical filter the specific musculoskeletal anatomy of an individual can affect the micro motions of a user and contribute to the motion signals that include the micro motions of a user. The motion signals captured from a user can also reflect part of the proprioceptive control loops that include the brain and proprioceptors that are present in a user s human body.

When motion signals are analyzed appropriately for micro motion signals representing micro motions of users the resulting data can yield unique and stable physiological identifiers more specifically neurological identifiers that can be used as unwritten signatures. These unique identifiers are a user s neuro mechanical fingerprints. Neuro mechanical fingerprints may also be referred to herein as NeuroFingerPrints NFPs .

The motions of a user including a user s macro motions and a user s micro motions can be captured by various electronic sensors. For example an electronic touch sensor or an electronic accelerometer may be used to capture the macro and micro motions of a user. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 823 107 filed by Geoff Klein on Jan. 5 2012 incorporated herein by reference describes how an accelerometer may be used to unobtrusively capture motion data of a user over time when operating an electronic device and generate a motion repertoire that can be used to recognize a user. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 823 107 makes use of repertoires or motion habits. The embodiments disclosed herein do not build nor rely on motion repertoires. The embodiments disclosed herein extract signals linked to quality control mechanisms of the nervous system. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 823 107 ignores those user s neuro derived micro motions that are of interest to the embodiments disclosed herein. Moreover in the generation of neuro mechanical fingerprints the macro motion signals are suppressed or filtered out to capture the micro motions signal component. When using a three dimensional accelerometer to capture a user s micro motions the macro motions signal needs filtering out from the micro motion signal data. The vector due to the force of gravity is also ignored in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 823 107. When using a three dimensional accelerometer the force of gravity is compensated for or filtered out in the generation of the micro motions signal.

Referring now to examples of three dimensional Poincare phase plot diagrams for four different users are shown. Each three dimensional Poincare phase plot diagram shows a pattern A D of gravity corrected three dimensional accelerometry data.

The raw accelerometry data was obtained over the same period of time with users doing macro motions with their hands using the same electronic device. The electronic device has three dimensional accelerometer sensors to capture raw accelerometry data in the three dimensions of X Y and Z.

Signal processing is performed on the raw accelerometry data to filter or suppress unwanted signals correct for gravity and extract the signals micro motion signals that represent the neuro derived micro motions of a user s hand or finger. The three dimensions of micro motion signals x t y t z t over the sample period of time for a user can be further processed into phase t y t z t and plotted in a three dimensional Poincare phase plot diagram. If the sample period of time is short the motion signals x t y t z t sensed from a sample of the neuro muscular micro motions of the user may be stored into a storage device in digital form to represent a neuro mechanical fingerprint NFP . The digital form of the micro motions signals may be encrypted with an encryption algorithm and an encryption key prior to storage in order to protect it from unauthorized access by unauthorized persons.

As can be readily seen in the patterns A D in each of the Poincare phase plot diagrams generated from the neuro derived motion of the users are substantially different. For example a center of mass A D of each pattern A D differs. Other characteristics of each pattern A D also differ for each user. Thus the pattern of neuro derived motion is unique to each user and can be used to uniquely identify a user.

The unique patterns A D in the generated Poincare phase plots and the NFP are normally stable. Thus normally they can be repeatedly sensed over sample periods of time each time a user touches or moves the sensor and then compared with an initial calibrated NFP using an algorithm to authenticate the identity of a user. However if there is a neuromuscular disease that is progressing the unique pattern A D for a user is less stable. If this is the case the neurological algorithm can be periodically recalibrated to compensate for disease progression. For example an elderly person with a neuromuscular disease can easily recalibrate the neurological algorithm on a weekly basis depending on a drift cutoff relative to an initial calibration for the NFP. As another example a user who is being treated with motion altering medications can also recalibrate the NFP neurological algorithm on a periodic basis. For most users recalibration of the NFP neurological algorithm after an initial calibration will be infrequent.

The analysis of motion signals for micro motions employs a neurological algorithm to obtain a neuro mechanical fingerprint NFP of a user. Accordingly this neurological algorithm may be referred to herein as an NFP neurological algorithm.

A NFP neurological algorithm is not an algorithm that uses neural network training classifiers or deep learning. The NFP neurological algorithm is an algorithm that specifically collects isolates and analyzes signals from the human nervous system and its interactions with parts of the body connected to the nervous system such as the muscular system gland cells and or the skin. Activities of interest to analyze signals for micro motions include the motor control stemming out of our nervous system the sensorial inputs and stress responses that are uniquely linked to the anatomy and nervous system of each person.

Consider for example a user who moves his or her hand. A kinematic algorithm may record the physical motion over time and analyze it for its velocity distance direction and force for example. A neurological algorithm collects isolates and analyzes the neural activities over time linked to the motion of the hand from an electronic signal such as a motion signal including micro motion signals without performing a brain scan with a brain scanner.

While kinematic motions of body parts can be analyzed for micro motions using an electronic accelerometer for example an electronic touch sensor such as a touch pad can be used to analyze the touch of one or more fingers to the touch sensor. The touch sensor can be used to generate a micro motion signal representing the micro motions over time at a finger touching the touch sensor. A touch sensor can generate three dimensional signals representing the X and Y position of a finger against the touch sensor and a Z position representing the pressure applied to the touch sensor. Micro motions may be included as part of each of the three dimensional position signals. With a touch sensor gravity is typically not a factor that needs correction.

By focusing on micro motion signals and not macro motion signals a touch sensor may be used with a neurological algorithm to better emulate a human cognitive interface in a machine. This can improve man machine interfaces. For example consider a human cognitive interface between a husband and wife or closely knit persons. When a husband touches his wife on the arm the wife can often times recognize that it is her husband touching her just from the feel of that touch because she is familiar with his touch. If the touch feels unique a human can often recognize what it is that is touching him her just from that unique feel.

The technique of using of a touch sensor to sense and capture micro motions and a neurological algorithm to analyze an NFP may be referred to herein as touch recognition. A system that includes touch recognition to authenticate and or identify a user may be referred to herein as a touch recognition system. With respect to touch recognition using NeuroFingerPrints is a physiological user identifier. Touch recognition is not an anatomical user identifier. Touch recognition is not a behavioral user identifier. Contrary to anatomical identification methods which are fixed attributes of a user physiological identification methods are linked to the functional body of a user. Behavioral identification methods are linked to what the user does or his her habits.

Using a touch sensor and a neurological algorithm has intrinsic advantages in user authentication. The user interface for user authentication can be intuitive and linked to the spontaneous behavior of the human user with only minimal training if any training is needed at all. The user experience of the user authentication process can be frictionless. The user need not perform any specific user authentication task over and above those ordinarily associated with the use of the user s electronic device. For example after calibration a user may only need to hold his her smart phone such as to make a telephone call so that an accelerometer and a neurological algorithm perform the user authentication process.

NeuroFingerPrints can be captured non intrusively by a touch sensor and the NFP neurological algorithm. NeuroFingerPrints can be isolated from other user motions. Accordingly one or more touch sensors used to capture keystrokes or key depressions may also be used to capture micro motions of a user and generate micro motion signals and the NeuroFingerPrints in response thereto. With little to no change in the user interface one or more touch sensors associated with a keypad or button can be used to capture micro motions and generate micro motion signals as a user presses the keypad or button.

Without any change in user experience a NeuroFingerPrint NFP can be generated by the NFP neurological algorithm while a user s personal identification number PIN is entered for example. Alternatively a NeuroFingerPrint NFP can be generated by the NFP neurological algorithm while a power button or a function button e.g. home button is pressed for example. In this case the NeuroFingerPrint NFP can be used for user authentication without a PIN number. Alternatively with little to no user interface change a NeuroFingerPrint NFP can be used conjunctively with a PIN number for user authentication.

With little to no change in a user interface the one or more touch sensors associated with a keypad or a button can also be used to capture micro motions and generate micro motion signals as a user presses or selects the keys of the keypad or the button. The keypad or button that supports NFP capture may be used to control entrances and or exits to offices buildings or other real property such as homes businesses government offices or other secured facilities.

Moreover touch sensors combined with the neurological algorithm can advantageously be built into a physical electronic key which could then be used wirelessly to open a door start a car engine or gain access to a server or other information technology system.

Reference is now made to . illustrates remote authentication of a user. illustrates local authentication of a user.

Touch recognition facilitates local authentication of a user at a local electronic device such as shown in . NFP user authentication does not require the use of a large remote database. An NFP user authentication system can be self contained within the local electronic device such as a mobile smartphone. Data for user authentication needn t be stored in and accessed from a storage device of a storage area network the cloud over the Internet as may be required for remote authentication. A login ID and password for user authentication need not be sent over the Internet to a server to authentic a user as may be required for remote authentication. Touch recognition is decentralized and can be self contained within the local electronic device.

With remote authentication of a user such as shown in a user is open to the Internet and may be subject to risks associated with it. With local authentication such as shown in the user may be closed off from the Internet such as shown in during user authentication to provide added security. A token representing local user authentication may be generated instead by the local electronic device and sent wired and or wirelessly out from the local electronic device to a local server or remotely over the internet cloud of routers switches and communication systems to a remote server such as shown in .

While touch recognition facilitates local authentication touch recognition may be readily combined with a remote authentication technique or another local authentication technique to provide additional levels of security.

Referring now to a user authentication system may employ multiple factors to authenticate a user. Multi factor authentication combines two or more authentication techniques. Previously multi factor authentication was not user friendly so it was avoided. User friendly authentication methods were often preferred instead but led to compromised protection.

As mentioned herein touch recognition or recognition using an accelerometer may be combined with a remote authentication technique or another local authentication technique so that multi factor authentication is more user friendly.

Touch recognition may be combined with a password a personal identification number a pattern or something else a user knows or remembers. Alternatively touch recognition may be combined with a token a smart card a mobile token an OTP token or some other user authentication device a user has. Alternatively touch recognition may be combined with an anatomical or behavioral user biometric. For example neurological based touch recognition may be readily combined with finger print recognition to provide a user friendly multi factor authentication system.

The banking industry is particularly interested in avoiding an extra burden on the user when user authentication is required. Moreover the banking industry is interested in high performance user authentication systems that provide reliable user authentication and are difficult to circumvent. Neurological based touch recognition can be readily combined with other authentication techniques with minimal burden on the user. Moreover the neurological based touch recognition that is disclosed herein can be substantially reliable and very difficult to circumvent.

Referring now to a chart of a comparison matrix of various biometric identification technologies is illustrated. A relative ranking is used to compare user authentication with NFPs to other biometric user identification techniques. The relative ranking is based on seven rated criteria. Each criterion can be rated high H medium M or low L for each biometric identification technique. From left to right the seven rated criteria are permanence collectability performance acceptability circumvention uniqueness and universality. The use of NFPs ranked highest over the other biometric identification techniques for the following reasons.

NFP is a highly ranked universal technology. Each and every human being that would be a user has a unique nervous system from which NFPs can be captured.

NFP is highly unique user authentication technology differentiating between users. The NFP reflects a user s motor control of the user s body. Motor control is linked to the brain activity controlling the muscular tone in the hands. Even twins will have different motor control because the will undergo different life s experiences and have different motor skill training. For example twins will learn to ride a bicycle differently learning different motor control over muscles that will be reflected in differing NFPs.

NFP is a relatively highly permanent or stable technology because it is linked to each person s anatomy. Evolutive processes such as a neurological disease that can affect the stability of NFPs are rare. Even in those rare cases the neurological evolution process is usually sufficiently slow such that an NFP user authentication system can be recalibrated. The NFPs for touch recognition differs for a user s left hand and a user s right hand. However they are each user specific NFPs. A user can be consistent in what hand finger that he she uses to hold touch an accelerometer enabled device touch sensor enabled device. Alternatively multiple NFPs for the same user can be calibrated with the NFP user authentication system. In this case the touch of either hand or multiple fingers may authenticate a user of an electronic device.

Some neurotropic medications can alter the scanned NFP. However the NFP user authentication system can be re calibrated to compensate.

Alcohol can temporarily alter a scanned NFP so that it does not match a calibrated NFP. This could be advantageously used to prohibit driving a car or other vehicle under the influence of alcohol. For example the NFP touch technology could be implemented within a car key or a car s start button. If the scanned NFP is unaffected by alcohol the NFP touch technology allows key or start button to start up the engine to drive the car. If the scanned NFP is affected by a user drinking alcohol the NFP touch technology can prohibit the key or start button from starting the engine of the car.

NFPs are relative easy to collect or capture because accelerometers have become common in mobile devices. Accelerometer values are frequently sampled with a clock at or around a microsecond to capture micro motions of a user. Moreover accelerometers are relatively sensitive. Accelerometers often can sense submicro levels of accelerations such that they are capable of capturing micro motions of a user s hand for example. Various three dimensional accelerometers may be used to capture micro motions of a user s hand. Various touch sensors may be used to capture micro motions and the type whether capacitive or resistive is not relevant.

The performance of NFP authentication with NFPs is high. Using non optimal math algorithms as the neurological algorithms can achieve recognition success rates between 93 percent and 97 percent. More appropriate and accurate mathematic algorithms that consider variables of time and trajectory can achieve higher recognition success rates to reach 100 percent recognition of a proper user. An alternate user authentication system such as a PIN may be used in parallel with NFP authentication in case the NFP authentication system fails to recognize a proper user. In comparison most biometrics except for real fingerprints or iris scan have low performance with higher failure rates that can range between 18 20 providing between 80 and 82 successful recognition rates.

NFP technology should have a high level of acceptability because it is a user friendly authentication method. An NFP user authentication system can be fairly transparent or friction less. However acceptability is also subject to how the NFP user authentication system is designed and marketed along with how it is supported by appropriate safety measures and independent auditing.

NFPs are difficult to circumvent so they have a high rating for the circumvention factor. Hacking spoofing or reverse engineering to gain access can be made nearly impossible when the NFP authentication system resides in the electronic device and is unavailable to the Internet.

A calibration NFP file user calibration parameters is initially generated electronically for a user locally by the NFP user authentication system. The calibration NFP file is typically encrypted and saved locally on the electronic device e.g. in memory associated with the NFP authentication controller and is thereof unavailable to the Internet. However when stored elsewhere such as a storage device in a storage area network or a storage device associated with an authentication server the calibration NFP file should be encrypted to provide greater security.

NFP user authentication does not simply perform a file comparison to grant access. The NFP has to be regenerated from the user s body in real time to gain access. This avoids a hacker from using a stolen file to gain access and authorization to the electronic device by using a surrogate misleading input or a spoofing or a phishing event for information. To circumvent NFP user authentication at the service level the hacker would have to concurrently make the data acquisition in parallel to the authorized user while the user is accessing a service that requires authentication or login. To circumvent NFP user authentication at the device level a hacker would have to emulate the neurological control of the authorized user to obtain the NFP data and then enter into it into the device to gain access. A hacker could steal the calibrated NFP value from the authorized user s device but then the hacker would have to impossibly regenerate the user s micro motion input into a second electronic device with the same calibrated NFP authentication system. Accordingly an electronic device with an NFP authentication system can be extremely difficult to circumvent. A mobile electronic device with an NFP authentication system can ultimately be trusted as a user s gatekeeper providing real time validated identification.

Only when a user utilizes the electronic devices is a scanned NFP subsequently generated in real time with the calibrated NFP only adjusting the calculations. Without the proper user that generated the calibrated NFP file the NFP authentication system denies local access to the electronic device. If the proper user is not alive the NFP authentication system will deny access because the micro motion signals of the proper user cannot be generated. Accordingly circumvention of the NFP authentication technology is difficult. By comparison classical fingerprints have a high difficulty level of circumvention however even classical fingerprints can be stolen and reverse engineered to login into a fingerprint authentication system.

Overall NFP technology as the biometric for a user authentication system is ranked highly when compared to other biometric technologies.

Mobile electronic devices are being used with health and fitness applications. In some cases they may be used as the user interface to connected medical devices. Rules and laws in a number of countries regulate privacy of a user s medical condition. Accordingly protection of a user s medical condition and medical data has become increasingly important.

An NFP authentication system can be used to help protect a user s data that may be stored or input into an electronic device. An NFP authentication system can be used to help comply with the laws and regulations of medical data that are in effect in a number of countries.

The NFP data that is generated from micro motions as a result of a user s neurosystem may be considered a form of medical data. The NFP authentication system can be implemented to effectively protect the calibrated NFP data that is stored in an electronic device or elsewhere when used for the purpose of authentication.

The NFP is generated in response to micro motions that are related to a type or form of tremor. A tremor is an unintentional rhythmic muscle movement that causes an oscillation in one or more parts of a human body. Tremors may be visible or invisible to the unaided eye. Visible tremors are more common in middle aged and older persons. Visible tremors are sometimes considered to be a disorder in a part of the brain that controls one or more muscles throughout the body or in particular areas such as the hands and or fingers.

Most tremors occur in the hands. Thus a tremor with micro motions can be sensed when holding a device with an accelerometer or through a finger touching a touch pad sensor.

There are different types of tremors. The most common form or type of tremor occurs in healthy individuals. Much of the time a healthy individual does not notice this type of tremor because the motion is so small and may occur when performing other motions. The micro motions of interest that are related to a type of tremor are so small that they are not visible to the unaided eye.

A tremor may be activated under various conditions resting postural kinetic and can be often classified as a resting tremor an action tremor a postural tremor or a kinetic or intention tremor. A resting tremor is one that occurs when the affected body part is not active but is supported against gravity. An action tremor is one that is due to voluntary muscle activation and includes numerous tremor types including a postural tremor a kinetic or intention tremor and a task specific tremor. A postural tremor is linked to support the body part against gravity like extending an arm away from the body . A kinetic or intention tremor is linked to both goal directed and non goal directed movements. An example of a kinetic tremor is the motion of a moving a finger to one s nose often used for detecting a driver for driving under the influence of alcohol. Another example of a kinetic tremor is the motion of lifting a glass of water from a table. A task specific tremor occurs during very specific motions such as when writing on paper with a pen or pencil.

Tremors whether visible or not to the eyes are thought to originate in some pool of oscillating neurons within the nervous system some brain structures some sensory reflex mechanisms and or some neuro mechanical couplings and resonances.

While numerous tremors have been described as either physiologic without any disease or pathological it is accepted that the amplitudes of tremors is not very useful in their classification. However the frequencies of tremors are of interest. The frequencies of tremors allow them to be used in a useful manner to extract a signal of interest and generate a unique NFP for each user.

Numerous pathological conditions like Parkinson 3 7 Hz cerebellar diseases 3 5 Hz dystonias 4 7 Hz various neuropathies 4 7 Hz contribute motions signals to the lower frequencies such as frequencies at 7 Hertz Hz and below. Because pathological conditions are not common to all users these frequencies of motions signals are not useful for generating NFPs and are desirable to filter out. However some of the embodiments disclosed herein are used to specifically focus on those pathological signals as a way to record monitor follow said pathologies to determine health wellness or degradation.

Other tremors such as physiological essential orthostatic and enhanced physiological tremors can occur under normal health conditions. These tremors are not pathologies per se. Accordingly they are often present in the population as a whole. Physiological tremors as well as others that are common to all users are of interest because they generate micro motions at frequencies over a range between 3 to 30 Hz or 4 to 30 Hz. They may be activated when muscles are used to support body parts against the force of gravity. Accordingly holding an electronic device in one s hand to support the hand and arm against gravity can generate physiological tremors that can be sensed by an accelerometer. Touching a touch pad of an electronic device with the finger of a hand and supporting it against gravity can generate physiological tremors that can be readily sensed by a finger touch pad sensor.

Essential tremors of a kinetic type may occur and be sensed when a user has to enter a PIN or login ID to gain access to a device or a phone. The frequency range of essential tremors is between 4 to 12 Hz that could be reduced to a frequency range of 8 to 12 Hz to avoid sensing for tremors that are due to uncommon pathological conditions.

For the physiological tremor or the enhanced physiological tremor idem with larger amplitudes the coherence of different body sides is low. That is a physiological tremor on the left body side is not very coherent to a physiological tremor on the right body side. Accordingly it is expected that tremors in the left hand or finger will differ from tremors in the right hand or right finger of a user. Accordingly the NFP authentication system will require a user to be consistent in using the same side hand or finger for authentication or alternatively multiple authorized user calibration parameter sets one for each hand or one for each finger that will be used to extract an NFP.

Motions with a higher frequency of interest may be considered to be noise. Accordingly signals with a frequency higher than the maximum in desired range e.g. 12 Hz or 30 Hz in the raw motion signal are desirous to be filtered out. Thus a frequency signal range from 8 Hz to 12 Hz and or 8 Hz to 30 Hz contains useful information regarding micro motions that can be used to generate NFPs.

The raw signal captured by a finger touch pad sensor in an electronic device or by an accelerometer of a hand held electronic device can have a number of unwanted signal frequencies in it. Accordingly a type of filtration having a response to filter out signals outside the desired frequency range can be used to obtain a micro motions signal from the raw electronic signal. Alternatively an isolation extraction means for signals in the desired frequency range may be used to obtain a micro motions signal from the raw electronic signal. For example a finite impulse response band pass filter e.g. pass band of 8 to 30 HZ can be used to select the low signal frequency range of interest in a raw electronic signal sensed by a touch pad or accelerometer. Alternatively a low pass filter e.g. 30 Hz cutoff and a high pass filter e.g. 8 Hz cutoff or a high pass filter e.g. 8 Hz cutoff and a low pass filter e.g. 30 Hz cutoff can be combined in series to achieve a similar result.

Referring now to a functional block diagram of an electronic device with NFP authentication is illustrated. The electronic device may be a smart cellular telephone for example or other hand held type of portable or mobile electronic device for which access control is desirable. The electronic device includes one or more three dimensional 3 D sensors that may be used to capture raw 3 D electronic signals that include raw 3 D micro motion signals that can be used for NFP authentication.

The electronic device may include a processor a storage device SD a power source e.g. rechargeable batteries a button pad a keypad a three dimensional 3 D accelerometer optionally a display device one or more wireless radios and one or more antennae coupled together. If the electronic device does not have a three dimensional 3 D accelerometer one or more of the button pad the keypad and the display device are touch sensitive so they may be used to capture 3 D raw electronic signals that include the 3 D micro motion signals.

The storage device is preferably a non volatile type of storage device that stores data instructions and perhaps other information e.g. user calibration parameters in a non volatile manner so it is not lost when the electronic device goes to sleep to conserver power or is fully powered off. The storage device stores software applications instructions NFP instructions and possibly NFP data e.g. calibration NFP file of authorized user calibration parameters for the NFP authentication system and user scratch pad data for the user. The NFP instructions and NFP data is separate from the user scratch pad data and the software application instructions for security reasons to make it is inaccessible to all users. The storage device is coupled to the processor so that data and instructions can be read by the processor and executed to perform functions of software applications. The NFP instructions and NFP data if any is read by the processor to execute the NFP authentication controller module and perform the functions needed to provide NFP authentication.

The one or more radios are coupled to and between the processor and the one or more antennae . The one or more radios can wirelessly receive and transmit date over wireless networks. The one or more radios may include a Wi Fi radio for local wireless Wi Fi networks a cellular radio for cellular telephone networks and blue tooth radio for Bluetooth wireless connections. Software applications may be executed by the electronic device that require authentication to a remote server. The NFP authentication system is used to grant access to the electronic device itself. However the NFP authentication system may also be used by software applications to verify or authenticate the identity of an authorized user.

To recharge batteries or provide an alternate power source a power connector and or a combined power communication connector e.g. universal serial bus connector may be included as part of the electronic device . The connector may couple to the processor for data communication and to the power source to recharge batteries and or provide an alternate power source for the electronic device . For wired connectively the electronic device may further include network interface controller and connector such as an Ethernet controller and port connector e.g. RJ 45 coupled to the processor.

More portable or mobile electronic devices now include 3 D accelerometers . The 3 D accelerometers have traditionally been used to determine orientation of the electronic device. However the 3 D accelerometer can also be used to capture the micro motions of a user s hand that holds the electronic device . In this case the 3 D accelerometer data is captured by the accelerometer sampled pre processed and then provided to the NFP authentication controller.

If the accelerometer is unavailable in an electronic device either one or both of the button pad and keypad are touch sensitive in three dimensions including X Y and Z to use for NFP authentication. The Z axis is the axis perpendicular to the button and keypad along with pressure may be exerted by a finger to select the underlying function of the button or key of the keypad to control the electronic device. The button pad may be a power button for example to power the electronic device on off for example. The button pad may be a home button for example that brings the electronic device to a home or initial user interface state.

Either or both of a touch sensitive button pad and or a touch sensitive keypad may be used to capture three dimensions of raw micro motion signals that can be used for NFP authentication.

If the display device is a touch sensitive display device the keypad or button may be displayed on the touch sensitive display device from which the three dimensions of raw micro motion signals may be captured.

Portions of an NFP authentication controller see NFP authentication controller A C in may be formed by the processor executing instructions recalled from the firmware software stored in the storage device .

Referring now to a functional block diagram of a portion of an NFP authentication system with a three dimensional touch sensitive button pad is shown. The NFP authentication system further includes an NFP authentication controller A coupled to the touch sensor of the three dimensional touch sensitive button pad .

The three dimensional touch sensitive button pad includes a 3D touch sensor nearest the surface of the pad to sense the position and changes in the X Y finger position and finger pressure Z. The three dimensional touch sensitive button pad typically includes a functional button switch that is used to generate a function control signal that is sent to the processor. The 3D touch sensor generates the raw three dimensional displacement signals that includes the micro motions indicated by the 3D arrow that are sensed at the user s finger .

After some preprocessing the NFP authentication controller A receives the data samples representing the micro motions sensed by the touch sensor and generates the NFP for the user. A calibration NFP file of authorized user calibration parameters is typically stored in a non volatile memory or other non volatile storage device within the NFP authentication controller or a non volatile memory or other non volatile storage device coupled to or coupled in communication with e.g. memory or a storage device of a server the NFP authentication controller. In response to the NFP and stored user calibration parameters that were trained by and associated with the authorized user the NFP authentication controller A classifies the NFP and generates a match percentage value. In response to the match percentage value and a predetermined acceptable match percentage the NFP authentication controller A can generate an access grant signal that grants access to the electronic device for the authorized user that is touching the touch sensor. The NFP authentication controller A may be a functional process that a processor e.g. the processor is configured by hardware software or a combination of hardware and software to perform.

Referring now to a functional block diagram of an NFP authentication system with a three dimensional touch sensitive keypad is shown. The touch sensitive keypad includes a matrix of an M by N array of 3D touch sensors AA MN each of which can sense the position and changes in the X Y finger position and finger pressure Z of a finger and generate the raw micro motions data. Each pad may include a functional button switch to concurrently generate a plurality of functional control signals while the raw micro motions sensor data is being captured by the 3D touch sensors AA MN.

The signals from M by N array of 3D touch sensors AA MN is preprocessed and sampled with the sampled data being coupled to the NFP authentication controller B. The NFP authentication controller B acts similar to the NFP authentication controller A in granting access. However the training of the NFP authentication controller B may be made to support slightly different signals that can be expected from the different touch sensors in the matrix of the M by N array of 3D touch sensors AA MN.

Accordingly the calibration NFP file of authorized user calibration parameters may differ for each different touch sensor. It is expected the calibration NFP file of authorized user calibration parameters may be larger with user calibrations parameters for each of the plurality of touch sensors. With a larger calibration NFP file the non volatile memory or other non volatile storage device that stores the file may be somewhat larger having a slightly larger capacity. Similarly a non volatile memory or other non volatile storage device coupled to or coupled in communication with e.g. memory or a storage device of a server the NFP authentication controller may have a larger storage area and or capacity to accommodate a somewhat larger NFP calibration file from one or more users. The NFP authentication controller B may be a functional process that a processor e.g. the processor is configured by hardware software or a combination of hardware and software to perform.

Referring now to a functional block diagram of an NFP authentication system with a three dimensional accelerometer in an electronic device is shown. A users hand holds the electronic device that includes the three dimensional accelerometer . The three dimensional accelerometer is coupled to the NFP authentication controller C. The NFP authentication controller C may be a functional process that a processor e.g. the processor is configured by hardware software or a combination of hardware and software to perform.

While holding the electronic device steady in his her hand the micro motions indicated by the 3D arrow in the user s hand are sensed by the 3D accelerometer . As the electronic device held in the users hand is moved about to adjust positions such as from a pocket to the user s ear undesirable macro motions are also sensed by the 3D accelerometer in addition to the micro motions. As further explained herein these undesirable macro motions are to be suppressed filtered out or eliminated in the desired signal.

Touch sensors typically differ from a 3D accelerometer. Accordingly the NFP calibration file of authorized user calibration parameters will likely differ. Some calibration data generated as filter parameters of a digital filter to filter out unwanted motions e.g. micro motions in the three dimensional accelerometer signals from the 3D accelerometer may be included as part of the NFP calibration file associated with the user. Accordingly the NFP calibration file of authorized user calibration parameters for a 3D accelerometer can differ from the NFP calibration file of authorized user calibration parameters for a touch sensor. In either case the NFP calibration file of authorized user calibration parameters is typically stored in a non volatile memory or other non volatile storage device within the NFP authentication controller or a non volatile memory or other non volatile storage device coupled to or coupled in communication with e.g. memory or a storage device of a server the NFP authentication controller.

The raw three dimensional accelerometer signals generated by the 3D accelerometer are preprocessed and undergo compensation due to the force of gravity. The raw three dimensional accelerometer signals are sampled into data samples of a dataset so that digital signal processing can be used to digitally filter and perform digital transformations with a digital processor such as processor shown in . The data samples of the accelerometry data are coupled into the NFP authentication controller C.

The NFP authentication controller C receives the data samples representing the micro motions sensed by the accelerometer and generates the NFP for the user. In response to the NFP and stored user calibration parameters that were trained by and associated with the authorized user the NFP authentication controller C classifies the NFP and generates a match percentage value. In response to the match percentage value and a predetermined acceptable match percentage the NFP authentication controller C can generate an access grant signal that grants access to the electronic device for the authorized user that is holding the electronic device.

While three dimensional sensors e.g. 3D touch sensor 3D accelerometer or 3D motion sensor have been described herein to capture a three dimensional micro motions signal as a three dimensional signal to generate an NFP the sensors may be multi dimensional to capture a multi dimensional signal with at least two dimensions. For example a touch sensitive surface may capture a varying impedance having two varying dimensions of resistance and capacitance that could be used to generate a three dimensional representation of an NFP from a varying two dimensional signal.

Referring now momentarily to to obtain an NFP from the sampled micro motion signals captured by a sensor and sampled by a sampler A to D converter a number of signal processing steps are performed by the processor in the electronic device. The signal processing steps performed on each dimension of the sampled micro motion signals are performed by the signal processing and feature extraction module of the NFP authentication system . These one or more signal processing algorithms performed by the module may be generally be referred to herein as the NFP algorithm and method.

Generally a sequence of events are performed to obtain an NFP for a user and then evaluate its authenticity.

Raw data files in the X Y and Z direction over a predetermined sample period are obtained from 3D accelerometers or one or more touch pad sensors as the case may be.

The raw data files are sampled over predetermined time spans e.g. 5 10 20 or 30 seconds with a predetermined sampling frequency to capture signals of interest that is compatible with the further filtering needed e.g. 250 Hz 4 msec between samples 330 Hz 200 Hz or down to 60 Hz twice the 30 Hz frequency of interest .

Signal processing is performed on the sampled signals to generate a micro motions signal with specific frequency components of interest. The sampled signals are filtered using a band pass filter the frequency range between 7 8 Hz 7 12 Hz or 8 30 Hz. This frequency range of micro motions signals is most useful in distinguishing users from one another. The band pass filter can also suppress large amplitude signals due to voluntary or un voluntary movements that may be captured by a sensor such as an accelerometer. If an accelerometer is used as the sensor the influence of the gravitational force is compensated or removed by signal processing. If an accelerometer is used as the sensor the sampled signals are made position invariant or orientation invariant by signal processing. The micro motions signal is a position invariant sampled signal that can be consistently used to extract values of features for comparison between users.

Additional signal processing is performed on the micro motions signal to generate a signal processed waveform signal from which values for an NFP can be extracted. Predetermined features are selected for which values are to extracted to represent the NFP. The values for an NFP may be extracted directly from the signal processed waveform signal from each micro motions signal and or from both after additional signal processing is performed. Regardless unique values are extracted representing a unique NFP for a user that will differ from other NFPs generated by other users.

The user s NFP may be used in a number of different applications. Match result values e.g. percentages are generated using a classifier various data mining techniques can be used as the classifier . The classifier is trained calibrated with an initial NFP a calibration NFP generating authorized user calibration parameters so that a calibration match result level is achieved. Thereafter the classifier may be used in a user mode with the authorized user calibration parameters. The classifier in the user mode generates match results values to authenticate a user as an authorized user or not. An authentication controller in response to a predetermined access match level can determine if a user is an authorized user or not based on the match results value.

Referring now to a hand acceleration waveform of a hand acceleration signal for a single axis X Y or Z is shown over time. A portion of the hand acceleration waveform is magnified as waveform T as shown. While analog signal waveforms may be shown in the drawings it is understood that analog signal waveforms may be sampled over time and represented by a sequence of digital numbers at discrete periodic time stamps a digital waveform . While an accelerometer senses acceleration over time if a sensor senses displacement over time instead it may be converted into acceleration by twice differentiating the displacement signal with time.

The hand acceleration for each axis is sampled over a predetermined sample time period such as 10 20 or 30 seconds time spans for example. The sampling frequency is selected so that it is compatible with the filtering that follows. For example the sampling frequency may be at 250 Hz 4 milliseconds between samples . Alternatively the sampling frequency can be 330 Hz or 200 Hz for example. The sampling may be performed on an analog signal by a sampling analog to digital converter to generate the samples S SN represented by a digital number over the time stamps T TN during the given predetermined sample time period. Assuming a 20 second sample time period and a sampling frequency of 250 Hz a dataset for acceleration would include 3 3 axis times 5000 samples over the time period for a total of 15 k samples.

The generation of the NFP is based on un correlated signals in three dimensions. The 3D accelerometer to sense tremors is part of the electronic device that is held by a user s hand. As shown in the device and the device axes Xd Yd Zd can be held by the user s hand at different orientations with respect to the world W and world axes Xw Yw Zw. Accordingly the raw sensor data from the 3D accelerometer for the device axes Xd Yd Zd is correlated. Thus the raw sensor data from the 3D accelerometer for the device axes Xd Yd Zd is dependent on the orientation of the electronic device . A signal normalization process is performed using principal component analysis PCA to make the 3D accelerometer data for each axis orientation invariant or rotation invariant and thus un correlated.

Each dataset of raw sensor data from the 3D accelerometer for the device axes Xd Yd Zd over a given sample time period is analyzed in the 3D feature space. Three eigenvectors and eigenvalues are determined for each axis. The eigenvalues of each eigenvector are compared to determine the largest eigenvalue that identifies the largest eigenvector. The points of the data sets are then rotated points and their data values are transformed in space so that the largest eigenvector aligns with and along a predetermined axis. The predetermined axis is a constant for all datasets of 3D raw sensor data originating from the same electronic device . The predetermined axis may even be a constant for any device that implements the NSP algorithm with a 3D accelerometer. The predetermined axis may be the Zw world axis for example. Aligning the largest eigenvector of each dataset along the predetermined axis transforms the X Y Z components of 3D points in the raw sensor data so that they are uncorrelated and rotation invariant.

For example illustrates a 3D point A of acceleration with respect to an eigenvector A. The data set that forms the eigenvector including the point A is rotated in 3D space to eigenvector B that aligns with the Zw world axis. The point A and its X Y Z component values are transformed in 3D space to point B and its X Y Z component values as a result.

This NFP algorithm specifically extracts tremors or micro motions from the transformed sensor data signals that are linked with the motor control of the brain cortex its subcortical parts cerebellum central nervous system influenced or not by peripheral structures e.g. muscular skeletal glandular etc. and suppresses unwanted parts of the transformed sensor data signals.

Accordingly it is desirable to generate or extract a micro motions signal from the transformed hand acceleration signal. However the transformed hand acceleration signal may have a number of undesirable signals within it that can suppressed removed or filtered out. For example a hand holding the electronic device is often moved around with large movements such as by moving from ones pocket purse or pocket so that a keypad is accessible and a display screen is visible.

Large swings in acceleration can occur due to such large movements as is shown in . In some cases these large swings in a signal from a user s large motions macro motions are useful as a behavior profile such as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 823 107 filed by Geoff Klein on Jan. 5 2012 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR UNOBTRUSIVE MOBILE DEVICE USER RECOGNITION. However because these large swings have little to do with micro motions associated with a neuromuscular tremor in this case it is desirable to suppress or remove these large swings during signal processing and the generation of a unique NFP for a user.

Unwanted signal components such as attributed to large swings can be suppressed. The large swings may be from vibrations linked to buildings or structures where a user is located or from the motions that the user actually executes while holding the electronic device with the accelerometer sensor.

Most buildings and structures resonate at a frequency between 3 Hz and 6 Hz. Accordingly the vibrations from buildings and structures are outside the desirable range of frequencies e.g. outside the range of 8 Hz to 30 Hz and are unlikely to resonate and contaminate the desirable signals with the range. Signals in the range of 3 Hz and 6 Hz are to be subsequently filtered out.

The large scale motions macro motions of a user include jumping around with the electronic device moving one s arm with the electronic device turning around with the electronic device walking running jogging and other large body movements with the electronic device. The large scale motions macro motions of a user are generally not useful in the generation of NFPs. The NFP algorithm is not based on hands or body attitudes nor is the NFP algorithm based on motions repertoires libraries.

The large scale motions macro motions of a user form large scale signal swings shown in for example. The large scale motions of a user are not likely to be repeated when trying to regenerate an NFP during the authentication process. Large scale motions of a user may unfavorably skew an algorithm or calculation in the generation of an NFP. Accordingly large scale signals from large scale motions are partially suppressed or filtered out from the acquired data by the band pass filtering that is performed for the desired range of frequencies. The large scale signals from the large scale motions are highly correlated over relatively long time periods. The three dimensions of micro motions due to the neurological system are not well correlated. Accordingly subsequent signal processing to de correlate the three dimension of signals will suppress the large scale signals from the large scale motions.

Alternate ways of suppressing filtering the large scale signals due to the large scale motions of a user out from the desired signal may also be used. The electronic signals may be analyzed and then classified identified as small signals and large signals which are separated out from the small signal amplitude of the micro motions. The analysis may be of the form described in Time Series Classification Using Gaussian Mixture Models of Reconstructed Phase Spaces by Richard J. Povinelli et al. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering Vol. 16 No. 6 June 2004. Alternatively a separation of the large signals due to voluntary motion may be made by using a BMFLC Kalman filter as is described in Estimation of Physiological Tremor from Accelerometers for Real Time Applications by Kalyana C. Veluvolu et al. Sensors 2011 vol. 11 pages 3020 3036 attached hereto in the appendix.

The magnified hand acceleration waveform T is more representative of an acceleration signal that includes tremors from which a micro motion micro acceleration signal of interest may be generated. The waveform T has a number of frequency components that are outside the frequency range of interest. For example the frequency range of interest in the signal is from 8 Hz to 12 Hz and or from 8 Hz to 30 Hz. These frequency ranges are associated with known tremors that more human beings should commonly have.

Referring now to a band pass filter BPF is shown having a filter response with a lower cutoff LC frequency and an upper cutoff UC frequency at the ends of the desired frequency range. The BPF is in the form of a digital finite impulse response FIR band pass filter to filter a digital signal. This BPF will filter out undesirable frequency signal components from the raw electronic signal captured by the sensor to generate a micro motion acceleration signal of interest in the desired frequency range. Three BPFs may be used in parallel one for each axis signal. Alternatively one BPF may be time shared between each axis.

Referring now to a digital high pass filter HPF with the LC frequency and a digital low pass filter LPF with the UC frequency can be combined in series to achieve a similar result to the digital FIR band pass filter in the generation of the micro motion acceleration signal of interest. Alternatively a low pass filter with the UC frequency and a high pass filter with the LC frequency can be combined in series to achieve a similar resultant signal output.

Additional signal processing are to be performed with the processor on the micro motions signal to generate the NFP.

It is desirable to remove the influence of the force of gravity on the three dimensional accelerometry data captured by the accelerometer. This is so the NFP that is generated is substantially independent of device orientation. A dedicated three dimensional touch pad sensor may not be influenced by the force of gravity. In which case these steps need not be followed for three dimensional data that is captured by a touch pad sensor when a user finger is touched against it.

The acceleration of gravity is a constant. Accordingly the influence of the gravitation force is on the frequency spectrum is expected to be a fixed vector near zero frequency. The gravitation force acts as a zero frequency DC component so one would expect it would effectuate a leakage towards low frequencies in the signals below 1 Hz .

Referring now to a high pass filter at a cutoff frequency below 1 Hz e.g. 0.25 Hz may be used to compensate for the force of gravity and improve the accuracy of the recognition with an NFP. A micro motion signal with the effects of gravity are coupled into the gravity high pass filter HPF having a high pass filter response with a cutoff CO frequency less than 1 Hz but greater than zero Hz. The signal output from the gravity HPF is the micro motions signal without the effects of gravity.

Referring now to another way to eliminate the influence of the gravitation force is by transforming the coordinates of the 3D acceleration data points ADP ADPN each data set. The XYZ coordinates for the center of gravity CG in the sampled datasets of 3D acceleration points X Y Z signals over the predetermined sample period is first determined. Then the coordinates of the 3D acceleration points in the given dataset undergo a translation transform so that the center of gravity is at the X 0 Y 0 Z 0 coordinate or origin point of axes. The whole dataset undergoes a translation transform in this case.

Yet another way to get rid of the influence of the gravitation force in the acceleration signals would be to analytically correct a gravitation force vector for the phase shift that it induces in the 3D accelerometry data. The gravitation force vector can be determined from the raw 3D acceleration signals. Then the 3D accelerometry data can be dampened in one direction in response to the gravitation force vector and strengthened in the opposite direction of the gravitation force vector.

After the filtering and suppression to remove unwanted signal and transformation to compensate for gravity or correlation the desired micro motions signal is formed.

Referring now to a waveform diagram shows three axes of raw acceleration waveform data that are offset from each other due to gravitation forces and differences in orientation. illustrates acceleration waveform data for three axes after suppression removal filtering of unwanted signals from the captured acceleration sensor data. The acceleration waveform data in is representative of the micro motions signal waveforms. If a 3D touch sensitive sensor is used instead of a 3 D accelerometer a displacement waveform in three axes may be the resultant signal. While show a sample of four seconds sample periods of more or less time may be used.

There are three axis for the micro motions signal corresponding to the three axis of acceleration sensed by the 3D accelerometer or the three axis of displacement sensed by the 3D touch pad sensor. The three axis of the micro motions signal define points in three dimensions x t y t z t that can be plotted. The three dimensions of micro motion signals x t y t z t over the sample period of time for a user can be further processed into phase t y t z t and plotted in a three dimensional Poincare phase plot diagram such as shown in .

The three dimensional Poincare phase plot diagrams for the different users show that the micro motion signals have unique patterns that can be used to identify and authenticate a user. A unique pattern for each user can be obtained from the Poincare phase plot diagram. Another unique pattern for each user could be obtained from the time series of the micro motions themselves without any phase information. However it is easier to use a signal processor and digital signal processing algorithms to extract a unique pattern from the signal itself.

Referring now to a block diagram of an NFP authentication controller is shown. The NFP authentication controller includes a signal processing and feature extractor module may be split into two separate modules an NFP authentication classifier module and an authorization controller module . The NFP authentication controller may further include an optional secondary authentication module for multifactor authentication such as by a keypad. One or more of the modules may be implemented by software firmware instructions executed by a processor hardwired electronic circuits or a combination of each.

The NFP authentication controller may further include a non volatile storage device coupled to the classifier and the authorization controller to store data such as user calibration parameters access match AM level A mandatory recalibration MR level B voluntary recalibration VR level C collectively referred to as match percentage levels and an authentication enable bit EN . Alternatively the non volatile storage device may be external to the NFP authentication controller but remain internal to the electronic device as a secured independent non volatile storage device or a secured part of a larger non volatile storage device.

The NFP authentication controller receives the three dimensions of the micro motions data samples in each data set for each sample period. The micro motions data samples are coupled into the signal processing and feature extractor module . The signal processing and feature extractor module performs signal processing and signal analysis on the micro motions data samples to extract a plurality of extracted features X Y Z for each of respective the three dimensions X Y Z . The extracted features X Y Z collectively represent the NeuroFingerPrint NFP that is coupled into the NFP authentication classifier module .

The NFP authentication classifier module receives the NFP the extracted features from the micro motions data samples and generates a match percentage MP signal output . In a user mode the match percentage signal is coupled into the authentication controller . In a calibration or training mode the match percentage signal is used by a processor in the electronic device to evaluate the match percentage signal in response to selections for the initial user calibration parameters . It is expected that training calibration of the NFP authentication classifier module and the generation of the initial user calibration parameters last between 5 and 10 seconds. It is expected that in the user mode that it take less than 5 seconds to sense motion in a body part of a user and determine that access be granted or denied.

In the calibration or training mode an authorized user may generate one or more sets of user calibration parameters so that the NFP authentication system operates under different conditions. For example a user may want to hold the electronic device in either hand and have access granted. The tremors will be different between left and right hands or between different fingers. The user may want to calibrate the NFP authentication system to both left and right hands or to a plurality of fingers. Moreover in some cases more than one user will be using an electronic device. In which case multiple individuals may be authorized users and multiple calibrations will need be made and stored. Thus the storage device may store a plurality of sets of user calibration parameters for the same authorized user or different authorized users.

The authentication enable bit EN is coupled into the authentication controller . The authentication enable bit EN may be used to enable the authentication controller subsequent to the initial calibration or training mode. After initial calibration or training mode the authentication enable bit EN is set and the authentication controller is enabled. The authentication enable bit EN is not reset in the user mode or a recalibration mode after the initial calibration or training mode. Unless the entire electronic device is erased along with the enable bit the authentication controller is enabled by the enable bit for enhanced security.

In the user mode the match percentage signal is used by the authentication controller to evaluate whether or not to grant access into the electronic device and its software applications. The match percentage signal is evaluated against the access match level A to generate the access granted AG signal . If the match percentage signal is greater than or equal to the access match level A the access granted AG signal is generated at a logic level to signal access is granted. If the match percentage signal is less than the access match level A the access granted AG signal is not generated and access is not granted. The access granted AG signal is coupled to the processor in order to enable the authorized user to control and operate the functions of the electronic device.

If the optional secondary authentication module is used a secondary match SM signal is coupled into the authentication controller . In this case the authentication controller further evaluates the secondary match signal on whether or not to generate the access granted AG signal . The authentication controller may use AND logic to require two conditions be met before the access granted signal is generated. Alternatively the authentication controller may use OR logic to require two conditions be met before the access granted signal is generated.

In response to an inactive reactivate signal from the processor the authentication controller maintains the access granted signal in an active state for so long as the user uses the electronic device and avoids a sleep state or a time out to enter a protected state. If the sleep state or time out occurs the reactivate signal is pulsed by the processor. In response to the pulsed reactivate signal the authorization controller inactivates the access granted signal so that a user must re authenticate himself herself with the NFP authentication system of the electronic device to gain access.

Referring now to a graph of match percentage levels MP is shown in comparison with the match percentage signal along the X axis. The Y axis indicates the generation of the access granted AG signal by the authentication controller and whether or access is to be granted to an alleged user.

In the user mode the match percentage signal is used by the authentication controller to evaluate whether or not to grant access into the electronic device and its software applications. The match percentage signal is evaluated against the access match level A. If the match percentage signal is at or above the access match level A the access granted AG signal is generated by the authentication controller . If the match percentage signal is below the access match level A the access granted AG signal is not generated by the authentication controller .

Referring now to the authentication controller may also generate one or more recalibration signals to inform the user to recalibrate the NFP authentication system by regenerating the user calibration parameters for the authorized user before the NFP authentication classifier fails to generate a level of the match percentage signal at or above the access match level A.

In the training or calibration mode the NFP authentication classifier is trained calibrated by initial user calibration parameters so that the NFP authentication classifier generates a level of the match percentage signal at a calibration level that may be at or near 100 such as 98 . After training in the user mode the NFP generated by a user over time can shift as his her body ages disease or other reason that affects the physiological condition of the body. Accordingly the match percentage signal may decrease from the calibration level as time passes. Periodic recalibration is used to reset the user calibration parameters so that the match percentage signal is brought back to the calibration level . Periodic recalibration may be required more or less often of a user depending upon the user s age health and other physiological conditions of the body.

In the user mode the NFP authentication classifier is used by the authentication controller to evaluate whether or not recalibration is needed. The determination of recalibration is responsive to the mandatory recalibration MR level B and the voluntary recalibration VR level C. The mandatory recalibration MR level B is less than both the voluntary recalibration VR level C and the calibration level . The voluntary recalibration VR level C is less than the calibration level .

Recalibration requires that the user first be verified as an authorized user access must be first granted to the electronic device to enter the user mode and recalibrate. If the device is stolen by an unauthorized user the unauthorized user will not be granted access to recalibrate the device.

If the match percentage signal falls below the voluntary recalibration VR level C a voluntary recalibration signal is generated by the authentication controller . In this case the electronic device informs the user through its user interface that he she should pause and take a moment to voluntarily recalibrate the NFP authentication system by regenerating the user calibration parameters . It is expected that most users would voluntarily choose to recalibrate the NFP authentication system. However there will be some authorized users who will choose to wait forget the warning or ignore it entirely.

For those authorized users that do not voluntarily recalibrate the NFP authentication system they may be forced to undergo a mandatory recalibration process. If the match percentage signal further decreases and falls below the mandatory recalibration MR level B a mandatory recalibration signal is generated by the authentication controller . In this case after the authorized user is verified by the NFP authentication classifier and granted access by the authentication controller the electronic device immediately goes into a recalibration mode informs the user through its user interface to prepare and perform the recalibration procedures by continuing to hold the device appropriately or touch a button appropriately. The user is further informed that the NFP authentication system is performing recalibration and to wait until the recalibration is completed and the NFP authentication system has been successfully recalibrated with the regeneration of the user calibration parameters to generate the match percentage signal at or above the calibration level .

If the electronic device is not used for some time it is possible that the match percentage signal further decreases and falls below the access match AM level C. In which case the authorized user may be denied access. Accordingly selection of the value for the access match AM level C is important so that the authorized users are not readily denied access to the electronic device while unauthorized users are denied access. It is desirable to make the generation of the NFP signal generated by the module and coupled into the NFP authentication classifier less sensitive to variances of a user e.g. time aging disease so that the recalibration is less frequent. Accordingly it is desirable to select signal processing and feature extraction algorithms of the module so that the sensitivity in the generation of the NFP is low and it is less likely to change over time.

Example settings of the match percentage levels MP in increasing order is 85 for the access match AM level A 90 for the mandatory recalibration MR level B and 95 for the voluntary recalibration VR level C. Thus a user is informed by the user interface of the electronic device to perform a voluntary recalibration before being required to perform a mandatory recalibration.

With the mandatory recalibration being required of the user it should avoid the NFP authentication system from denying access to the electronic device if it is being actively used. If the electronic device sits for some time e.g. one or more years a user may be required to wipe the electronic device clean re initialize the NFP authentication system and reload applications and or data such as from a backup.

Referring now to a model for an NFP authentication classifier is shown. The model is a regression analysis model that may be linear in accordance with one embodiment. In alternate embodiment the regression analysis model for the NFP authentication classifier may be non linear. During a training or calibration mode features of the micro motion signals from an authorized user are extracted by the signal processing and feature extraction module to generate a calibration NFP including calibration NFP information X Y Z for each axis.

The calibration NFP information X Y Z for each axis is placed into a single row NFP matrix . Appropriate values of authorized user calibration parameters are unknown. The values for user calibration parameters can be randomly set into a single column calibration matrix . Matrix multiplication is performed by the processor to multiply the single row NFP matrix and the single column calibration matrix together to get a match percentage value .

During calibration training the processor searches out the user calibration parameters that are to be placed in the single column calibration matrix to generate a predetermined value for the match percentage . This predetermined value is referred to as the calibration level . For example the calibration level may be set to 90 . In which case the processor searches out values for the authorized user calibration parameters such that when multiplied with the NFP the match percentage output from the classifier is 90 or greater.

Once the authorized user calibration parameters are set and stored in the electronic device the NFP classifier uses the authorized user calibration parameters to multiply against subsequent regenerated NFPs that are generated from an unknown user or the authorized user.

If a person cannot subsequently generate a regenerated NFP that is substantially similar to the calibration NFP when the user calibration parameters are multiplied against a differing regenerated NFP the value of the match percentage generated by the classifier will be low. The authorization controller can be set so that low values for the match percentage deny access to unknown persons who generate a significantly different regenerated NFP.

If a person subsequently generates an NFP a regenerated NFP that is substantially similar to the calibration NFP when the user calibration parameters are multiplied against the regenerated NFP the value of the match percentage generated by the classifier will be high. The authorization controller can be set such that high values for the match percentage above an access match level A grants access to an electronic device.

Referring now to a raw unfiltered sample of acceleration data in three dimensions from a 3D accelerometer is shown. For X Y and Z axes of the electronic device raw signals are captured for each of the three dimensions. With some preprocessing band pass filtering and compensation for gravity micro motion signal waveforms shown in can be respectively formed from the raw signals . Further signal processing can then be performed on the micro motion signal waveforms to form an NFP for the given sample of acceleration data. There are various ways to generate an NFP from the micro motions signal. Once calibrated trained the NFP authentication controller in an electronic device uses a consistent method of generating the NFP.

The micro motion signal in three dimensions is related to a common tremor that is found in users. There is a pattern hidden in the time domain of the micro motions signal that is unique to each user as it is originating in his her neuromuscular functioning. It is desirable to emphasize the pattern by performing signal processing on the micro motions signal and then extracting features therefrom to form an NFP. A calibration NFP can then be used to generate authorized user calibration parameters during a training or calibration process. The authorized user calibration parameters can be subsequently used to classify regenerated NFPs and distinguish the known authorized user from unknown unauthorized users for the purpose of user authentication.

However before an NFP can be used for authentication it is used to train or calibrate a model of a classifier by generating a set of authorized user calibration parameters. This set of authorized user calibration parameters are then subsequently used with the classifier model to evaluate future NFPs regenerated NFPs that are captured by sensors from unknown persons. Various signal processing algorithms can be used to extract data from the micro motions signal as the NFP.

Hidden patterns in the micro motions signal such as the micro motion signals waveforms shown in for example may be detected with an inverse spectral analysis. The inverse spectral analysis is performed in order to recover unknown signal components linked to time variance.

One type of inverse spectral analysis that may be used is a Cepstrum analysis. Cepstrum analysis is a tool for the detection of periodicity in a frequency spectrum. It can be used to detect repeated patterns their periodicities and frequency spacing.

Generally a CEPSTRUM is the result of taking the Inverse Fourier transform IFT of the logarithm of the estimated spectrum of a signal.

As shown by the equation below a power CEPSTRUM of a signal may be defined as the squared magnitude of the inverse Fourier transform of the logarithm of the squared magnitude of the Fourier transform of a signal. Power CEPSTRUM of signal log 

Initially a Fourier spectrum of the micro motions signals such as the micro motions signals shown in is taken using a Fast Fourier transform. Mathematically this may be accomplished by performing a Fourier Transform using the equation circumflex over where represents real frequency in hertz values and the independent variable x represents time the transform variable. Using software or digital circuits that can digitally sample a signal a discrete time Fourier Transform DFT may be used represented by the equation

The result of Fourier transform on the micro motions signal is the spectral density power spectrum or Fourier spectrum . illustrates an example of a spectral density taken on acceleration over time for a tremor at the hand. Note that the expected peak P signal component of a physiological tremor is at a peak frequency PF of around 10 to 12 Hz. However there is still much hidden pattern HP information in the spectra density curve for the tremor that is useful.

The spectral density power spectrum is a composite of the component frequencies of a signal. That is there are numerous signal frequencies that are composed together to form the spectral density curve. It is desirable to effectively separate them out to show a pattern. The composite of signals illustrated by the spectral density is a convolution of signals equivalent to multiplications of the constitutive signals.

Taking the logarithm of a convolution effectively turns it into a summation of the constitutive signals instead of a multiplication. Additionally a logarithm of the spectral density or a logarithm of the square of spectral density emphasizes the lower amplitude frequency components in the spectra density curve where hidden pattern HP information may be found. Taking a logarithm of the spectral density effectively compresses the large signal amplitudes in the spectral density signal and expands the smaller amplitudes in the spectral density signal.

However it is difficult to see the periodicity and patterns in the signal waveform generated by a logarithmic transform. Accordingly an inverse Fourier transform IFT is performed on the logarithm signal waveform so that the unknown frequency component and hidden patterns are visible. The inverse Fourier transform of the logarithmic transform separates the components of the composite signal in the spectra density of the micro motions signal waveforms.

Generally the inverse Fourier transform is an integral that can integrate a function g over values of its variable. The inverse Fourier transform in this case may be represented by the equation 

Other features can be selected and their values extracted from the CEPSTRUM of the micro motions signal. Other signal processing may be performed so that additional features or patterns in the micro motions signal become apparent and may be used in the generation of an NFP. Consistency in what features are used to extract values is key for an NFP authentication system. The features should be predetermined. The same features e.g. first N peaks should be used during a calibration training mode with a calibration NFP and when in a use mode and forming the regenerated NFPs from new sample sets.

For example in it can be seen that the first five peaks P P P P P at their respective quefrequencies and amplitude on each axis e.g. 3 5 total amplitude values from 3 axes curves and 5 peaks have a large variance that may be used to distinctly identify a user. The amplitudes and quefrencies for the first five peaks P P P P P will be significantly different when captured from a different user. Thus the values of the amplitudes and quefrencies extracted for the first five peaks P P P P P can be used to distinguish the identity of users such as shown in for example. While the first five peaks are used in this example it is not a constraint or a limitation on the embodiments as fewer peaks additional peaks or a plurality of other features may be selected to form NFPs.

With the first five peaks P P P P P being the predetermined feature used to extract values from the CEPSTRUM signal waveform the NFP can be regenerated over and over again for the same user with minor variation. If a different user generates his her NFP the extracted values for the predetermined features will substantially vary. The substantial variance between NFPs of an authorized user and a different user can be used to grant access to the authorized user and deny access to the different user.

The first N features extracted from a CEPSTRUM waveform can be used to regenerate an NFP and used by the NFP authentication classifier to classify matches with authorized user calibration parameters. Selecting earlier features in the CEPSTRUM such as the first N e.g. N being 3 to 5 peaks or other coefficients may decrease the sample period but still represent much of the variance in the signal. These first N coefficients can be expanded into 128 extracted features by projecting the N features by PCA analysis and hence become linear combination of 128 extracted features for example.

Over a sample period of 5 10 or 20 seconds the values extracted from the CEPSTRUM waveform are the positions quefrencies and their respective amplitudes of the predetermined feature. If the predetermined features are the first five peaks for example the values of amplitude and quefrency for each axis are extracted as the NFP. This method aggregates time over a sample period.

Instead of aggregating time over the sample period the CEPSTRUM may be analyzed in near real time. In this case for example one peak at one quefrency may be selected and plotted as a function of time. For example peak P may be selected at a quefrency of 8 in . The 3D coordinates for amplitude of each axis at the quefrency of 8 can then be plotted as a function of time. Other features at other quefrencies can be further selected so there are N frequencies e.g. 128 quefrencies so an n space analysis can be performed using a nearest neighbor a linear or quadratic analysis where n is 128 for example.

However an analysis of 128 quefrencies is a challenge. The analysis can be made simpler and ease computing time by looking at where the most variance is in a waveform. We can take the first 3 5 or 10 quefrequency positions and perform a principle component analysis PCA in 3 5 or 10 dimensions of data space. A nearest neighbor analysis can then be performed for example on this restricted data space to extract values for the NFP.

Another way of feature extraction and generating values for the NFP can be done without 3D plotting of data points per quefrency as a function of time. One can take quefrency amplitude and time as true coordinates of a vector. N quefrencies can be selected to plot amplitude and time as dimensions. These vectors can then be plotted for resolved frequencies at any given time. This generates a time series of those extracted features that can be analyzed to extract values for the NFP.

Another way of feature extraction and generating values for the NFP is to extract those frequencies quefrencies amplitudes at various times like 50 times a second remembering that the interesting and relevant raw signals are bandpassed between 16 and 30 plus Hz . Within a few seconds a series of numbers are generated that may be used as extract values for the NFP. Values at different time points instead of quefrency may be extracted and used as the NFP.

While CEPSTRUM signal processing is described herein other signal processing algorithms can be used on the micro motion signals so that other patterns appear in a different waveform. Different features can be extracted from that waveform signal and used to define an NFP for the NFP authentication classifier. The different extracted features can be used as the NFP that is input into a model to generate the match percentage MP in response to authorized user calibration parameters.

Referring now to examples of a single axis of different NFPs for different users are shown. Additional dimensions may be provided by the two or more additional dimensions.

The first five peaks of the CEPSTRUM signal waveform are the predetermined features to be extracted for each user from the different micro motion signals of each user. The values for placement and amplitude of the first five peaks distinguish one user from another similar to how teeth and cuts in a door key distinguish keys. The authorized user calibration parameters act somewhat like tumblers of a lock that engage the teeth and cuts in a door key. If the teeth and cuts in the door key are wrong the tumblers of the door lock will not be properly engaged to unlock the lock. With more than one dimension e.g. 3 axis for feature extraction the more unique the NFPs become. illustrates an added dimension AD A of values of features that are extracted over and above the three dimensions of features extracted from the micro motions signal X Y Z to form the NFP .

While the 3D acceleration or 3D displacement values may be used time may be another dimension added. At one point in time the 3D values with have one amplitude while at another point in time they will have another.

Referring now to one or more dimensions for an NFP and user calibration parameters if trained are coupled into the NFP authentication classifier . The algorithm for the NFP authentication classifier is a data mining algorithm such as a linear regression algorithm a non linear regression algorithm a linear quadratic algorithm a quadratic equation algorithm a nearest neighbor classifier or a k by N nearest neighbor classifier. A linear regression algorithm is shown with a one row matrix with xM elements or columns multiplied together with a one column matrix with xM rows. The one row matrix represents the NFP with its values for the extracted features for each of the one or more dimensions. The one column matrix represents the authorized user calibration parameters . The multiplication in this case provides a value for a match percentage. During training calibration the user calibration parameters are adjusted to form a calibration level as the match percentage MP output .

The NFP authentication classifier is trained calibrated before use by an authorized user. Once the initial training calibration is completed unauthorized users cannot train or recalibrate the classifier . Micro motions signals are captured during one or more sample periods by the accelerometer with the electronic device in a user s hand or with the user pressing a touch sensor. The calibration may occur with left or right hands or both hands for an accelerometer. The calibration for a touch sensor may occur with one or more fingers of each hand.

The micro motion signals are processed using signal processing algorithms and features are extracted out of the resultant waveform as NFP calibration samples referred to herein as the calibration NFP. During training calibration the NFP calibration samples are used to find authorized user calibration parameters associated with the authorized user and train calibrate the classifier to generate a desired calibration match percentage level. After the authorized user calibration parameters have been generated and securely stored away the calibration NFP is discarded for security reasons. By not saving the calibration NFP an NFP needs to be regenerated in the user mode referred to as the regenerated NFP for a user to gain access to the electronic device. After device authentication has been reenacted to lock the device from access the NFP needs to be regenerated by the authorized user.

The regenerated NFP is generated with another sample of the neuro mechanical micro motions from the user and by recalling the stored authorized user calibration parameters from a storage device. The regenerated NFP is then used for authentication purposes to gain access to the electronic device. With the regenerated NFP the authorized user calibration parameters are likely to provide a high match percentage such that access is likely to be granted once again to the electronic device. Like the calibration NFP is discarded the regenerated NFP is not saved after being temporary used to measure authentication. The regenerated NFP is subsequently discarded for security reasons and the next regenerated NFP is generated and its match percentage with the authorized user calibration parameters evaluated. If the regenerated NFP is classified as having a match percentage greater than or equal to the access match level access to the electronic device granted.

The training of the NFP authentication classifier may be linear or not i.e. non linear depending upon the algorithm used by the classifier .

To calibrate the classifier a predetermined value is selected for the calibration match percentage level. The predetermined value for the calibration match percentage level may be 100 or less. However the predetermined value for the calibration match percentage level should be above the desired grant access match AM level.

Given the NFP calibration samples the processor in the electronic device runs through test sequences of user calibration parameters in order to generate a match percentage equal to or greater than the predetermined value for the calibration match percentage level. Before selecting the initial user calibration parameters that generate a match percentage equal to or greater than the calibration match percentage level the user may be asked to generate additional micro motions representing the NFP by continuing to hold the device or continue to press the touch sensitive button. These additional NFPs are used to verify that the classifier is properly trained calibrated by the user calibration parameters .

After calibration experiments were run to determine error rates in granting access to authorized users. Using a CEPSTRUM signal analysis of the micro motions signal a trained classifier in a hand held electronic device with accelerometer sensors had an error rate of 7 in recognizing the authorized user. An authorized user was correctly recognized 93 of the time. Accordingly the access match AM level needs to be set below 93 such as 80 for example so that the authorized user is consistently authorized to access the electronic device.

When the CEPSTRUM signal analysis of the micro motions signal was used with a touch sensitive keypad in an electronic device error results seem to improve. When a small sample size of users typed their PIN number on a touch sensitive keypad a one hundred percent recognition rate of the authorized user was achieved by the method using CEPSTRUM signal analysis. Regardless the access match AM level needs to be set below 100 such as 85 for example so that the authorized user is consistently authorized to access the electronic device.

Many existing time domain approaches to the task of signal classification are based on the existence of a fairly simple underlying pattern or template known a priori or learned from the data. With real signals however like cardiac speech or electric motor systems such a simple pattern rarely exists because of the complexity of the underlying processes. Indeed frequency based techniques are based on the existence of spectral patterns. From a stochastic processes perspective frequency based techniques of signal processing used on the micro motions signal will just capture the first and second order characteristics of the system.

The CEPSTRUM analysis described herein can extract some time related information from the accelerometer data but this approach remains linked to the frequency dispersion. Because there is more information in the micro motion signals than plain frequencies other signal processing techniques and feature extraction methods may be able to improve the strength of an NFP so that it is less sensitive and less likely to change over time.

Chaos analytics may be used instead for example to generate NFPs. Using chaos one could extract analogous predetermined features to that described with respect to the CEPSTRUM. However these predetermine features are not based on frequencies but with trajectories in time. Example features for extraction using Chaos analytics is the center of gravity of the strange attractor s combined with their fractal dimension and Lyapunov exponent. Data sweeps over several seconds e.g. 5 10 20 seconds may be used to obtain values for these features from the micro motions signal.

Another example of using chaos analytics is to use the waveform signal generated from the Logarithm of the spectrum for each axis without the IFT. From the logarithm waveform signal amplitude and time can be taken as true coordinates of a vector and plotted for N e.g. N 128 resolved frequencies at any given time. The centers dimensionality and lyapunov may be extracted as a time series of values representing the NFP.

In accordance with one embodiment phase plots or Poincare plots see Poincare plots A D shown in for example may be generated from which NFP signal features can be extracted and coupled into the NFP authentication classifier. There is more information in an orbit of a phase plot or Poincare plot than that of the Cepstrum waveforms. Accordingly it is useful to use phase plots or Poincare plots generated from the filtered micro motions data stream from which to extract the features in the sensor data for an NFP.

In yet another embodiment a hidden Markov model analysis is used as the signal processing module to obtain more feature information as the NFP to couple into the chosen classifier. A Markov model is a stochastic model used to model randomly changing systems where future states depend only on the present state and not on the sequence of events that preceded it. A Markov chain a state space of one or more states is often used as the Markov model. The transition from one state to another is a memory less random process. The next state depends only on the current state and not on the sequence of events that preceded it. A hidden Markov model is a Markov chain for which the state is only partially observable.

Referring now to a state machine is illustrated that implements the hidden Markov model analysis. The state machine and hidden Markov model are used to extract features from a signal processed waveform of the micro motions signal and perform the classification to grant or deny access or authenticate a user .

The state machine includes states and extracted features F A through Fn N from a signal processes waveform e.g. the Poincare plots shown in where N is less than or equal to 10. State is an accept state state is a recalibration state state is a deny state and state is a reset initialization state.

There are state transitions that can be made between the states of the state machine . State transition a is from the accept state to the recalibration state . State transition a is from the recalibration state to the deny state . State transition a is from the recalibration state to the accept state . State transition a is from the accept state to the deny state . The deny state may also transition to the reset initialization state .

From the states to the features F A through Fn N there are output probabilities. From the accept state to the features F A through Fn N there are output probabilities Oa through Oan. From the recalibration state to the features F A through Fn N there are output probabilities Or through Orn. From the deny state to the features F A through Fn N there are output probabilities Od through Odn.

With a hidden Markov model one tries to get at correct answers without having the inner details of the system that is being analyzed. The answers are the states which are truly complex and based on chaotic inputs. The N features F A through Fn N that are extracted are the only measurable. The features may be various such as a center of gravity or a series of Lyapunov exponents whatever can be extracted out of data trajectories each of which be related with specific odds ratios e.g. Oa Oan Or Orn Od Odn to the three states . One exits the state machine through the transition to the fourth state . The fourth state corresponds to the system re initialization such as a full reset.

In still another embodiment a dynamical systems signal analysis is performed based on reconstructed phase spaces RPSs with new signal classification approaches. Dynamical invariants may be used as the features that are to be extracted after the signal analysis. It is expected that this approach can capture more information leading to better user recognition.

As shown in a person holds the electronic device or touches one or more touch sensitive pads to authenticate himself herself. For a few seconds of a sample period a 3D sensor sensors located on different axes in the electronic device senses the vibrations or micro motions in the user s hand or finger due to the physiological condition of the user s body. The 3D sensor generates three electronic signals concurrently in time that can be sampled and converted into digital form. The digital samples are preprocessed and analyzed using signal processing techniques to generate an NFP in real time for the user that just handled the electronic device or touched the touch sensor.

In response to authorized user calibration parameters the NFP may then be used to evaluate whether or not the person holding or touching the electronic device is an authorized user. A valid NFP may be used to authenticate a file that was signed written or created by the authorized user. Alternatively an NFP may be used to secure data. In response to authorized user calibration parameters the NFP may be used as an encryption cipher key to encrypt encode and decrypt decode data files using an encryption encoding algorithm. The mirrored decryption decoding algorithm is usually included as part of the encryption encoding algorithm.

Referring now to a method of securing data is now described. In the system is calibrated initially by acquiring the NFP or NFP user calibration parameters of the first or primary user with a sensor of an acquisition device and storing the NFP in a secured storage device. The secured storage device may be a local or remote secured storage device. Alternatively the secured storage device may be a portable secured storage device such as a Universal Serial Bus USB key or thumb drive. The secured storage device is accessible only to the first primary user and other trusted guarantor or secondary users.

Encryption encoding and or decryption decoding may occur in real time e.g. on the fly when a file is to be securely stored or retrieved by the first primary user with a valid live or newly acquired regenerated NFP. Alternatively the stored NFP or stored NFP calibration parameters can be subsequently accessed from the secured storage device to encrypt or decrypt data in non real time. The trusted guarantor or secondary users will use the stored NFP or stored NFP calibration parameters to encrypt or decrypt data in non real time when the first primary user may be unavailable. Typically the first primary user will use a valid live or newly acquired regenerated NFP to encrypt or decrypt data in real time. However there are circumstances where the first primary user will use the stored NFP or stored user calibration parameters to encrypt and or decrypt data.

In multi dimensional motion of a body part of the first or primary user is sensed using a sensor to generate a multi dimensional signal. The multi dimensional signal and user calibration parameters are used to generate or regenerate a neuro mechanical fingerprint of the first or primary user. A comparison is made with the regenerated neuro mechanical fingerprint and the stored neuro mechanical fingerprint to determine a match percentage. The match percentage is compared to a predetermined match percentage level e.g. a live match percentage level or access match level . If the match percentage is greater than or equal to the predetermined match percentage level then data can be encrypted decrypted with an encryption algorithm using the neuro mechanical fingerprint as an encryption decryption key. If the match percentage is less than the predetermined match percentage level then use of the key as an encryption decryption key of data is denied.

The first primary user may invite other trusted guarantor or secondary users to share the use of his stored NFP or stored user calibration parameters to encrypt decrypted data. This may be useful in the case of incapacitation disease or even death of the first primary user of encryption. The trusted guarantor or secondary users would then be able to at least decrypt the data that was encrypted by the first primary user in the event of his death. The first primary user of encryption may need to use the stored NFP or stored user calibration parameters if later in life the first primary user becomes sick ill diseased and unable to re generate his first stored NFP within the predetermined match percentage level. Accordingly the first primary user may encrypt decrypt his her data using either their live NFP or their stored NFP.

The one or more trusted guarantor or secondary users are to be initialized to the NFP system such as shown in capturing motion generating a signal and generating the secondary NFP associated with the one or more trusted guarantor or secondary users. The secondary NFPs associated with the one or more trusted guarantor or secondary users are associated with the stored NFP.

The secondary NFP is not used to decrypt or encrypt data that is associated with the first or primary user. The secondary NFP in this case is used to gain access to the stored NFP associated with the first primary user. The stored NFP associated with the first primary user and the secondary users is effectively locked from unauthorized users with access granted only to the first primary user and the one or more trusted guarantor or secondary users that are invited.

In the access to the secured storage device storing the stored NFP is restricted by a locking mechanism. The one of the one or more trusted guarantor or secondary users must be previously associated with the stored NFP by the first primary user to gain access. The respective secondary NFPs of the respective one or more trusted guarantor or secondary users may be used to unlock the security around the stored NFP and gain access to the stored NFP of the first primary user. To gain access one of the one or more trusted guarantor or secondary users are invited to touch a touch pad to re generate their secondary NFP. In addition to the first primary user the secondary users are associated with the stored NFP.

In one of the one or more trusted guarantor or secondary users tries to gain access and read the stored NFP originally associated with the first primary user. The one or more trusted guarantor or secondary users may need access to the encrypted data that was encrypted by the first user with the first NFP when the first primary user becomes incapacitated or dies for example. The one or more trusted guarantor or secondary users are unable to use their own NFP as the key to decrypting the data encrypted with the first NFP of the first user.

A trusted guarantor or secondary user touches an acquisition device with a multi dimensional sensor such as a touch pad to re generate their secondary NFP with the stored secondary user calibration parameters. The re generation of the secondary NFP with the stored secondary user calibration parameters also forms a match percentage.

The match percentage of the re generated secondary NFP is checked against a predetermined match percentage level e.g. live match percentage level to determine if access to the stored NFP associated with the first primary user should be granted. For example if the match percentage of the re generated secondary NFP is greater than or equal to the predetermined match percentage level then the trusted guarantor or secondary user associated with the re generated secondary NFP is granted access to the stored NFP. The trusted guarantor or secondary user can unlock the security around the stored NFP with his her own NFP. If the match percentage of the re generated secondary NFP is less than the predetermined match percentage level the user is not a valid or authorized secondary user and is denied access. The security around the stored NFP remains locked to unauthorized users.

With access granted the trusted guarantor or secondary user can cause the stored NFP to be read out or played back from the secured storage device. The stored NFP is then checked for verification.

The stored NFP is used to generate a match percentage that is checked against a predetermined match percentage level e.g. stored match percentage level which may be less than greater than or equal to the predetermined match percentage level e.g. live match percentage level that is used to check against live regeneration of an NFP. Use of the stored NFP should result in a match percentage greater than or equal to the predetermined match percentage level and authorization to use it for encryption decryption.

With authorization the stored NFP can then be used as a key by the trusted guarantor or secondary user to decrypt data that was encrypted with the stored NFP. The stored NFP may also then be used as a key by the trusted guarantor or secondary user to encrypt data with the stored NFP.

While this process illustrates the trusted guarantor or secondary user gaining access to the stored NFP associated with the first primary user the first primary user may do so as well. The first primary user of encryption may need to use the stored NFP or stored user calibration parameters if later in life the first primary user becomes sick ill diseased and is unable to re generate his first NFP within the predetermined match percentage level. Accordingly the first primary user may still be able to encrypt decrypt his her data using his her stored NFP as an encryption key.

The user calibration parameters may be used like the NFP. The user calibration parameters may be stored in a local file or in a local storage device in the electronic device. Alternatively the user calibration parameters may be stored in a remote file in a storage device associated with a server or in a storage device of a storage area network in the internet cloud. The user calibration parameters may be used as an encryption decryption key for an encryption algorithm. In which case they may be stored in a secure storage device.

The authorized user calibration parameters are somewhat useless without the hand or finger of the live authorized user. Without the hand or finger of the authorized user regenerating his her NFP access to the electronic device is denied.

The NFP Authentication system can be used to control access into an electronic device. The NFP authentication system may also be used to control access to functions associated with and software applications executed by the electronic device. The NFP authentication system can be used to control access to a remote electronic device i.e. where the sensing is done on a local device to determine access to a remote electronic device.

Examples of functions that may have controlled access by the NFP authentication system include but are not limited to logons user protected accesses e transactions and any other local function that requires positive authentication.

For example security applications for an NFP authentication system includes computer and software logins electronic commerce electronic banking and anti fraud applications. Examples of human control applications for an NFP authentication system include domotic authentication and protection home security systems car safety and professional access to restricted zones. Examples of medical applications for an NFP authentication system include a diagnostic aid for health professionals Neuromuscular a.o. therapy monitoring for patients and patient and doctor medical authentication records data routing . . . into databases storing medical records. Examples of health and wellness applications for an NFP authentication system include securing physical fitness records of a user. Examples of gaming applications for an NFP authentication system include safety features for virtual reality gaming and or simulators.

Biometric encryption combines touch recognition technology with the actual data storage. The data is encrypted with the NFP so that it is un readable except by the authorized user owner of the data. Backdoor access is unavailable. However other authorized users that are trusted persons may also have authorized user calibration parameters generated so that they are granted access in case of problems related to the original user owner.

Touch recognition technology can be embedded in certain applications. For example touch recognition technology can be used in access control panels such that when a surface is touched by human hands or a human finger a door may be unlocked so that access to a vehicle a building e.g. a home or office or a zone e.g. a floor may be granted or denied in response to the user s NFP without using a key keyless . Similarly touch recognition technology can be used in a wireless key fob held in the user s hand or touched by a finger so that access may be granted or denied in response to the user s NFP without using a key. Touch recognition technology can be combined with fingerprint authentication. In this case an image scanner and touch sensitive pad can be used together to concurrently capture both a user s fingerprint and the user s NFP for multiple authentications in granting or denying access.

With additional signal processing algorithms the generation of the NFP may be adapted to monitor a user s health and wellness. The change in the regeneration of the NFP can decrease the match percentage indicating a degradation in health of a user. It may be used to discover and or monitor neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer Parkinson or be used for therapeutic monitoring. It may be used to obtain measures of heart rhythm variability the correlation of stress and emotional situations can be measured with accelerometers by extracting the shock waves of the cardiac pulses when a user holds a device. It may be used as a physiological safety feature for virtual reality glasses and goggle that may be used such as in the video game industry.

Governments may provide online services such as voting and the touch technology can be used to verify the identity of an authorized user. Schools and educators may provide online tests. Touch technology may be used to verify the identity of a user on a web page or web site portal where the user logs in. For example a student taking an online test for example can be readily identified with NFP touch technology even if the student takes a test that may be taken at school. Electronic online banking can be made more secure with banks being able to verify the identity of its customers with the touch technology.

The NFP technology can protect medical records by better authentication of a patient and doctor as well as encryption of the medical records. A user can authenticate his her interactions with the health care system providers insurers medical record companies . . . . A user can securely store his her medical records in the cloud or on any device in an encrypted format with the NFP being the key.

There are a number of advantages to touch recognition with a NFP. Touch recognition does not require a centralized database. Access to an electronic device is locally controlled and shielded by a local NFP user authentication system.

An additional advantage of NFP is that one can be uniquely identified as a proper user of an electronic device but remain anonymous providing strong user privacy protection. The NFP is generated in response to brain nerve system related signals generated by a sensor. It can provide next to foolproof unique user identification even twins have different motricity .

Touch recognition employs a neurological algorithm to generate an NFP from a micro motion signal associated the micro motions of a finger on a hand. This avoids context linked repertoires or motion repertoires that are associated with behavioral biometrics. It is user friendly and can provide a friction less login and authentication.

The neurological algorithms can be developed in software and added to pre existing electronic devices with an application programming interface API or a mobile software development kit. It can be added as part of a system login.

The neurological algorithms need not continuously monitor a sensor. They can be sleeping until the electronic device is woken up from sleep or the sensor senses a touch. Training time and identification is quick only a few seconds needed. Accordingly the neurological algorithms can conserver power and intelligently use the battery power that is usually available in mobile device electronics.

When implemented in software the elements of the embodiments are essentially the code segments of instructions that may be executed by one or more processors to perform and carry out tasks and provide functionality. For example a processor e.g. processor in may be configured in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software by instructions to perform the functional processes of the NFP authentication controller described herein. The program instructions or code segments can be stored in a processor readable medium or storage device e.g. storage device in that are coupled to or at least in communication with the one or more processors. The processor readable medium may include a storage device or any medium that can store information. Examples of a processor readable medium include but are not limited to an electronic circuit a semiconductor memory device a read only memory ROM a flash memory an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM a floppy diskette a CD ROM an optical disk a hard disk or a solid state drive. The program or code segments may be downloaded or transmitted between storage devices for example over computer networks such as the Internet Intranet etc.

While this specification includes many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the disclosure or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular implementations of the disclosure. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate implementations may also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation may also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in sub combination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination may in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a sub combination or variations of a sub combination.

Accordingly while certain exemplary embodiments have been particularly described and shown in the accompanying drawings they should not be construed as limited by such embodiments but rather construed according to the claims that follow below.

