---

title: Systems and methods for authenticating an avatar
abstract: Systems and methods for authenticating an avatar are provided. This system is useful with an avatar having an identifier, virtual environments, and a user who uses the avatar in the virtual environments. Transoms are generated, each with a unique identifier configured to exist in a specific location, and registered with an identity provider. The transom initiates a request. An offer is conveyed that includes the transom identifier, the location and the avatar identifier. The avatar is then authenticated by a shared secret. The identity provider then responds to the offer with avatar identification information, including reputation information. Reputation information is for the avatar and the user, and is compiled from external avatar data sources by using a trust matrix. An avatar gallery is generated by linking each avatar owned by each user to the account and compiling avatar profiles from the account, and the reputation information. The avatar profiles are searchable, and include micro formats.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09635008&OS=09635008&RS=09635008
owner: 
number: 09635008
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20160201
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 542 661 filed on Nov. 17 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 694 156 filed Mar. 30 2007 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 560 743 filed on Nov. 16 2006 and entitled Systems And Methods For Managing A Persistent Virtual Avatar With Migrational Ability. The present application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 from the foregoing applications and the foregoing applications are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The present invention relates to a system and method for authenticating an avatar and more particularly authenticating an avatar with reputation information from a centralized identity provider. Such an authentication system is useful in conjunction with security and identification within Massively Multiplayer Online Games MMOGs virtual worlds and online social networks. Currently at best identification and reputation within virtual environments is highly fragmented among each individual virtual world. More often however there is an utter lack of identification and reputation within the virtual environments. The fact that identity and reputation within virtual worlds is so elusive results in heightened risk when sharing important information such as in financial transactions.

An avatar is a virtual representation of an individual within a virtual environment. Avatars often include physical characteristics statistical attributes inventories social relations emotional representations and weblogs blogs or other recorded historical data. Avatars may be human in appearance but are not limited to any appearance constraints. Avatars may be personifications of a real world individual such as a Player Character PC within a MMOG or may be an artificial personality such as a Non Player Character NPC . Additional artificial personality type avatars include personal assistants guides educators answering servers and information providers. Additionally some avatars may have the ability to be automated some of the time and controlled by a human at other times. Such Quasi Player Characters QPCs may perform mundane tasks automatically but more expensive human agents take over in cases of complex problems.

Avatars however exist in virtual worlds that embrace anonymity. An avatar may appear any way the author of the avatar or end user desires. Moreover the name appearance and statistics of an avatar may often be changed on a whim An end user may have several avatars for any virtual environment and connecting an avatar to its end user is difficult at best.

The number of active subscribers to MMOGs is at least 10 million people. Each person pays 15 and up a month to play these games and maybe an additional 20 million people login occasionally. Estimates are that players spent about 1 billion in real money in 2005 on virtual goods and services for MMOGs combined. Moreover at least 1.5 million people subscribe to virtual worlds. In January 2006 inside one such virtual social world people spent nearly 5 million in some 4.2 million transactions buying or selling clothes buildings and the like. Moreover participants in web communities number in the multiple tens of millions. Every day these participants engage in financial transactions. Additionally access to certain information subsets of the virtual world or services may be restricted to certain participants only. Such activities produce a large risk for the parties involved much of the risk stemming from identity ambiguities.

Currently when a party wishes to provide sensitive information transfer goods or allow access to an avatar embodied end user local reputation of the avatar if available is often the only assurances the party has since there is currently no way to ascertain end user reputation beyond the limited reputation of each individual avatar s local reputation. End users may improperly use received information misrepresent themselves to gain access or breach contract since there is usually no repercussions to the end user because with a simple change in identity the wrong deed is no longer traceable to the end user. Thus it would be advantageous to have a system enabled to compile the end user s reputation rather than a single avatars reputation in order to dictate online transactions.

Moreover such a system of authentication may be utilized to provide highly targeted marketing. By compiling users preferences highly refined advertisements may be generated for the end user however without knowledge of an avatar s identity such refined advertisements are ineffectual. This further reinforces the need of a system for authenticating an avatar for identity.

Additionally due to the fragmented multitudes of virtual worlds it is also important for such an authentication system to be available across multiple platforms. Effectively by removing the authentication system from any singular virtual world and enabling a global system reputation and identity information may be more accurately compiled. Also such a system enables secure communications between individuals that are inhibiting separate virtual worlds by verifying identity of the individuals within each virtual environment. Systems for authenticating an avatar s users identity and supplying reputation information in this manner do not currently exist.

Additionally due to the frequency of financial transactions and the regularity of access inquiries such authentications are preferably performed rapidly with a minimal interference to the end user and transacting party. As such it is desirable to have a system for authenticating an avatar s end users identity and supplying reputation information that is integrated into the virtual environment for rapid and efficient authentication.

It is therefore apparent that an urgent need exists for a system and method for authenticating avatars that integrates the ability to provide reputation information of the avatar s user. This system would be able to provide increased security in online transactions enable targeted marketing and promote heightened accountability for participants in virtual worlds.

To achieve the foregoing and in accordance with the present invention systems for vetting and authenticating an avatar and methods for providing identity and reputation information are provided. Such systems and methods are useful for increasing security in online transactions enabling targeted marketing and promoting heightened accountability for participants in virtual worlds.

Systems and methods for authenticating an avatar or virtual entity for identity are useful in conjunction with a virtual entity virtual environments and a second user a first user and an identity registrar. The end user uses the virtual entity in the virtual environments. Transoms are generated. A first user manages the transom. Each transom has a unique identifier and is registered with an identity provider. The transom initiates a request.

The virtual entity has an identifier. An offer is conveyed that includes the transom identifier the transom location and the virtual entity identifier. The virtual entity is then is then authenticated by utilizing a shared secret. Authenticating the virtual entity includes determining if the virtual entity has been previously authenticated. If the virtual entity has been previously authenticated then the virtual entity is re authenticated. Otherwise the user is redirected to a user agent who includes a nonce and a new account is generated for the user with the identity provider. Redirection by the user agent is done in world if the virtual environment supports user agent protocol otherwise the user is redirected out of world. The user is then logged into the account and the virtual entity is then authenticated.

The Identity Registrar then responds to the offer with vetted virtual entity identification information which may include reputation information. Reputation information is for the virtual entity and the user.

Vetted virtual entity identity information is compiled for the user and each virtual entity from external virtual entity data sources by using a trust matrix. The trust matrix generates a trust rating for the user by analyzing relationships between the user and the First User through at least one intermediate party.

Additionally a virtual entity gallery may then be generated by linking each virtual entity owned by each end user to the account and compiling virtual entity profiles from the account the vetted virtual entity information. The virtual entity profiles are searchable and include micro formats.

Note that the various features of the present invention described above may be practiced alone or in combination. These and other features of the present invention will be described in more detail below in the detailed description of the invention and in conjunction with the following figures.

The present invention will now be described in detail with reference to several embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps and or structures have not been described in detail in order to not unnecessarily obscure the present invention. The features and advantages of the present invention may be better understood with reference to the drawings and discussions that follow.

The present invention relates to systems and methods for managing persistent virtual avatars and more particularly persistent virtual avatars that have the ability to migrate and have cross membrane capacity. Such avatars are useful in conjunction with Massively Multiplayer Online Games MMOGs virtual social worlds and online web communities generically referred to as virtual environments . All virtual environments may be collectively referred to as the virtual universe . A persistent avatar may be a character non player character quasi player character agent personal assistant personality guide representation educator or any additional virtual entity that requires persistence between virtual environments. In a society of ever increasing reliance and blending between real life and our virtual lives the ability to migrate seamlessly between virtual environments with a substantially constant set of attributes is highly desirable and advantageous.

To facilitate discussion shows a schematic block diagram illustrating a persistent avatar management system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. A Wide Area Network WAN provides a medium for all other components to communicate and have access to one another. In some embodiments the WAN may be the Internet however any WAN may be used as is known by those skilled in the art. Network connections are made through 10 100 1000 Megabit sec Ethernet cable although other network wiring technologies such as high speed optical cable may also be used. Additionally Wireless mesh networks may also be used to couple wired networks network devices or access points as is well known by those skilled in the art.

Virtual Universe is coupled to the WAN for access by the Customers . The term Customers includes users who use the persistent avatar and owners who own the persistent avatars. In some embodiments the user of a particular avatar may also be the Avatar s owner. Alternatively the owner and the user may be separate individuals. Moreover the user and owner may include multiple individuals or organizations such as a corporation. In some embodiments some or all of these permutations of user and owner may constitute the Customers . The Virtual Universe may be accessed by the persistent avatars. Once accessed the persistent avatar may engage in the Virtual Universe in at least all capacities that a native avatar is able. Additionally the persistent avatar may communicate with other virtual environments within the Virtual Universe or with the real world.

In some embodiments an Availability Monitor also may couple to the WAN . The Availability Monitor may provide constant monitoring of critical services for troubleshooting and downtime reduction purposes. In many cases the Availability Monitor may be located in many different geographical locations so that a triangulation of service availability problems may be preformed.

A Network Operation Center NOC includes at least one Public Server coupled to an Internal Server through a Firewall . The Internal Server may couple to a Local Area Network LAN . The Firewall limits assess by Customers and unauthorized parties into the LAN . Additionally communication between the Public Server and the Internal Server through the Firewall may utilize Network Address Translation NAT as is well known by those skilled in the art. Public Server Firewall and Internal Server may be separate physical entities. Alternatively the Public Server Firewall and Internal Server may be housed within a single server. Additionally Database is coupled to the LAN . The Database may include customer account information persistent avatar attribute data and avatar conversational data for data mining Due to the vast amount of avatar data within the Database a data management system for infrequently accessed information may be utilized to increase Database performance An Identity Registrar may be coupled to the LAN . Identity Registrar may form an integral part of identity authentication. Additional components may be coupled to the LAN that are not shown. These components may include printers additional databases additional servers telephone networks fax routers or other network devices.

The NOC may be in a single location however in some embodiments the NOC may be distributed over multiple locations for increased reliability and efficiency and reduced vulnerability to NOC disruption and disaster.

The Public Server couples the NOC to the WAN . Additionally in some embodiments a Merchant Processing and Offsite Backup may independently couple to the Public Server . Alternatively Merchant Processing and Offsite Backup may couple to the Public Server through the WAN . Due to the variability of viable currencies existing within Virtual Universe Merchant Processing allows payment through unconventional means thus increasing the available Customers base. Examples of unconventional payments available through Merchant Processing include but are not limited to PayPal Linden Dollars and Google Checkout.

Offsite Backup provides for operational data to be store in a safe means. In some embodiments Offsite Backup may include a third party. Offsite Backup may include but is not limited to disk images for each kind of server configuration source code repositories customized third party software on intranet database contents email archives and server logs. A server state web sites customer services etc. may be recovered from Offsite Backup . Offsite Backup acts as an insurance against disaster or other NOC disruptions.

In some embodiments the NOC may access multiple WAN Application Programming Interfaces APIs through that may be coupled to the WAN . The WAN APIs to functionalities may then be integrated into the persistent avatars capabilities.

A logical block diagram of the Virtual Universe is shown in . Each Virtual Environments to to to to to is coupled to the WAN . Each subcategory Virtual Overlays of Real World Data WEB Communities MMOGs and Social Worlds and Telecom may include multiple Virtual Environments to . Moreover some Virtual Environments to may be hybrids of these subcategories. Thus while the line between specific subcategories may become increasingly indistinct the boundaries between individual Virtual Environments to are distinct and nearly impassable. Occasionally the Virtual Overlays of Real World Data have provided some connectivity between Virtual Environments to as shown in however this connectivity is limited in scope. The NOC on the other hand is able to access all the Virtual Environments to thereby providing a bridging mechanism to allow for persistent avatars to migrate from any Virtual Environment to another Virtual Environment

A logical block diagram of an exemplary Virtual Environment is shown in . Within each Virtual Environment exists an Enabler . The Enabler allows for Persistent Avatar to to access the WAN and eventually the NOC . In some embodiments each Virtual Environment has a corresponding Enabler . However any number of Persistent Avatars to may exist within a Virtual Environment at any given time. Additionally due to the migratory nature of the Persistent Avatars to the number of Avatars to within the Virtual Environments is in flux.

A logical block diagram of an exemplary Persistent Avatar is shown in . In some embodiments Persistent Avatar may include Physical Attributes Intellectual Attributes and Emotional Attributes . Physical Attributes may include Avatar s physical statistics such as strength and appearance data. Intellectual Attributes may include the Avatar s backstory history and memory. Emotional Attributes may include the Avatar s emotional disposition and reaction and response algorithms

The Enabler may exist within the Virtual Environments to as either integrated software or as independent hardware. In some embodiments the Enabler may exist within the NOC . In alternate embodiments the Enabler may exist with the Customers . In these embodiments the Customers may additionally include the Database and Server thereby circumventing the need for any centralized NOC .

Else if at step the authentication is not required the process progresses directly to step . In some embodiments the encoding takes place within the Virtual Environment that the Avatar is located.

In step the Server processes the encoded data for language emotion animation planning and movement and attribute changes. The Server may then make modifications to the avatars attribute data.

In step the Virtual Environment receives the response to the transaction request over the WAN from the Server .

In step the Enabler decodes response from the server to drive conversation movement actions or animations.

Otherwise if a new avatar is created then a determination is made whether the Avatar attributes will be from an avatar already in existence in one of the Virtual Environments to at step . If the Avatar is not from a preexisting avatar then the new Avatar will be built from scratch at step . Then the Virtual Environment receives the user information and data for the newly created Avatar from over the WAN from the Server at step . Then proceed to step below.

Else if the new Avatar is from a preexisting avatar then Enabler encodes the avatar s data from the Virtual Environment for importing to Server at step . Then in step the avatar data is imported to the Server . In step the imported avatar data may be used to create the new Avatar . Then the Virtual Environment receives the user information and data for the newly created Avatar from over the WAN from the Server at step . Then proceed to step below.

If in step the user is a new user then the user registers in step . Registration may include generating a username and password. Then an Avatar is created. A determination is made whether the new Avatar attributes will be from an avatar already in existence in a Virtual Environment at step . If the new Avatar is not from a preexisting avatar then the new Avatar will be built from scratch at step . Then the Virtual Environment receives the user information and data for the newly created Avatar from over the WAN from the Server at step . Then proceed to step below.

Else if the new Avatar is from a preexisting avatar then Enabler encodes the avatar data from the Virtual Environment for importing to Server at step . Then in step the avatar data is imported to the Server . In step the imported avatar data may be used to create the new Avatar . Then the Virtual Environment receives the user information and data for the newly created Avatar from over the WAN from the Server at step .

At step the Enabler decodes the data and logs the Avatar into the Virtual Environment . The Avatar incurs experiences within the Virtual Environment which may result in changes made to the Avatar . At step the experiences within Virtual Environment modify Avatar data. In step the enabler encodes the Avatar data including the modifications for storage on the Server . In step the Virtual Environment sends the Avatar to data over the WAN to the Server . The Server then stores the Avatar data thereby incorporating changes made to the Avatar within the Virtual Environment

The User Director includes a User Administrator which in turn includes User Manager and User Parameters . User Parameters is coupled to the User Administration Main . The User Director module allows for management of users and the parameters of each user. For instance a particular one of Customers may have multiple users however certain Virtual Environments to may be accessible to a subset of the users.

The Forum Module may provide access to forums to enhance communication. The Forum Module may include forum search ability the ability to view forums and archive forum discussions.

The Blog Module provides a web log history of the Avatar s actions and conversations. The Blog Module may include searching capabilities viewing capabilities and the ability to edit or delete the conversational histories of the Avatar

The Support Module may include the ability to request support search support inquiries by other users view resolutions to common problems and troubleshoot.

The Avatar Development Module includes Avatar Module Avatar Viewer Avatar Testing Module and an Avatar Redactor . The Avatar Module includes Avatar Manager and Avatar Navigator . Avatar Testing Module includes manual Avatar Driver and Avatar Monitor . The Avatar Redactor includes an Avatar Creator an Avatar Editor Visualization Editor Intellectual Editor and an Emotional Editor . The Avatar Redactor includes the ability to create edit copy review and manage one or more Persistent Avatars to

The Avatar Module couples with Avatar Viewer manual Avatar Driver Avatar Monitor Avatar Creator and the Avatar Redactor via the Avatar Creator and Avatar Editor . The Avatar Editor couples with the Visualization Editor Intellectual Editor and Emotional Editor . The layout and structure of the Customer Interface is of course not limited by the embodiments aforementioned. Alternate interface designs may be utilized as desired.

Administrators are power users who may administrate work of main Customer Interface functions. For example Administrators may create arbitrator for forums within the Forum Module and approving of registration new users. Administrators are coupled to WAN Manager and Avatar Manager . Avatar Manager includes the ability to Change Avatar s Owner Avatar Authentication Preferencer and Avatar Lock . Avatar Manager has direct effects upon Avatar Navigator .

Authors are users who are involved in process of Avatar development narrations writing Avatar knowledgebase filling drawing etc. . Author has access to Blog Module as well. In some embodiments the Author encapsulates two classes corporate customer and end user. There may be a difference between the two for the feature sets enabled in the Avatar Redactor . For example corporate customer includes game designer at a companies and would include less breadth of feature sets but more depth. An example of end user includes an individual with a MySpace account who requires more breadth of feature sets but less depth. Authors have access to New Avatar Creator Avatar Eliminator utilize Train Wizard access Avatar Testing Module and Avatar Editor . The Train Wizard may be an advanced feature that utilizes a wizard wherein the wizard is a guided set of dialog windows with embedded help to guide the user through an initial experience of creating rules for the Avatar . In some embodiments an example of interaction may then be shown in the same window as the rules editor thereby allowing convenient training. Such a feature may be valuable to less experienced users.

Intellectual Editor may be coupled to Background Editor and Personalizer . Background Editor may be coupled to Narration Generator Generic Intellectual Background Appointer Concept Map Generator and Narration Parser . In some embodiments a concept map is a graphical representation of a narrative represented by concepts . Narration Generator may be coupled to Backstory Generator . Personalizer may be coupled to Rule Map Editor and Asset Associator . A Rule Map includes an interactive graphic of the rules how they are connected which rules are used more often than the others.

Emotional Editor may be coupled to Generic Emotional State Appointer Emotions Adder and Individual Emotions Editor . Additional aspects of the Avatar may become editable as Avatar complexity increases. It is intended that these additional editing functions become incorporated into the Avatar Editor . Additionally in some embodiments it may be advantageous to have fewer editing functions for simplicity or cost versus benefit reasons.

There are three primary methods of creating dimensional computer graphics as is well known by those skilled in the art. The first method is to manually input data either by typing or using a Graphical User Interface GUI . This is tedious but precise and generally looks quite good. The second method is to use 3D scanning technology to enter data which is fast precise looks good but is often quite expensive since it requires a 3D scanner. The third method is the use of algorithms which generate models from pre existing formula position sets or other data that dictates the position of the geometry then doing some variable on that or even creating it from the ground up. This method once built is extremely fast precise and inexpensive but may result in distribution of potential errors. Accordingly one all or a combination of these methods may be utilized to create dimensional computer graphics for use in the process of editing the Avatar s appearance.

In some embodiments template sets are built that articulate several common anthropomorphic configurations. This template contains all the features of a numerically average human. The proportions of the nose arms posture and other visual features are built to an average for male female and neuter models. This is done for mesomorph ectomorph and endomorph body types. This provides nine templates from which to work from. The nine base templates may be edited so that any small adjustments are made to ensure a high quality model of nearly perfect appearance. The model may be custom tailored to specific desires of facial or body features. The user may engage in an editing process with one of the nine templates which when completed creates a model that very closely approximates the user s desired appearance.

In some embodiments an alternate production path may be desired. Many gamers and developers will have already built models of Avatars to that they enjoy and it is desirous to allow them to use these as they may have an Avatar that looks as they want it to. The user may want to imbue the Avatar with emotion and intellect.

Polygons may be a default method of 3D representation. However while polygons may be subdivided and reduced the presence of edges generally makes calculation that changes visual resolution complicated if at all workable. Therefore in some embodiments the method of representing geometry may be indefinitely detailed as visual resolution is altered and still be sufficiently light as to be transportable over a WAN . Examples of this kind of 3D representation method include Metaballs and NURBs Nonuniform rational B splines .

The User accesses Virtual Environments to through the Information Broker a browser and the WAN . In some embodiments some or all of the Virtual Environments to require personal information about the User to provide access or full functionality. Thus every time the User s Avatar migrates from one Virtual Environment to to another the User is prompted to provide information before the migration may be completed. This repetitive prompting may seriously disrupt User s migration from one Virtual Environment to to another. The Information Broker makes decisions based upon trust levels for each Virtual Environment to and brokers personal information accordingly in order to make migration more seamless yet still maintain a high level of security with personal information.

Else if the Virtual Environment is not fully trusted a determination is made if the Virtual Environment is intermediately trusted in step . If the Virtual Environment is intermediately trusted the Information Broker may provide a limited access to personal information in step . Limited access may be regulated by comparing the level of trust in the Virtual Environment as determined in step compared to the sensitivity of the personal information. Alternatively the User s preferences may augment or supplant the sensitivity of the personal information for purposes of regulating limited access to personal information.

Else if the Virtual Environment is not intermediately trusted the Information Broker may restrict access to personal information in step .

Else if the event is found important then in step the User Account is queried for User activity. In step a determination is made if the User is logged in. If User is logged in then a message may be sent to the User within the Virtual Environment with an alert of the event in step .

Else if the user is not logged in a determination is made if the User is engaging in instant messaging in step . If User is engaging in instant messaging then an instant message may be sent to the User with an alert of the event in step .

Else if the User is not engaging in instant messaging a query may be made into the User s contact preference at step . In step a determination is made if the preferred contact method is email. If email is the preferred contact method then an email of the event alert may be sent to User at step .

Else if email is not the preferred contact method then at step a determination is made if the preferred contact method is text messaging. If text messaging is the preferred contact method then a text message of the event alert may be sent to User at step .

Else if text message is not the preferred contact method then at step a determination is made if the preferred contact method is an audio messaging. If audio messaging is the preferred contact method then an audio message of the event alert may be sent to User by phone or voicemail at step .

Else if audio message is not the preferred contact method then additional methods of User contact may be included or the process may end. Alternatively in some embodiments a default message system such as email may be utilized if a User is found to have no contact preference.

The Authentication System allows for numerous advantages over a non or minimalist identity environment. For instance Second User identification regardless of Virtual Environment allows for non player characters to maintain a persistent memory of the Second User across multiple Virtual Environments even when there have been changes in the Second User s Second Virtual Entity . This feature allows for more cohesion between Virtual Environments and for more believable non player characters.

Additionally identity and reputation information allows for heightened security and reduced risks when dealing with access issues and financial transactions. This security lends a sense of trust to e commerce which is currently lacking. Reputation information is vetted by the Identity Provider from a plurality of Virtual Entity Profile Data Sources to . These data sources provide a wealth of information including credit reports aliases commerce reputation social reputation assets access history etc.

Moreover identity may enable secure communications between Second User who are located in different Virtual Environments . Again this feature allows for more cohesion between Virtual Environments and is more rewarding and provides utility to the Second End User .

Furthermore reliable identity has strong repercussions for parental control and limiting the exposure of mature material to minors. Such screening for appropriateness and gate keeping functions may be utilized to protect business models and ward off litigation. For example such a system used in conjunction with a minor only chat room may eliminate older individuals from masquerading as a minor within the chat room. Such a system provides security to the legitimate user of the chat room and shields from liability associated with improper conduct on one s site. Another example is in the context of online dating. Individuals place themselves at a real risk when engaging in online dating or social networking. By verifying the identity of users and vetting their reputation much of the risk inherent to online dating may be eliminated. These and further application of the Authentication System will be discussed in greater detail below.

A Transom for the purposes of this invention is a program or hardware capable of communication and registration with the Identity Registrar . The Transom First Virtual Entity and Second Virtual Entity all exist within the exemplary Virtual Environment . The Transom First Virtual Entity Second Virtual Entity First User Second User Identity Registrar Merchant Processor User Agent and Virtual Entity Data Sources Sa Sb to Sv are all coupled to the WAN . The WAN enables connectivity of the components of the Authentication System .

The First User is the party gaining identity information on the Second User . First User owns a First Virtual Entity within an exemplary Virtual Environment . The First Virtual Entity may include an avatar establishment store automated shop keeper gate keeper access point chat room dating service virtual club or any additional virtual entity. Often the First Virtual Entity will include a business or service however anyone who desires identity and reputation information may be the First Virtual Entity . For example an individual may be a First User who owns an avatar which is the First Virtual Entity . This individual may wish to associate with particular types of people and thus desires reputation information from other virtual entities.

Within at least one of the Virtual Environments that the First Virtual Entity exists in the First User may own a Transom . As stated above the Transom for the purposes of this invention is a program or hardware capable of communication and registration with the Identity Registrar . In some embodiments the Transom registration may include a unique identifier. Additionally in some embodiments each Transom may be enabled to only run at one location within each Virtual Environments . Since many Virtual Environments include mapped based metaphors the location may then depend upon a virtual form of geolocation. Geolocation is the real world geographic location of an internet connected computer mobile device or website visitor based on the Internet Protocol IP address MAC address hardware embedded article production number embedded software number or other information. As such virtual geolocation would then be the virtual world geographic location of the particular Transom .

Within Virtual Environments that do not rely upon map based metaphors transoms may in some embodiments may be indexed by a matrices designating position within a data structure hierarchy. Alternatively in some embodiments the unique identifier in conjunction with the particular Virtual Environment may be utilized without a specific location element. This allows for mobile Transom or for a Transom that may exist in a non map based Virtual Environments . It should be noted that currently there are very few non map based Virtual Environments due to the intuitive nature of map metaphors and the added functionality that these map metaphors add to the Virtual Environments

In some embodiments the Transom may appear as an object within the Virtual Environment . Such graphical transoms may provide visual cues as to the security of the local as well as to the state of authentication of any nearby Avatars to or any virtual entity.

The Second User is a person who asserts her identity within at least one Virtual Environment via the actions of her Second Virtual Entity . The User may be required to register with the Identity Provider prior to authentication. End User may utilize a User Agent in order to access the Identity Provider and Relying Party through the Transom . The Second Virtual Entity often includes an Avatar to or any other virtual entity.

In some embodiments Identity Registrar may exist within the NOC . Alternatively Identity Registrar may in some embodiments be distributed within each of the Virtual Environments and may connect back to some central database for Second Virtual Entity profiles.

The Second User may be required to register with the Identity Registrar prior to authentication. Second User may utilize a User Agent in order to access the Identity Registrar . In some embodiments the User Agent may be a program such as a web browser. Additionally in some embodiments User Agent may be incorporated into the Customer Interface to . Second User may utilize her Second Virtual Entity to interact with the First User through the Transom and the First Virtual Entity . In some embodiments the Second User may be enabled to communicate directly with the First User and the Transom .

The First User s Transom in conjunction with Second Virtual Entity and Identity Registrar form a shared secret. A shared secret is any method for distributing a secret amongst a group of participants here three participants each of which is allocated a share of the secret. The secret can only be reconstructed when the shares are combined together individual shares are of no use on their own.

The Identity Registrar may in some embodiments utilize the Merchant Processor in order to provide automated payments and fee charging to a particular Second User account. For example the Identity Registrar may provide identity to the First User in order to confirm the Second User is able to have access to a particular portion of the Virtual Environment i.e. virtual white listing . Then if the Second User chooses to gain access to the particular portion of the Virtual Environment via her Second Virtual Entity the Second User s account may be automatically billed through the Merchant Processor . Before such a transaction the Second User may be notified that proceeding will cause in the incursion of charges. Such a system may be useful for virtual clubs and other establishments where only specific Second Users may be granted access and fees are associated with the access.

Identity Registrar may access the First User through the Transom which as discussed above has been registered with Identity Registrar with a unique identifier. The Identity Registrar may access Second User through the User Agent . Additionally in some embodiments Identity Registrar may access Virtual Entity Profile Data Sources to in order to create a searchable virtual entity gallery . In some embodiments the virtual entity gallery may be a web based search engine mashup which allows the public to search through avatar or virtual entity profile listings. Mashup is a website or application that combines content from more than one source into an integrated experience.

The virtual entity profile listings may in some embodiments include microformats which may provide ownership of the Avatar to or Second Virtual Entity and its profile data to be claimed by its Author through third party verification online reputation of the Second User to be reported by a third party licensing of the Avatar to or Second Virtual Entity and its profile data to be specified by a third party authority standard address email chat info to be downloaded or any additional desired functionality. Microformats are mark up that allow expression of semantics in HTML or XHTML web pages and as such programs can extract meaning from a web page that is marked up with microformats. Additionally in some embodiments the avatar gallery may update the Identity Registrar with authentication information as it becomes available.

In some embodiments the avatar gallery may enable searches of the Second User of a Second Virtual Entity . The searches may compile a one to many mapping of all of Second User s Second Virtual Entities . Such a search may for example be used to compile the Second User s reputation. Also in some embodiments searches may be preformed on a specific Second Virtual Entity profile or virtual entity profile. The specific searches may ignore the other Second Virtual Entity belonging to Second User . This has advantages since often a Second User will have distinct personalities for each Second Virtual Entity utilized by Second User . For example certain behaviors such as honoring ones word may vary greatly between Second Virtual Entities of the same Second User . If this form of behavior is pertinent to the search the behavioral history of the Second Virtual Entity may be of more interest than a broader search of Second User behaviors.

The Request Receiver is coupled to the Identity Verifier which identifies the Second User based upon the shared secret information. Identity Verifier couples to the Identity Information Collator and the Identity Reporter .

The Identity Information Collator vets the Second User to develop identity information. Identity Information utilized by the Identity Information Collator may include User Reputation data such as credit reports or criminal records and Virtual Entity Reputation such as peer ratings of the Second Virtual Entity . This information from the Identity Information Collator is used for outputting to the First User and for the generation of the virtual entity gallery. Identity Information Collator couples to the Identity Reporter and the Virtual Entity Gallery Generator .

The Identity Reporter outputs the identity verification along with vetted Identity Information . Output Data includes Collected Reputation and Generated Reputation .

The Virtual Entity Gallery Generator utilizes the vetted Identity Information  to compile a Virtual Entity Gallery . The Virtual Entity Gallery includes Virtual Entity Profiles to for each Second Virtual Entity belonging to the Second User as well as a Second User Profile . The profiles may be linked to form a comprehensive profile. These profiles may be searchable and include microformats for ready data retrieval and semantic analysis.

Then in step a request is initiated through the Transom . In some embodiments requests may be initiated by the Second User exclusively through the Transom . Alternatively in some embodiments both the Second User and the First User are capable of initiating a request through the Transom . In some of these embodiments requests initiated by Second User may be treated differently than requests initiated by First User . Moreover in some embodiments the type of request may further impact the treatment of the request. Moreover classes of First Users may be delegated wherein requests from different classes of First Users are given disparate treatment.

At step an offer is sent to and received by the Identity Registrar . The offer is typically conveyed through the Transom via the WAN to Identity Registrar . The offer contains information on both the Avatar to or Second Virtual Entity and Transom . After receiving the offer an inquiry is made as to whether Second User has been authenticated within the current Virtual Environments on a previous occasion in order to verify identity at step . If the Second User has been previously authenticated or identity is verified then the process proceeds to step where the Identity Registrar collates the vetted Identity Information . Then at step the Identity Registrar replies with identity information . The process then ends.

Otherwise if at step the Second User has not been previously authenticated within the current Virtual Environments then the process proceeds to step where Identity Registrar redirects Second User to the User Agent for authentication with Identity Registrar . Then at step an inquiry is made if Second User has an account with Identity Registrar . If Second User has an account with Identity Registrar then Second User is directed to login to her account at step .

Else if at step Second User does not have an account with Identity Registrar then the process progresses to step where an account for Second User is generated with the Identity Registrar . In some embodiments generation of the account may involve the input of at least one of a username password personal information Avatar to or Second Virtual Entity information and authentication preferences. In the case of a managed Persistent Avatar to the authentication preferences may be configured in the Avatar Authentication Preferencer . Additionally in some embodiments the Second User account may be updated by either Second User or Identity Registrar as new information becomes available to correct erroneous information or to change Second User authentication preferences. Then after Second User account generation the process proceeds to step where Second User is directed to login to her account. Then at step an inquiry is made whether to accept the response. If the response is denied then authentication fails at step . The process then ends with the Second User not being authenticated.

Otherwise if at step the response is accepted then at step the authentication is successful. The process then returns to step where an offer is sent to Identity Registrar . As stated earlier the offer is typically conveyed through the Transom via the WAN to Identity Registrar . The offer contains information on both the Avatar to or Second Virtual Entity and Transom . After receiving the offer an inquiry is made as to whether Second User has been authenticated within the current Virtual Environments on a previous occasion at step . Since Second User has been previously authenticated at step the process proceeds to step where the Identity Registrar collates the vetted Identity Information . Then at step the Identity Registrar replies with the identity information . The process then ends.

Otherwise if First User does not own a Transom registered with Identity Registrar a Transom identifier is generated at step . In some embodiments each Transom identifier is unique to its Transom . Then at step the Transom is deployed at a specific location within the Virtual Environment . The location of deployment may be dictated by First User or in some embodiments Identity Registrar dictates the deployment location. Then at step the Transom registers with Identity Registrar . Registration may include the unique identifier as well as the location information. In some embodiments transoms convey their identifier information and location information to Identity Registrar when making an offer. In this way the transoms provide their share of the shared secret during the Second User authentication. After registration of the Transom the process ends by progressing to step .

Otherwise if at step Second User does not touch the Transom then an inquiry is made if First User is initiating the request as part of a financial transaction at step . Such a request may be generated at any commercial juncture prior completion of sales. In some embodiments the request may be performed immediately prior finalization of a purchase or contract as to prevent reckless misuse of financial requests. If First User is initiating the request as part of a financial transaction then a transaction request is initiated at step . The process then ends by progressing to step .

Else if at step First User is not initiating the request as part of a financial transaction then an inquiry is made if First User is initiating the request as part of access verification at step . Such a request is intended to be initiated when the Second User is attempting to enter a restricted portion of the Virtual Environment or gain access to restricted information. Such request types have particular repercussions for parental controls and the restriction of mature material to a minor Second User . However the request additionally has uses where admission of certain individuals is desired and for the generation of a physical Virtual Private Network VPN of certain Second Users . If the First User is initiating the request as part of access verification then an access request is initiated at step . The process then ends by progressing to step .

Otherwise if at step First User is not initiating the request as part of access verification then a general request is initiated at step . The process then ends by progressing to step .

In some embodiments each Virtual Environment assigns a unique identifier to each Second Virtual Entity . Such unique Second Virtual Entity identifiers may be a key guide etc. In step the Transom sends unique identifiers of the Second User s Second Virtual Entity to the Identity Registrar . This constitutes the Second User s share of the shared secret.

In step the Transom sends the request type to the Identity Registrar . The request type may affect the response type depending upon the Second User s authentication preferences and the manner of account Second User has with Identity Registrar .

In step the Transom sends event identifiers to the Identity Registrar . In step the Transom sends product identifiers to the Identity Registrar . Event and product identifiers may be referenced with the Second User s account to determine the proper response by the Identity Registrar . For Example if the event involves an access fee to a club with identification and automated billing the specifics of the event and products offered may be compared with Second User preferences when determining what level of notification to the Second User is appropriate.

Then at step the Identity Registrar replies to Second User through the User Agent . Then at step an inquiry is made if the Virtual Environment fully supports the protocol in world. If the Virtual Environment supports the protocol in world the reply may be displayed in world at step . Such in world replies minimize the interference that redirecting has upon the Second User . The process then ends by proceeding to step . In some embodiments the User Agent may include a web based program in HTML. In such embodiments the reply is a URL that includes the generated nonce. Additionally any appropriate protocol such as HTML XML or WAP may be utilized by the User Agent as is well known by those skilled in the art. Moreover in some embodiments the User Agent may be capable of multiple protocols in order to maximize the number of in world replies.

Otherwise if at step the Virtual Environment does not support the protocol then the Second User is redirected outside the Virtual Environment at step . The process then ends by proceeding to step .

Otherwise if at step the nonce and the offer request do match then the response is accepted at step . Then at step an inquiry is made whether there is an existing profile for the Avatar to or Second Virtual Entity . If there is no existing profile for the Second Virtual Entity then a new Second Virtual Entity profile is generated at step . The new Second Virtual Entity profile updates the Second User account with the Identity Registrar . Then at step the public elements of the Second Virtual Entity profile are uploaded into the avatar gallery for public searches. The process then proceeds to step where an inquiry is made whether the request type is permitted.

Else if at step there is an existing profile for the Second Virtual Entity then the process proceeds to step where an inquiry is made whether the request type is permitted. The request types as delineated at step above may include in some embodiments an Second User request a financial request an access request and a general request. In some embodiments a Second User request will always be found permitted. Additional requests may be permitted according to the Second User s account s authentication preferences. Thus in theses embodiments the Second User is able to choose the level of anonymity desired only authenticating when desired or when First User requires it to complete a transaction however Second User may still refuse to authenticate . However Second Users may choose to authenticate in most situations in order to make transactions more efficient within the Virtual Environments . Moreover in some embodiments the Second User accounts may be required to authenticate under certain conditions as a term of the account. In such an embodiment free accounts may be required to authenticate to Identity Registrar deployed transoms for the purpose of presenting highly targeted advertisements. However premium pay accounts may leave authentication preferences entirely in the Second User s discretion.

If at step the request type is permitted then the process ends by proceeding to step . This signifies a successful authentication. Otherwise if at step the request type is not permitted then the process ends by proceeding to step . This signifies a failed authentication.

In step Identity Registrar identifies the Second User . Then in step Identity Registrar provides vetted reputation data regarding Second User . In this way the First User is able to properly grant access or develop trust in a financial transaction. The reputation data for the Second User may include data from many of the External Avatar or virtual entity Data Sources to . Additionally reputation information may provide many forms of reputation information such as personal honesty commerce history peer reviews and even credit ratings. In some embodiments the reputation data may include a trust matrix or trust web wherein the relationships between the Second User and the First User and the opinions of each individual within that chain of relationships to one another may be compiled and analyzed in order to generate a trust level for the First User to the Second User . For example if the First User knows and highly trusts an intermediate party and the intermediate party knows and highly trusts the Second User then the trust matrix will generate a high trust value for the First User to the Second User . Moreover with more relationship chains and trust data more refined trust matrices may be developed.

Additionally in some embodiments the trust matrix may be rule based. In these embodiments configurable rules may be utilized to hone the reputation information. For example the First User may be a merchant interested in transaction reputation. In this exemplary trust matrix rules as to which kind of relationship chains to be considered may be applied. In this case personal or social relationship chains may be ignored in the generation of the trust matrix to the Second User in favor of purely commercial relationship chains. Alternatively the rule may be less restrictive in that only the terminal relationship i.e. the last intermediate to the Second User is required to have a trust rating based upon commercial activity. Such a rule based system allows for the First User to generate their trust values off of what they believe is important while ignoring additional data that may not be relevant.

Additionally in some embodiments the vetted reputation information may include statistical abilities in order to profile characteristics. Statistics may be utilized to determine consistency between User s Identity Information and to predict additional characteristics. Such statistical analysis provides an independent authentication validation and has additional utility for targeted marketing. For example a User who states he is over 21 years of age yet has characteristics in the Identity Information more consistent with a minor may be identified utilizing these techniques. The individuals that are identified may then be subject to additional scrutiny or higher authentication standards. Additionally by determining a User s characteristics highly tailored advertisements may be generated.

In step the Identity Registrar records the time and location of the Second User authentication. Such records are useful in determining Second User trends trouble shooting and marketing research. After steps and are complete the process concludes.

The present invention may also be practiced with other techniques for providing an authentication for a Persistent Avatar or any virtual entity. For example it is possible to distribute the Authentication System across each of the Virtual Environments . In such a system only a central database of profiles are required which could then be accessed by the individual in world Authentication Systems .

In sum the present invention provides an authentication system for avatars for providing identity and reputation of the avatar s Second user thereby providing enhanced security parental control and trust in e commerce. Authentication system for avatars may be entirely software entirely hardware or a combination of software and hardware. The advantages of such an efficient system include ease of working within a multitude of virtual environments the creation of an avatar gallery efficiency and economy for the virtual environments and positive repercussions for targeted marketing and e commerce.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to exemplary embodiments modifications variations permutations and substitute equivalents may be made to the disclosed embodiments while remaining within the subject and spirit of the invention. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of the versions contained herein.

