---

title: Remote controlled studio camera system
abstract: A system for remotely controlling a camera is disclosed. The system includes five major subsystems; a first subsystem collocated with the camera; a second subsystem which serves as a gateway between the camera and the third subsystem; a third subsystem to remotely monitor the studio and control the camera; a fourth subsystem located at the destination of the video stream; and a fifth subsystem to receive and re-transmit a video control stream. This system allows the camera to be monitored and controlled by one location, while the primary video stream is transmitted to a different location. In some embodiments, the control video stream is a lower bandwidth signal than the primary video stream. Furthermore, the fifth subsystem is capable of receiving and re-transmitting control video streams from a plurality of cameras simultaneously. The second subsystem allows remote access to the first subsystem, such as via the third subsystem, based on approved credentials.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09661209&OS=09661209&RS=09661209
owner: VideoLink LLC
number: 09661209
owner_city: Newton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20161101
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 693 380 filed Apr. 22 2015 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 397 619 filed Feb. 15 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 019 372 issued Apr. 28 2015 which claims priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 444 194 filed Feb. 18 2011 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The flood of news financial political and other informational television programs has generated an ever increasing demand to utilize on air experts such as investment bankers lawyers and politicians. The presence of these experts adds credibility and an in depth analysis of a given topic that is not otherwise possible.

Traditionally for this interview to occur the expert is forced to travel to the television studio of the television show that is interested in interviewing this expert. This involves costs for the television program and an inconvenience for the expert. For example the expert would have to travel to the studio where they are prepared for the interview through hair and makeup and appear on camera. They then travel back to their office. Often experts appear without monetary compensation as the publicity associated with being on air is considered compensation. For many corporations the publicity is not worth the lost time and expense associated with visiting a studio. In addition such an arrangement does not allow for real time analysis of time sensitive events such as breaking news corporate mergers or political reaction as the experts need time and sufficient notice to travel to the studio.

To solve this problem remote control studios have been created. In such a studio there may be a camera a zoom lens system pan tilt capability an audio package studio lighting package and in some cases an interruptible fold back system to allow the experts to hear questions from an interviewer. In some cases a TV monitor a VCR or DVD player may also be present. As a further enhancement a backdrop system can be added using a large television or video monitor. Different images may be displayed on the screen to provide different backdrops including daytime and nighttime city skylines and company logos. These backdrops help give the remote studio a more professional look on air and are an advancement over the more conventional backgrounds previously used.

In the case of a remote control studio the video feed travels through a TV1 270 Mb or 1.5 Gb fiber optic circuit to the long distance video carrier POP. Typically the signal travels via fiber optic cable to the technical operations center although satellite transmission is also possible. The communication infrastructure required to transmit the video feed from the remote studio to the control location may be expensive. The fiber based long distance transmission model involves a high installation cost high monthly recurring cost and modest per usage cost.

In addition the control of the camera and studio is typically at a location different from that receiving the live video feed. This control location may have dedicated equipment in order to control the camera which may be very specialized. In addition such equipment may only be able to control one camera at a time. Therefore to control two cameras simultaneously it may be necessary to have two complete sets of control equipment.

It would be beneficial if the current one to one control of the remote camera could be eliminated. In addition it would be advantageous if less expensive means were available to deliver the video stream from the remote studio to the distribution site.

The problems of the prior art are addressed by the present system and method for remotely controlling a camera. The system includes five major subsystems a first subsystem or video source collocated with the camera a second subsystem or relay server which serves as a gateway between the camera and the third subsystem a third subsystem or control computer to remotely monitor the studio and control the camera a fourth subsystem or video target located at the destination of the video stream and a fifth subsystem to receive and re transmit a video control stream. This system allows the camera to be monitored and controlled by one location while the primary video stream is transmitted to a different location. In some embodiments the control video stream sent to the fifth subsystem is a lower bandwidth signal than the primary video stream. In some embodiments one or both video streams are transmitted over existing internet connections. Furthermore the fifth subsystem is capable of receiving and re transmitting control video streams from a plurality of cameras simultaneously. The second subsystem also allows remote access to the first subsystem such via the third subsystem based on approved credentials.

The first subsystem or video source includes an input to receive the output from camera . The subsystem also includes multiple outputs to control the various components within the studio. The camera may also include a zoom lens system and pan tilt controller. In addition to camera the studio may also include lighting equipment and other equipment. The subsystem also has a variety of outputs that are used to actuate the camera the lighting equipment and the other equipment. These outputs may be of various formats such as USB FireWire RS232 or any other protocol. The invention is not limited by the format used to communicate between the subsystem and studio components. Throughout this disclosure the terms first subsystem RC2 X and video source are used interchangeably to denote this first subsystem .

In addition to the interfaces between the subsystem and the studio components there are interfaces between the first subsystem and the second fourth and fifth subsystems . In some embodiments the communication between the various subsystems is conducted over the internet. In some embodiments there are one or more network interface cards NICs which are used to connect each subsystem to the internet. In some embodiments the NIC utilizes Ethernet to connect to the internet. In one embodiment a NIC is used to transfer the primary video stream to the fourth subsystem and is also used to transfer the control video stream to the fifth subsystem . In other embodiments separate NICs may be used to transmit the respective video streams.

As stated above the packets are preferably transmitted over Ethernet to the internet utilizing commercially available internet connectivity. For example dedicated trunk lines cable lines such as Comcast Internet fiberoptic lines such as Verizon FIOS or other means may be used to carry the packets to the internet. The bandwidth required for a high definition video stream over IP is about 6 Mbps so the preferred transport mechanism is capable of at least this upload bandwidth. In contrast the control video stream may be compressed such that it requires only about 800 kbps.

In some embodiments subsystem using first compression module second compression module or processing unit may also provide compression of previously recorded files for easier transmission.

In some embodiments the video stream output from the video capture component may be stored on a high capacity storage device located within the first subsystem . This storage device which may be a magnetic disk drive is used to store a high definition video stream which can be transmitted at a later date. The capacity of this storage device is not limited by the present invention and may be any suitable capacity based on cost and required functionality. In some embodiments the resolution and definition of the video stream stored in the storage device is greater than the primary video stream transmitted by NIC . This is because there are no time or bandwidth constraints on the delivery of this video stream. In some embodiments post processing is performed by the second subsystem on this high definition video stream. In some embodiments the high definition stream from the storage device is transmitted by a second NIC . In other embodiments the high definition stream is transmitted by the first NIC . While this recorded high definition video stream may be transmitted to any destination in some embodiments it is routed to the control computer an FTP server or to the relay server .

A second compression module may also be included in subsystem . This compression module may be implemented in the same manner as first compression module . In other embodiments it may be implemented differently. In the preferred embodiment the output of the second compression module is transmitted to the fifth subsystem . As such there is no need for a high definition stream. In fact the resolution is less important for this control video stream although it is important that the stream be delivered in real time. In some embodiments a QCIF 320 240 15 frames per second video stream is produced although other formats are within the scope of the invention. As with the first compression module the output from the second compression module is encapsulated using a network packet format such as Ethernet. In some embodiments a second NIC may be utilized to transmit the lower bandwidth control video stream. As described above any suitable transport mechanism may be used to transmit the control video stream to the internet. In other embodiments it is envisioned that NIC is used to transmit both streams. Audio is typically transmitted in the control video stream as well.

In addition to a data path the first subsystem also includes a control path where control information used to control the equipment in the studio is transmitted. In one embodiment the control and configuration information which can originate at the second subsystem or third subsystem enters the first subsystem via NIC . The control information is preferably encapsulated in a network protocol such as IP. The control information is un encapsulated and interpreted by the processing unit . A format is defined between the second subsystem and the first subsystem such that the contents of the control packets can be decoded by the processing unit .

In one embodiment an application programming interface API is defined between the subsystems such that the second subsystem transmits control information in the form of zoom in 1 unit or move the camera left 2 units . The processing unit interprets these commands and converts them to device specific commands for the particular piece of equipment being controlled. An advantage of this approach is that new equipment can be incorporated in the first subsystem without any modification to the code or protocols used by the other subsystems.

Once the processing unit has decoded the control information it can actuate the various components in the studio by sending signals via the interface . In some embodiments zoom is part of the integrated camera lens pan and tilt system. In other embodiments zoom is controlled by an external lens controller. Lighting is controlled via a remotely actuated relay or variable dimming system. In some embodiments the DMX lighting control protocol may be used. The actual protocols used to control these devices are an implementation decision and all such protocols are within the scope of the invention.

Each of the subsystems may include a processing unit to perform the functions needed by that particular subsystem. In some embodiments the processing unit may include an Intel based processor having one or more processor cores. In communication with the processor is a memory element adapted to store the instructions and data needed by the processor. In some embodiments the processor may execute an operating system such as a version of Linux or another suitable operating system which may be commercially available or written specifically for this application. In addition other software code and applications are also provided that enable the functionality described throughout this disclosure. In some cases the software components are unique and original. In other embodiments some of the software components may be Open Source. The invention is not limited by the method used to implement the recited functionality. Other resources such as input output components and high capacity storage devices may also be part of the processing unit.

Referring to the second subsystem is responsible for remotely controlling access to the subsystem which includes camera lighting equipment and studio equipment. The second subsystem also relays control information such as zoom tilt and pan controls from the third subsystem to the first subsystem . The second subsystem communicates with each of the other subsystems and contains much of the software that is required to operate the overall system as will be described in more detail below. It should be noted that second subsystem may also contain the system database such as a SQL server to provide functions such as transaction logging authentication management and configuration management. The second subsystem is also referred to as the relay server in this disclosure.

The third subsystem communicates with the second subsystem . As such the third subsystem includes a processing unit and a NIC. The third subsystem accesses the second subsystem and once authenticated is able to control one or more subsystems and their associated equipment. The third subsystem is also referred to as the control computer in this disclosure.

The fourth subsystem is the destination of the primary video stream delivered by the first subsystem . shows a block diagram of the components of the fourth subsystem . A NIC is provided to receive the encapsulated packets that were transmitted over the internet by the first subsystem . These packets are received and enter a decompression module which restores the original video stream as it was captured by camera . This decompression module may include a general purpose processing unit such as an Intel processor executing instructions adapted to decompress the received video stream. In other embodiments the module may be a dedicated hardware module. In some embodiments the video stream output from the module may be stored on a high capacity storage device located within the fourth subsystem . In other embodiments the video stream may be recorded prior to decompression. This storage device which may be a magnetic disk drive is used to store a high definition video stream which can be transmitted at a later date. The capacity of this storage device is not limited by the present invention and may be any suitable capacity based on cost and required functionality. The output of the module then exits the subsystem via connector and is then handed off to other video equipment such as a video router or television production switcher. This may be a BNC connector carrying an SDI signal. In this disclosure the terms fourth subsystem RC2 Z and video target are all used to represent the further subsystem .

In some embodiments the components in the first subsystem and the fourth subsystem may be identical with different software executing on each. In other embodiments subsystem could be a dedicated commercially available video decoder.

Referring to the fifth subsystem is responsible for receiving control video streams from the first subsystem . This subsystem contains a processing unit and one or more NICs which are adapted to receive control video streams from one or more first subsystems . The fifth subsystem then transmits a selected video control stream to control computer using a NIC.

Having described the major components of the subsystems the operation of the software in the system will now be described. As stated above the first subsystem interfaces to the camera and produces several video streams as outputs. One of those video streams typically the lower bandwidth stream is routed over the internet to the subsystem also known as the control stream server. The control stream server receives control video streams from a plurality of first subsystems . The video control streams are made available to the third subsystem . The second subsystem can grant access to one or more of these first subsystems to one or more third subsystems .

Referring to the process of initiating and controlling a studio will be described. First a third subsystem also known as a control computer accesses the relay server . The relay server serves a web page to the third subsystem . One such web page is shown in . In one embodiment the relay server requests a username and password from the operator at the third subsystem . In other embodiments other methods of authentication are used. In response to this the user at the control computer enters the requested credentials. Based on this the relay server may allow access to the system . In some embodiments different users may be given different levels of access. For example one user may only be allowed access to only one specific first subsystem . Other users may have access to a plurality of first subsystems . The system administrator may have access to all of the first subsystems . Similarly users may only have access to a subset of the video targets .

In this example it is assumed that the user has clicked view on the first video source. In response to this the relay server serves a new webpage which shows the current status of this video source. In this embodiment the webpage allows the user to select the RC2 Z system i.e. which fourth subsystem will receive the primary video stream from the selected first subsystem . On it is shown that the user has selected one of the video targets listed in . In addition to selecting the target of the video stream the user also selects the bit rate used for the transmission. In other words the user may select different levels of compression based on the available bandwidth. For example video sources and video targets which utilize high speed fiberoptic connections may be able to support higher datarates than those using lower speed internet connections. In some cases the users may pay different rates depending on the bandwidth consumed and this may affect their decision. The first subsystem also has the ability to output different format control video streams. In the default configuration the system may use a Flash video format to stream to and through the fifth subsystem . The Media Server field may have a default setting such that the video is transmitted to a main datacenter subsystem such as based on URL . In other embodiments the first subsystem can be configured to use a different specific subsystem based on this field. The Feed Name is a unique randomly created string per session that is used by the first subsystem to name the control video stream. The control video stream is then referenced by this name by the subsystems and .

Once the user has selected the video source i.e. the desired first subsystem and the video target i.e. the desired fourth subsystem the user clicks Connect . This action causes the relay server to implement the steps needed to associate these subsystems which each other. In some embodiments the relay server will prepare a configuration script which is sent to the selected first subsystem . This configuration script includes control information such as compression method and resolution and the desired video target. This desired video target may be expressed as an IP address or as a domain name. The relay server may also communicate with the desired video target or fourth subsystem and communicates the identity of the selected video source and optionally the format in which the video stream will be delivered.

The selected first subsystem also transmits a lower bandwidth video stream to the control stream server . Each lower bandwidth video stream is identified by a stream name. The control stream server then serves this lower bandwidth video stream to the control computer such as via a webpage. shows one such webpage that may be served to the control computer by the relay server . This web page contains an embedded control stream served by the control stream server . The embedded stream may be identified by its stream name. In this way the correct control stream video is served from the fifth subsystem to the control computer . This page allows for control of the studio including remote camera lighting and other features. The four arrows allow the remote user to move the camera up down left or right. The zoom feature allows the user to zoom the camera in or out as desired. Similarly the focus feature allows the user to adjust the focus of the camera . In addition other features such as lights gain audio levels and speaker operation may also be adjusted by the user through this webpage. It should be noted that a camera may have other functions which are not illustrated in . In some embodiments these functions are controlled without user input. In other embodiments additional controls may be added to the user interface shown in . In other words the inclusion of additional functionality in the user interface is within the scope of the invention and the invention is not limited to the embodiment shown in .

The present system may also allow the output from the camera to be recorded in addition to being streamed to the video target . As described above first subsystem and fourth subsystem may have high capacity storage devices capable of storing video stream. In some embodiments the user may wish to store the uncompressed video received from the camera at the first subsystem using device . To initiate this feature the user simply clicks on the Record X icon .

When the user has completed broadcasting the desired video stream he may simply disconnect from the video source and video target . Alternatively the relay server may be programmed to allocate a specific amount of time to the user and will automatically terminate the video stream when that duration of time has expired.

In the above example the lower bandwidth video stream from the video source is transmitted to the control stream server where it is served to the control computer . The control information is transmitted from control computer to video source via relay server . This allows the relay server to effectively manage all of the resources in the system and to allow the IP addresses of the video sources to remain hidden if desired. This scheme also allows the network administrator at the video source to know the exact IP address of the relay server which will be communicating with the video source .

However in other embodiments it may be desirable to allow the control computer to receive the lower bandwidth video stream directly from the video source as such with a dotted line in . This reduces the bandwidth requirements of the control stream server and also reduces the latency associated with monitoring and controlling the camera from the control computer . However such a scheme may require that a multitude of different IP addresses are able to access the video source . In some embodiments this may be unacceptable to the network administration. In other embodiments the network administrator may opt to leave the video source outside of the corporate firewall such that multiple IP addresses do not need to be permitted to pass through the firewall to the video source .

As stated above the user may have the option of recording the output of the camera in addition to transmitting it. FIG. shows a webpage that may be served to the control computer showing the video recordings that have been made on behalf of this user. As described above the original recording is preferably performed by the first subsystem where it can be recorded in high definition without regard for realtime bandwidth requirements.

The relay server contains the software necessary to implement this system. In some embodiments it includes a database such as a SQL database which may include the names and IP addresses of all video sources and video targets. In addition the database may have a list of registered users. This database may also have a method of associating the registered users with video sources and video targets which they are allowed to access. Therefore when a user is authenticated only the video sources and video targets that are associated with that user are displayed in the webpage shown in . It is noted that a particular video source or video target may be associated with more than one user if desired. The function of the relay server also allows it to monitor the usage of each user and therefore allows billing and usage data to be collected at this single point. In addition its central location allows the relay server to know the status of all video sources and video targets as well as any connections therebetween at all times. As mentioned above the central location of the relay server also allows it to mask the IP address of all video sources and video targets . Finally the relay server can also serve as the website serving web pages to remote control computers .

The control computers are designed to be remote devices and may be any suitable device such as a desktop PC laptop PC a tablet an iPad or a mobile smart phone which has internet access. As such a user may access the relay server from any location and control a remote video source as desired. In some embodiments the control computer may be the same device as the relay server control stream server or video target .

In some embodiments it is expected that the primary and lower bandwidth video streams also contain audio which is synchronized to the video. In many instances the person in the studio also referred to as the talent is responding to questions presented by an interviewer who is often not collocated with the talent. In other words the talent is sitting alone in a studio answering questions into a camera .

In the prior art to feed questions to the talent it was customary that the interviewer placed a phone call to the control room. The control room then placed a call to the remote studio and a telephone connected ear piece was placed in the talent s ear. When the interviewer asked a question into the phone line the question was heard in the talent s ear. Routing the call through the control room also allowed the control room to interrupt or give directions to the talent as necessary. For example the control room may provide directions and guidance to the talent before the interview took place. At other times the control room may interrupt the interviewer if necessary.

The present invention allows this mechanism for audio transmission to be utilized. In this scenario it is expected that the phone call would be placed to the user located at the control computer who would then call the talent at the video source . This arrangement allows the user at the control computer to hear the questions and interrupt as was done in the prior art. In this way the relay server is not involved in the transmission of the audio to the video source it is only responsible for the audio transmission leaving the video source .

In another embodiment the audio from the interviewer may be transmitted over the internet. In this embodiment the relay server may be the destination of the interviewer s questions. When initiating the session in addition to selecting the video source and the video target the user at the control computer may also select the return audio source. This audio source is then routed by the relay server to the selected video source over the internet in the same fashion as the control information is delivered. The first subsystem decodes the incoming audio signal and it is then output via an audio jack to the talent. In some embodiments this audio is also transmitted to the user via the webpage shown in . In some embodiments the control computer may also have a microphone allowing the user to speak instructions to the talent as well. In this case the relay server manages both audio streams i.e. the interviewer s questions and the user s instructions to the video source simultaneously. The talent would receive both streams either through the same earpiece or through two different earpieces. The handling of audio transmissions may be facilitated by the use of a VOIP Voice Over IP client operating on subsystem communicating with a VOIP server controlled by subsystem . In some embodiments the return audio routing may be performed by a processing system separate from the second subsystem .

The described system includes a plurality of video sources and video targets which are linked together through the use of a relay server. The relay server is designed to allow remote access by one or more simultaneous users. Each user is allowed to select a video source a video target and the format and resolution of the stream delivered therebetween. In addition the remote user using only the controls available on a keyboard mouse or a pointing device such as a USB based joystick or Wacom tablet is able to control the pan tilt focus and zoom of the remote camera.

In this way a distributed system can be created where customers can utilize local studios to allow interviews with experts to occur with limited involvement from the system owner. The customer simply books the studio and logs into the system to control the stream and select the video target. No additional assistance is required from the system operator. In contrast the state of the art requires that the system operator be available to remotely control the studio and set up the connections between the studio and the video target.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments described herein. Indeed other various embodiments of and modifications to the present disclosure in addition to those described herein will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from the foregoing description and accompanying drawings. Thus such other embodiments and modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the present disclosure. Further although the present disclosure has been described herein in the context of a particular implementation in a particular environment for a particular purpose those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that its usefulness is not limited thereto and that the present disclosure may be beneficially implemented in any number of environments for any number of purposes.

