---

title: Femtocell use for radio frequency network sweeps
abstract: Systems and methods that utilize femtocell access points (FAP) to perform radio frequency (RF) network sweeps are provided. In one embodiment, a method includes: predicting an availability of an access point (AP) to perform an RF network sweep; and determining that the access point is available to perform the RF network sweep based, at least, on a prediction that a mobile device on a white list for the access point is not likely to access the access point during a time interval associated with performing the RF network sweep. In another embodiment, a method includes: comparing a network quality characteristic for a wireless channel associated with a FAP with a network quality characteristic for a wired network communicatively coupled to the FAP. The network quality characteristics can be the same. The method can then include employing the comparison to determine to which network an impairment is attributable.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09655035&OS=09655035&RS=09655035
owner: AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, L.P.
number: 09655035
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160203
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 154 881 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 288 699 filed Jan. 14 2014 and entitled FEMTOCELL USE FOR RADIO FREQUENCY NETWORK SWEEPS which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 312 931 filed Dec. 6 2011 and entitled FEMTOCELL USE FOR RADIO FREQUENCY NETWORK SWEEPS which applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their respective entireties.

The disclosure relates to wireless communications and more particularly to systems and methods utilizing femtocell access points for radio frequency network sweeps.

Wireless service providers are observing an exponential growth in mobile communications due to both an increase in consumer demand and commercial requirements. Moreover to improve customer satisfaction wireless service providers aim to deliver a high quality service at any location to facilitate reliable and efficient mobile communications. To improve coverage and reduce dead zones wireless service providers can typically add front end equipment to realize effective bandwidth increases. In addition building based femtocell access points FAPs interfaced with a wired broadband network can be deployed to improve indoor wireless coverage and or to offload a mobility radio access network RAN operated by the wireless service provider.

Conventionally radio frequency RF propagation tools are employed to perform sweeps of cell site coverage areas. However such sweeps are often performed manually at ground or street level infrequently with limited geographic coverage and at times or under conditions that are not representative of actual network congestion or traffic.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more of the embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of some embodiments of the embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of the embodiments described herein. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the embodiments nor delineate any scope particular embodiments of the embodiments or any scope of the claims. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later. It will also be appreciated that the detailed description may include additional or alternative embodiments beyond those described in this summary.

In one embodiment a method can include predicting an availability of an access point AP to perform an RF network sweep and determining that the access point is available to perform the radio frequency network sweep if at least a prediction is made that a mobile device on a white list for the access point is not likely to access the access point during a time interval associated with performing the radio frequency network sweep. In some embodiments the AP can be an FAP.

In another embodiment a method can include comparing a network quality characteristic for a wireless channel associated with a femtocell access point with a network quality characteristic for a wired network communicatively coupled to the femtocell access point the network quality characteristic for the wireless channel and the network quality characteristic for the wired network being a same network quality characteristic and determining a network to which a performance impairment is associated based at least on the comparing.

In another embodiment a system can include a memory configured to store computer executable components and a processor configured to execute computer executable components stored in the memory. The computer executable component can include a prediction component configured to determine whether a mobile device on a white list of an access point is actively associated with the access point. The prediction component can also be configured to determine that the access point is available to perform a radio frequency network sweep if at least a determination is made that the mobile device on the white list of the access point fails to be actively associated with the access point. The prediction component can also be configured to determine that the access point fails to be available to perform a radio frequency network sweep if at least a determination is made that the mobile device on the white list of the access point is actively associated with the access point.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative embodiments of the embodiments. These embodiments are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the embodiments can be employed. Other features of the embodiments will become apparent from the following detailed description of the embodiments when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

One or more embodiments are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. It is evident however that the various embodiments can be practiced without these specific details and without applying to any particular networked environment or standard .

As used in this application the terms component module system interface platform service framework connector controller or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution or an entity related to an operational machine with one or more specific functionalities. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. As another example an interface can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application and or application programming interface API components.

Further the various embodiments can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or computer readable storage communications media. For example computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications can be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the various embodiments.

In addition the words example and exemplary are used herein to mean serving as an instance or illustration. Any embodiment or design described herein as example or exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments or designs. Rather use of the word example or exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Moreover terms such as user equipment mobile station mobile subscriber station access terminal terminal handset mobile device and or terms representing similar terminology can refer to a wireless device utilized by a subscriber or user of a wireless communication service to receive or convey data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream. The foregoing terms are utilized interchangeably herein and with reference to the related drawings. Likewise the terms access point AP base station BS Node B evolved Node B eNode B home Node B HNB and the like are utilized interchangeably in the application and refer to a wireless network component or appliance that transmits and or receives data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream from one or more subscriber stations. Data and signaling streams can be packetized or frame based flows.

Furthermore the terms user subscriber customer consumer and the like are employed interchangeably throughout unless context warrants particular distinctions among the terms. It should be appreciated that such terms can refer to human entities or automated components supported through artificial intelligence e.g. a capacity to make inference based at least on complex mathematical formalisms which can provide simulated vision sound recognition and so forth.

Embodiments described herein can be exploited in substantially any wireless communication technology including but not limited to Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Enhanced General Packet Radio Service Enhanced GPRS Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Third Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Speed Packet Access HSPA Zigbee and other 802.XX wireless technologies and or legacy telecommunication technologies. Further the term femto and femtocell are used interchangeably and the terms macro and macrocell are used interchangeably.

Systems and methods described herein relate to utilizing FAPs to perform RF network sweeps. The FAP can be employed for such sweeps if the FAP is determined to be available. The FAP is considered available to perform the network sweep when it is unlikely that a mobile device on the white list of the FAP will access the FAP. As such systems and methods of predicting when the FAP is available are provided. In various embodiments predictions can be made based on a number of different factors including but not limited to the geographic proximity of the mobile device to the FAP whether the mobile device is using the public cell site associated with the FAP the historical usage patterns of the mobile device and or whether the mobile device is likely to enter a geographical region defined by a time vector having a length associated with the time duration for the particular RF network sweep to be performed.

Employing FAPs for RF network sweeps can identify coverage issues collisions and or coverage by various different telecommunications carriers. Additionally using the FAP can enable RF network sweeps to be performed during peak traffic hours and or can cover areas typically unable to be monitored. Further macrocell network managers can gain a better understanding of the conditions on the ground impacting customers as issues arise.

The systems and methods utilize prediction to improve the likelihood of non intrusive and non disruptive use of the FAP for RF network sweeps. Accordingly conflicts with E911 and the personal convenience of the mobile device users can be minimized thereby also improving quality of service.

The FAP allocation component can predict whether the FAP is available for use to perform an RF network sweep. One or more methods for prediction can be employed by the FAP allocation component to evaluate whether the FAP can be utilized without being intrusive and or disruptive to the operations between the FAP and the one or more mobile devices on the white list of the FAP . As such the FAP allocation component can determine a likelihood of the one or more mobile devices attempting to access or accessing the FAP while the FAP is being used as an RF network probe. If the FAP allocation component predicts that the FAP is available for use as an RF network probe in some embodiments the FAP allocation component can send information to the controller .

The controller can be configured to receive information from and transmit information to the FAP allocation component and the FAP . For example the controller can be configured to receive information indicating that the FAP allocation component predicts that the FAP is available for use in performing an RF network sweep and can transmit a command to the FAP commanding the FAP to perform the RF network sweep.

By way of example the controller can be configured to authorize use of the FAP for performing the RF network sweep during a selected time interval corresponding to the time interval for the RF network sweep. Similarly the controller can be configured to block use of the FAP for performing the RF network sweep during a selected time interval identified as a time interval during which the mobile device is likely to access the FAP .

In various embodiments the controller can determine the type of RF network sweep to perform and or one or more parameters of the network sweep. The controller can transmit such information to the FAP to facilitate performance of the RF network sweep.

The FAP can be configured to provide access point services to one or more mobile devices on the white list of the FAP . Additionally the FAP can be configured to perform an RF network sweep on a mobility network within a selected geographical proximity to the FAP . Accordingly the FAP can be configured to operate as an RF network probe for the mobility network. As such an FAP which can be located in a residence or a business location can serve as a monitoring tool for informing a telecommunications carrier of the status of wireless network coverage in the geographic proximity of the FAP . Specifically in some embodiments the FAP can be configured to provide measurement data for the wireless network. In some embodiments the measurement data can be indicative of one or more network quality characteristics including but not limited to network latency packet loss forward error correction FEC delay e.g. the time that it takes to do the proper FEC unavailable seconds e.g. the period of time during which there is no communication with the FAP and or a time and or frequency associated with the FAP being unreachable.

The BS can be configured to transmit and receive information between the controller FAP allocation component FAP and or core network .

The core network can be or include a wired network to which the FAP is communicatively coupled in some embodiments. For example the core network can include a broadband landline to which the FAP is communicatively coupled. As another example the core network can be or include one or more public cell sites such as that associated with BS . For example the core network can include the public cell site to which a mobile device on the white list of the FAP would be communicatively coupled immediately upon leaving the wireless channel associated with the FAP .

The FAP and FAP allocation component will now be described in more detail with reference to the remaining figures. Turning first to illustrates an example FAP e.g. FAP that can be employed to facilitate RF network sweeps. illustrates an example FAP allocation component that can facilitate utilizing an FAP for RF network sweeps. The FAP can include one or more of the structure and or functionality of the FAP described with reference to . Similarly the FAP allocation component can include one or more of the structure and or functionality of the FAP allocation component described with reference to .

As shown in the FAP can include a communication component a measurement component data storage a memory and or a processor . In various embodiments one or more of the communication component measurement component data storage memory and or processor can be electrically and or communicatively coupled to one another to perform one or more functions described herein.

The communication component can be configured to transmit and or receive signals to and or from mobile devices on the white list of the FAP . The communication component can also be configured to transmit and or receiving information for testing one or more network quality characteristics of the wireless channel associated with the FAP . For example the communication component can be configured to transmit and or receive information while the FAP performs an RF network sweep. The measurement component can be configured to measure the one or more network quality characteristics of the wireless channel. The measurements can be obtained during an RF network sweep by the FAP .

The data storage can be configured to store information transmitted to received by and or processed by the FAP . In some embodiments the FAP can store the measurement information obtained during the RF network sweep. In various embodiments the FAP can be configured to store a white list identifying one or more mobile devices permitted to access the FAP .

Processor can perform one or more of the functions described herein with reference to the FAP . The memory can be a computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions and or information for performing the functions described herein with reference to the FAP .

Turning to the FAP allocation component can include a communication component a prediction component a network identification component data storage a memory and or a processor . The communication component prediction component network identification component data storage memory and or processor can be electrically and or communicatively coupled to one another to perform one or more functions described herein.

Processor can perform one or more of the functions described herein with reference to the FAP allocation component . The memory can be a computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions and or information for performing the functions described herein with reference to the FAP allocation component .

The communication component can be configured to transmit and or receive signals to and or from the controller the FAP and or the BS . For example the signals can be indicative of a prediction of whether the FAP is available for use as an RF network probe. In some embodiments the communication component can be configured to attempt to locate the one or more mobile devices on the white list of the FAP in order to generate a prediction as to the availability of the FAP . illustrates an embodiment of data storage of the FAP allocation component . With reference to the communication component can access the white lists in the data storage in order to determine the identity of the mobile devices on the white list.

Turning back to the prediction component can be configured to predict whether the FAP is available to perform an RF network sweep. As shown in in the embodiment shown the prediction component can include a likelihood calculation component a call versus geography pattern component a memory and or a processor . The likelihood calculation component call versus geography pattern component memory and or processor can be electrically and or communicatively coupled to one another to perform one or more of the functions of prediction component or prediction component . One or more of the structure and or the functionality described with reference to prediction component can be as described with reference to prediction component and vice versa .

The likelihood calculation component can be configured to compute the likelihood that an FAP is available or unavailable. For example the likelihood calculation component can be configured to perform complex probability and statistics based operations to calculate the likelihood of the FAP being available or unavailable. The calculation can be based on information detected estimated and or determined about the one or more mobile devices on the white list of the FAP as described with reference to the systems and methods herein.

In one embodiment the prediction component can be configured to determine whether a mobile device on a white list of the FAP is actively associated with the access point. The prediction component can make such a determination when the communication component is able to locate the mobile device.

The mobile device can be considered to be actively associated with the FAP if the mobile device is currently accessing the FAP e.g. accessing the FAP for an active call and or if the mobile device is located within a particular geographic proximity to the FAP e.g. located within a fairly close distance to the FAP such as within 20 feet of the FAP . If the mobile device is accessing the FAP and or close to the FAP a prediction can be made that the mobile device is likely to access the FAP if an RF network sweep is performed and therefore network sweeps can be blocked on the FAP during the time that the mobile device is actively associated with the FAP . To the contrary the prediction component can be configured to determine that the FAP is available to perform the RF network sweep based on a determination that the mobile device is not actively associated with the FAP .

In some embodiments the communication component is unable to locate a mobile device on the white list for the FAP . For example the communication component may be unable to locate the mobile device if the mobile device is offline and or due to poor RF conditions.

If the communication component is unable to locate the mobile device or in some embodiments if the communication component is unable to locate each mobile device on the white list for the FAP the prediction component can perform prediction by determining the likelihood that the mobile device will pop up in an area covered by the FAP and access the FAP .

For example the prediction component can analyze the historical usage information for the mobile device. The historical usage information can be stored at of data storage . The historical usage information can include information such as the typical times that the mobile device accesses the FAP . If the time that the RF network sweep is desired to be performed overlaps with a time that the mobile device has historically accessed the FAP the FAP can be blocked from usage as an RF network probe. If the time that the RF network sweep is desired does not overlap with a time that the mobile device has historically accessed the FAP the FAP can be authorized for usage as an RF network probe.

In some embodiments the call versus geography pattern component can aid in the prediction of the availability of the FAP by utilizing a time vector approach. By way of example but not limitation in some embodiments the call versus geography component can identify a time vector having a length corresponding to the time to perform a particular RF network sweep. In various embodiments time vector information can be stored in of data storage . The time to perform the RF network sweep can be stored as the RF network sweep duration information of data storage . The call versus geography pattern component can be configured to identify a geographic region within which the mobile device will access the FAP . The geographic region can be a function of the time vector. For example a circular geographic region can have the time vector as a radius.

The call versus geography pattern component can be also configured to determine the average call duration for the mobile device. With reference to the average call duration information for the mobile device can be stored in data storage . The call versus geography pattern component can be also configured to estimate a travel speed of the mobile device. The travel speed of the mobile device can be estimated in any number of ways including but not limited to estimating an average travel speed e.g. 50 miles per hour based on information about historical travel speed estimations e.g. travel speed information for the mobile device or in embodiments wherein the communication component can locate the mobile device based on the speed limit in the geographical area in which the mobile device is located. As such the determination of the likelihood can be based on the average call duration for the mobile device the travel speed and the time duration for completion of the RF network sweep. The time duration for performing the RF network sweep can differ depending on the type of testing to be performed. Such information can be stored as the RF network sweep duration information in data storage .

In some embodiments the call versus geography pattern component can aid in the prediction of the availability of the FAP by utilizing an analysis of whether the mobile device is currently associated with the public cell site for the FAP . For example in some embodiments the communication component is further configured to determine whether the mobile device is currently associated with a public cell site for the FAP . Further the call versus geography pattern component can be configured to determine whether the mobile device is currently associated with the public cell site for the FAP . If the mobile device is currently associated with the public cell site the FAP can be determined to be unavailable. To the contrary in some embodiments if the mobile device is associated with another public cell site and is therefore further from the FAP the FAP can be determined to be available.

The FAP allocation component can compare the performance of the wired network and the wireless channel to delineate the root cause of impairments in the service provided by the FAP. For example the FAP allocation component can include a network identification component to perform one or more functions for delineating the root cause of the impairments. The network identification component can include one or more of the structure and or functionality of network identification component described with reference to .

Turning now to in some embodiments network identification component can include a communication component a comparison component a memory and or a processor . The communication component comparison component memory and or processor can be electrically and or communicatively coupled to one another to perform one or more functions of the network identification component .

In various embodiments the communication component can be configured to receive information indicative of a measurement of one or more network quality characteristics for the wireless channel associated with the FAP and for the wired network that supports the FAP . In various embodiments with reference to the information can be stored as network information in the data storage of the FAP allocation component .

The comparison component can be configured to compare the network quality characteristics for the wireless channel and the wired network. The network quality characteristics can be the same for both the wireless channel and the wired network in some embodiments such that the comparison compares the same parameters. For example the latency of the wireless channel and the wired network can be compared. In some embodiments the network quality characteristics can be obtained for the wireless channel based on the RF network sweep performed by the FAP as described herein. Accordingly the comparison component can determine whether an impairment is attributed to the wireless channel of the FAP or from the wired network.

Processor can perform one or more of the functions described herein with reference to any of the systems and or methods disclosed. The memory can be a computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions and or information for performing the functions described herein with reference to any of the systems and or methods disclosed.

In various embodiments system can be configured as follows. The FAP allocation component can be configured to perform prediction as follows. The FAP allocation component can determine whether a mobile on a white list of an FAP is using the FAP or near the FAP .

If the mobile device is not near the FAP e.g. not within 10 20 and or 50 feet and not using the FAP the FAP allocation component can be configured to transmit information to the controller to control the FAP to perform an RF network sweep.

In some embodiments the FAP allocation component can determine whether the mobile device is on the public cell site that the mobile device would access if the FAP were not in the home or residence. By way of example but not limitation if the FAP is at a home of a customer the public cell site for the home of the customer can be identified and a determination can be made as to whether the mobile device is on the public cell site. If the mobile device is on such public cell site the mobile device is in fairly close proximity to the FAP and there is a high likelihood that the mobile device could attempt to access the FAP . In such case the FAP allocation component can determine that the FAP is not available to perform the RF network sweep.

In another embodiment prediction can be performed based on the FAP allocation component determining a time vector and defining a geographic region as a function of the time vector. For example a circle can be defined as the geographic region with the time vector as the radius or diameter in some embodiments of the circle. The time vector can be lengthened or shortened depending on how long a mobile that is away from the residence or location at which the FAP is located must continue to be away from the FAP . As such if the RF network sweep will take a longer amount of time the time vector can be lengthened and if the RF network sweep will take a shorter amount of time the time vector can be shortened.

A determination can be made as to whether the mobile device is within the geographic region defined by the time vector. Average call duration for the mobile device and the estimated travel time to arrive back at the FAP can be determined using an estimated travel speed .

A comparison of the time of arrival can be made with the time to complete the FAP RF network sweep to determine if the mobile device is likely to arrive back at or near the FAP before the RF network sweep is completed.

If a determination is made that the mobile device is likely to arrive back at or near the FAP before the RF network sweep is completed the controller can block the use of the FAP for the RF network sweep. If a determination is made that the mobile device is not likely to arrive back at or near the FAP before the RF network sweep is completed the controller can authorize the use of the FAP for the RF network sweep. The controller can authorize or block the use of the FAP dynamically as conditions change with the mobile devices on the white list for the FAP .

If the mobile device cannot be located the FAP allocation component can analyze the history of usage by the mobile device to determine likelihood that the mobile device will pop up in an area covered by the FAP and access the FAP . The history of usage information can be stored as at data storage . The history of usage for a mobile device can be compared with the time of day week or month that an RF network sweep is desired to be performed. If the time of day week or month for the network sweep corresponds to or overlaps with the time of day week or month that the mobile device typically accesses the FAP the controller can block the use of the FAP . Similarly if the time of day week or month for the network sweep corresponds to or overlaps with the time of day week or month that the mobile device does not typically access the FAP the controller can block the use of the FAP .

For simplicity of explanation the methodologies are depicted and described as a series of acts. It is to be understood and appreciated that the embodiments is not limited by the acts illustrated and or by the order of acts for example acts can occur in various orders and or concurrently and with other acts not presented and described herein. Furthermore not all illustrated acts can be required to implement the methodologies in accordance with the disclosed subject matter. In addition those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that the methodologies could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states via a state diagram or events. Additionally it should be further appreciated that the methodologies disclosed herein are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to computers.

Turning first to at method can include predicting an availability of an AP to perform an RF network sweep. At method can include determining that the AP is available to perform the RF network sweep if at least a prediction is made that a mobile device on a white list for the AP is not likely to access the AP during a time interval associated with performing the RF network sweep. For example a time interval for performing an RF network sweep can be a designated time period e.g. one hour 30 minutes four hours . In some embodiments as described herein the AP can be an FAP.

Predicting the availability of the AP to perform the RF network sweep can include determining a likelihood of the mobile device on the white list accessing the AP during the time interval associated with performing the RF network sweep. In various embodiments the white list of the AP can include one or more mobile devices authorized to access the AP. As such accessing the white list for the AP can provide information regarding which mobile devices may attempt to access the AP if the AP is scheduled to perform an RF network sweep. Accordingly to reduce the chances that the mobile devices will attempt to access the AP and the AP is busy performing an RF network sweep the likelihood of a mobile device on the white list accessing the AP can be determined.

The prediction of the availability of the AP can be based at least on the determining the likelihood of the mobile device on the white list accessing the AP during the time interval associated with performing the RF network sweep. For example in various embodiments if the mobile device is currently accessing the AP when the determination is being made the likelihood can be determined to be greater than the selected threshold. In some embodiments the likelihood can be based at least on whether the mobile device is located within a selected geographic proximity to the AP. If the mobile device is within a selected geographic proximity to the AP and or if there is a particular likelihood that the mobile device will move into the selected geographic proximity during the time interval for the RF network sweep the likelihood of the mobile device accessing the AP can be determined to be greater than the selected threshold.

In some embodiments information can be transmitted to a controller of the AP based on a determination that the AP is available to perform the RF network sweep. The transmission to the controller can include information commanding the controller transmitting a command to the AP to perform the RF network sweep.

Turning to predicting the availability of the AP to perform the RF network sweep can be performed in some embodiments as follows. At method can include determining a location of the mobile device. At method can include determining whether the location of the mobile device is within a selected geographic proximity to the AP. If the mobile device is within a geographic proximity to the AP a prediction can be made that the mobile device is likely to attempt to access the AP and the AP can be blocked and not employed for RF network sweeps.

Turning now to predicting the availability of the AP to perform the RF network sweep can be performed in some embodiments as follows. At method can include determining whether the mobile device is unable to be located. For example the mobile device may be unable to be located because the mobile device is offline and or due to RF conditions.

At method can include determining a likelihood that the mobile device will access the AP during the time interval for performing the RF network sweep. The determination can be based at least on examining the mobile device call versus geography pattern of the mobile device. In some embodiments the mobile device call versus geography pattern can include information indicative of geographical locations of the mobile device during calls at selected time periods. In some embodiments the call versus geography pattern can include information indicative of a public cell site that the mobile device is currently accessing as discussed with reference to below. In some embodiments the call versus geography pattern can include information indicative of whether the mobile device is in a geographic region defined as a function of time vector determined based on the RF network sweep to be performed as discussed with reference to below.

Turning now to predicting the availability of the AP to perform the RF network sweep can be performed in some embodiments as follows. At method can include determining a selected time of day for the AP to perform the RF network sweep. At method can include determining whether a history of usage of the mobile device at the AP indicates that the mobile device is likely to pop up in an area covered by the AP and access the AP during the selected time of day. The determination can be based at least on the history of usage of the mobile device at the AP. By way of example but not limitation the history of usage can include information such as the time of day week and or month that the mobile device has access the AP mobile device call durations the geographic location from which the mobile device typically makes calls and or the history of a mobile device moving frequently between being connected to a public cell site for the AP and the AP within a particular time duration e.g. the mobile device moving between the public cell site and the AP within a short time period such as 10 minutes for example .

Turning now to predicting the availability of the AP to perform the RF network sweep can be performed in some embodiments as follows. At method can include identifying a public cell site associate with the AP. For example the public cell site associated with the AP can be the public cell site for the geographic area in which the AP is located.

At method can include determining whether the mobile device is currently accessing the public cell site associated with the AP. For example if the mobile device is accessing the public cell site associated with the AP the likelihood of the mobile device accessing the AP can be greater than the likelihood if the mobile device is not accessing the public cell site associated with the AP because the mobile device may be in close geographic proximity to the AP. As such the mobile device can pop up on the AP with greater likelihood than if the mobile device is not accessing the public cell site associated with the AP. For example if a user of the mobile device walks out of a residence covered by the AP and begins to utilize the public cell site the likelihood that the user will walk back into the residence and begin using the AP is greater than if the mobile device is at a distance from the public cell site and therefore is not utilizing the public cell site associated with the AP.

Turning now to predicting the availability of the AP to perform the RF network sweep can be performed in some embodiments as follows. At method can include assigning a time vector to the mobile device. The length of the time vector can correspond to the time interval associating with performing the RF network sweep. For example if the time to perform the RF network sweep is short the time vector can be short while if the time to perform the RF network sweep is long the time vector can be long to allow more time to perform the RF network sweep.

At method can include identifying a geographical region defined by the time vector. In some embodiments the geographical region can be a circle having a radius approximately equivalent in length to the time vector. The geographic region can be a region around the AP within which the mobile device will access the AP if the mobile device has a call in progress.

At method can include estimating a time of arrival of the mobile device at the location of the geographic region the geographic region including a location of the AP the estimating being based at least on average call duration information for the mobile device and an estimated speed of travel of the mobile device.

At method can include determining the likelihood that the mobile device will arrive within the geographic region of the AP and have an active call in progress. The likelihood can be determined based on the average call duration information and the estimated speed of travel of the mobile device when compared with the current location of the mobile device the amount of time that the current call has been in progress.

At method can include determining a network to which performance impairment is associated based at least on the comparing in . The method can determine whether a problem is associated with the wired network or the wireless channel in various embodiments. For example the performance of the broadband landline network supporting the femtocell can be correlated with the RF network performance to allow for better delineation of the root cause of one or more impairments to user service provided by the FAP.

Depending on the broadband network for example although not shown the method can include distinguishing between whether a known problem is associated with the FAP or the landline network. For example a problem could be associated with an RL from the FAP or with the local area network LAN . As another example the method can evaluate a characteristic such as network latency for example from a router or modem associated with a landline network. The method can include determination of the source of the problem e.g. wired network or wireless network . As such impairments can be more efficiently addressed.

In some embodiments although not shown method can also include predicting an availability of the FAP to perform a RF network sweep. The prediction can be performed including one or more of the methods and or .

The FAP can then be used to perform the RF network sweep based at least on a prediction that the FAP is available to perform the RF network sweep. The method can also include obtaining the network quality characteristic for the wireless channel based at least on the RF network sweep.

The systems and methods disclosed and claimed herein can be employed in telecommunications systems or by telecommunications companies that offer macrocell femtocell and or microcell service. In various embodiments the systems and methods can be employed by equipment and system vendors to the telecommunications industry as part of a product bundle. Further while the embodiments described herein can be facilitated through the use of FAPs in various embodiments the embodiments can also be facilitated employing picocells microcells and or macrocells. All such embodiments are envisaged.

Within macrocell coverage cell a femtocell served by a FAP can be deployed. A femtocell typically can cover an area that can be determined at least in part by transmission power allocated to FAP path loss shadowing and so forth. Coverage area typically can be spanned by a coverage radius that ranges from 20 to 50 meters. Confined coverage area can be generally associated with an indoors area or a building which can span about 5000 sq. ft. Generally FAP typically can service a number e.g. a few or more wireless devices e.g. subscriber station within confined coverage area . In an embodiment FAP can integrate seamlessly with substantially any packet switched PS based and circuit switched CS based network for instance FAP can integrate into an existing 3GPP Core via conventional interfaces like Iu CS Iu PS Gi and or Gn interfaces. In another embodiment FAP can exploit high speed downlink packet access in order to accomplish substantive bitrates. In yet another embodiment FAP has a location area code LAC and or routing area code RAC that can be different from the underlying macrocell network. These LAC and RAC can be used to identify subscriber station location for a variety of reasons most notably to direct incoming voice and data traffic to appropriate paging transmitters.

As a subscriber station e.g. UE can leave macrocell coverage e.g. cell and enters femtocell coverage e.g. area as illustrated in environment . A carrier frequency scan can be triggered by the UE which can detect the FAP . UE can attempt to attach to the FAP through transmission and reception of attachment signaling effected via a forward link FL reverse link RL in an embodiment the attachment signaling can include a Location Area Update LAU and or Routing Area Update RAU . Attachment attempts can be a part of procedures to ensure mobility so voice calls and sessions can continue even after a macrocell to femtocell transition or vice versa. It is noted that UE can be employed seamlessly after either of the foregoing transitions. Femtocell networks are also designed to serve stationary or slow moving traffic with reduced signaling loads compared to macrocell networks. A femtocell service provider e.g. an entity that commercializes deploys and or utilizes FAP therefore can be inclined to minimize unnecessary LAU RAU signaling activity at substantially any opportunity to do so and through substantially any available means. It is noted that substantially any mitigation of unnecessary attachment signaling control can be advantageous for femtocell operation. Conversely if not successful UE generally can be commanded through a variety of communication means to select another LAC RAC or enter emergency calls only mode. It can be appreciated that this attempt and handling process can occupy significant UE battery and FAP capacity and signaling resources as well.

When an attachment attempt is successful UE can be allowed on femtocell and incoming voice and data traffic can be paged and routed to the subscriber station through the FAP . Data traffic can be routed through a backhaul broadband wired network backbone e.g. optical fiber backbone twisted pair line T1 E1 phone line DSL or coaxial cable . In some embodiments an FAP can rely on a backhaul network backbone for routing and paging and for packet communication substantially any quality of service can handle heterogeneous packetized traffic. Namely packet flows established for wireless communication devices e.g. terminals and served by FAP and for devices served through the backhaul network pipe . To improve the likelihood of positive subscriber experience or perception FAP can maintain a high level of throughput for traffic e.g. voice and data utilized on a mobile device for one or more subscribers while in the presence of external additional packetized or broadband traffic associated with applications e.g. web browsing data transfer e.g. content upload and the like executed in devices within the femtocell coverage area e.g. area or area .

To provide further context for various embodiments of embodiments described herein illustrate an example wireless communication environment with associated components for operation of a femtocell and a block diagram of an example embodiment of a FAP which can facilitate utilizing an FAP for RF network sweeps.

Wireless communication environment includes two wireless network platforms i A macrocell network platform that serves or facilitates communication with user equipment via a macrocell radio access network RAN . It should be appreciated that in cellular wireless technologies e.g. 3GPP UMTS high speed packet access HSPA 3GPP LTE 3GPP ultra mobile broadband UMB macrocell network platform can be embodied in a Core Network. ii A femtocell network platform which can provide communication with UE through a femtocell RAN linked to the femtocell network platform via backhaul pipe s wherein backhaul pipe s are substantially the same a backhaul link . It should be appreciated that femtocell network platform typically offloads UE from macrocell network once UE attaches e.g. through macro to femtocell handover or via a scan of channel resources in idle mode to femtocell RAN.

A RAN can include one or more base stations or APs and its associated electronic circuitry and deployment cell site s in addition to a wireless radio link operated in accordance with the base station s . Accordingly macrocell RAN can comprise various coverage cells like cell while femtocell RAN can comprise multiple FAPs. As mentioned above deployment density in femtocell RAN can be substantially higher than in macrocell RAN .

Generally both macrocell and femtocell network platforms and can include components e.g. nodes gateways interfaces servers or platforms that facilitate both PS and CS traffic e.g. voice and data and control generation for networked wireless communication. For example macrocell network platform includes CS gateway node s which can interface CS traffic received from legacy networks like telephony network s e.g. public switched telephone network PSTN or public land mobile network PLMN or a SS7 network . Moreover CS gateway node s interfaces CS based traffic and signaling and gateway node s .

In addition to receiving and processing CS switched traffic and signaling gateway node s can authorize and authenticate PS based data sessions with served e.g. through macrocell RAN wireless devices. Data sessions can include traffic exchange with networks external to the macrocell network platform like wide area network s WANs it should be appreciated that local area network s LANs can also be interfaced with macrocell network platform through gateway node s . Gateway node s can generate packet data contexts when a data session is established. It should be further appreciated that the packetized communication can include multiple flows that can be generated through server s . Macrocell network platform also includes serving node s that convey the various packetized flows of information or data streams received through gateway node s . Server s can include one or more processor configured to confer at least in part the functionality of macrocell network platform . To that end the one or more processor can execute code instructions stored in memory for example.

In example wireless environment memory stores information related to operation of macrocell network platform . Information can include business data associated with subscribers market plans and strategies e.g. promotional campaigns business partnerships operational data for mobile devices served through macrocell network platform service and privacy policies end user service logs for law enforcement . Memory can also store information from at least one of telephony network s wide area network WAN or signaling system number 7 SS7 network .

Femtocell gateway node s have substantially the same functionality as PS gateway node s . Additionally femtocell gateway node s can also include substantially all functionality of serving node s . In an embodiment femtocell gateway node s facilitates handover resolution e.g. assessment and execution . Server s have substantially the same functionality as described in connection with server s and can include one or more processors configured to confer at least in part the functionality of macrocell network platform . Moreover the analysis component can be implemented or executed by server s and or server s . To that end the one or more processor can execute code instructions stored in memory for example.

Memory can include information relevant to operation of the various components of femtocell network platform . For example operational information that can be stored in memory can comprise but is not limited to subscriber information contracted services maintenance and service records femtocell configuration e.g. devices served through femtocell RAN access control lists or white lists service policies and specifications privacy policies add on features femtocell measurement data .

With respect to in example embodiment FAP can receive and transmit signal s e.g. traffic and control signals from and to wireless devices access terminals wireless ports and routers etc. through a set of antennas . It should be appreciated that while antennas are a part of communication platform which comprises electronic components and associated circuitry that provides for processing and manipulating of received signal s e.g. a packet flow and signal s e.g. a broadcast control channel to be transmitted. In an embodiment communication platform includes a transmitter receiver e.g. a transceiver that can convert signal s from analog format to digital format upon reception and from digital format to analog format upon transmission. In addition receiver transmitter can divide a single data stream into multiple parallel data streams or perform the reciprocal operation. Coupled to transceiver is a multiplexer demultiplexer that facilitates manipulation of signal in time and frequency space. Electronic component can multiplex information data traffic and control signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM code division multiplexing CDM space division multiplexing SDM . In addition mux demux component can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to substantially any code known in the art e.g. Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes and so on. A modulator demodulator can be also a part of operational group and can modulate information according to multiple modulation techniques such as frequency modulation amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation QAM with M a positive integer phase shift keying PSK and the like.

FAP also includes a processor configured to confer functionality at least partially to substantially any electronic component in the FAP in accordance with embodiments of the embodiments. In particular processor can facilitate FAP to implement configuration instructions received through communication platform which can include storing data in memory . In addition processor facilitates FAP to process data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing such as effecting direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times etc. Moreover processor can manipulate antennas to facilitate beamforming or selective radiation pattern formation which can benefit specific locations e.g. basement home office covered by FAP and exploit substantially any other advantages associated with smart antenna technology. Memory can store data structures code instructions system or device information like device identification codes e.g. International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI an International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI a Mobile Station International Subscriber Directory Number MSISDN or a serial number and specification such as multimode capabilities code sequences for scrambling spreading and pilot transmission floor plan configuration AP deployment and frequency plans and so on. Moreover memory can store configuration information such as schedules and policies FAP address es or geographical indicator s access lists e.g. white lists license s for utilization of add features for FAP and so forth. In one example data storage can be implemented in memory .

In embodiment processor is coupled to the memory in order to store and retrieve information necessary to operate and or confer functionality to communication platform broadband network interface e.g. a broadband modem and other operational components e.g. multimode chipset s power supply sources that support FAP . The FAP can further include a measurement component which can include functionality including but not limited to performing RF network sweeps as more fully described herein. In addition various embodiments disclosed herein can also be implemented through i program modules stored in a computer readable storage medium or memory e.g. memory or memory and executed by a processor e.g. processor and or ii one or more other combinations of hardware and software or hardware and firmware.

Referring now to there is illustrated a block diagram of a computer operable to facilitate utilizing an FAP for RF network sweeps. In order to provide additional context for various embodiments of the embodiments described herein and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various embodiments of the embodiment described herein can be implemented. While the embodiments have been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions that can run on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments can be also implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated embodiments of the embodiments herein can be also practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

With reference again to the example environment for implementing various embodiments of the embodiments includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures can also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that can further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes ROM and RAM . A basic input output system BIOS can be stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during startup. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD e.g. EIDE SATA which internal hard disk drive can also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1394 interface technologies. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the embodiments described herein.

The drives and their associated computer readable storage media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and storage media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable storage media above refers to a hard disk drive HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of storage media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like can also be used in the example operating environment and further that any such storage media can contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods described herein.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . The systems and methods described herein can be implemented utilizing various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown can include a microphone an infrared IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen touch screen or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that can be coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a universal serial bus USB port an IR interface etc.

A monitor or other type of display device can be also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which can connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer can be connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adapter can facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which can also include a wireless AP disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adapter .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or can be connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device can be connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are example and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer can be operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This includes at least Wi Fi and BLUETOOTH wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi can allow connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. Wi Fi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11 a b g n etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which can use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet . Wi Fi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands at an 11 Mbps 802.11a or 54 Mbps 802.11b data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

The systems and or methods described herein can employ artificial intelligence AI to facilitate automating one or more features in accordance with the embodiments. The embodiments e.g. in connection with automatically identifying acquired cell sites that provide a maximum value benefit after addition to an existing communication network can employ various AI based schemes for carrying out various embodiments thereof. Moreover the classifier can be employed to determine a ranking or priority of the each cell site of the acquired network. A classifier is a function that maps an input attribute vector x x1 x2 x3 x4 . . . xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class that is f x confidence class . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that a user desires to be automatically performed. A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM operates by finding a hypersurface in the space of possible inputs which the hypersurface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include e.g. na ve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also is inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

As will be readily appreciated one or more of the embodiments can employ classifiers that are explicitly trained e.g. via a generic training data as well as implicitly trained e.g. via observing UE behavior operator preferences historical information receiving extrinsic information . For example SVMs can be configured via a learning or training phase within a classifier constructor and feature selection module. Thus the classifier s can be used to automatically learn and perform a number of functions including but not limited to determining according to a predetermined criteria which of the acquired cell sites will benefit a maximum number of subscribers and or which of the acquired cell sites will add minimum value to the existing communication network coverage etc. The criteria can include but is not limited to historical patterns UE behavior user preferences service provider preferences and or policies FAP parameters location of the femtocell location of the acquired cell sites etc.

As employed herein the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

As used herein terms such as data storage data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components or computer readable storage media described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

Memory disclosed herein can include volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . The memory e.g. data storages databases of the systems and methods is intended to comprise without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory.

What has been described above includes mere examples of various embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing these examples but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the present embodiments are possible. Accordingly the embodiments disclosed and or claimed herein are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

