---

title: Matching client device to appropriate data package
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are disclosed for matching a client device with an appropriate network service provider data package. A device ID for the client device can be decomposed to one or more device ID ranges in a device decomposition set. One or more ranges of client ID can be assigned to a network service provider data package, which can be decomposed into a set of package decomposition ranges in a package decompositions set. The device decomposition set can be compared to the package decomposition set, and if an intersection is identified between the sets, the network service provider data package can be provided to the client device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09521542&OS=09521542&RS=09521542
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09521542
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160218
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 190 662 filed Jul. 26 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference. If any disclosures are incorporated herein by reference and such incorporated disclosures conflict in part or whole with the present disclosure then to the extent of conflict and or broader disclosure and or broader definition of terms the present disclosure controls. If such incorporated disclosures conflict in part or whole with one another then to the extent of conflict the later dated disclosure controls.

In a computing environment a device can utilize software services and hardware from a variety of providers. For example a device may comprise hardware components from a first provider software components from a second provider and services from a third provider. Further the device may connect to a network service provider that provides data and or voice services over a network. One or more of the device providers may wish to allow for a customized user experience for example where the device utilizes applications data and or metadata that is specific to the device software and or services. For example a network service provider may load a data package onto the device that provides a customized branded user experience to the user. As an illustrative example device hardware appropriate software e.g. application plus other data such as localized names and icons can be provided by the network service provider that provides device specific data services to a given mobile broadband device.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A network service provider NSP such as a mobile network operator MNO and or mobile virtual network operator MVNO can provide customized data packages e.g. comprising metadata and applications for example that may allow a custom branded experience for their subscribers. In order to deliver an appropriate customized data package e.g. matched to the client device a device ID for a client device e.g. and or hardware on a client device such as a SIM card can be read and matched with a customized package from a cloud network. However as an example a second NSP may lease a subset of subscriber identity e.g. International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI ranges e.g. or other identifiers from a first NSP. In this example the device ID for the client device may not be able to be matched against the second NSP subscriber range as the subset is comprises in the set of ranges assigned to the first NSP.

Accordingly one or more techniques and or systems are disclosed for matching of a particular specific customized etc. operator experience to specific ranges of client IDs for example thereby allowing an NSP to provide customized experiences to their customers. The NSP can assign one or more ranges of client IDs to the data package and a device ID can be matched against the assigned ranges. The client ID ranges for example can be decomposed into a plurality of package decomposition ranges and the device ID can be decomposed into one or more device ID ranges. The respective sets of decomposed ranges e.g. the package decompositions set and the device decomposition set can be compared to determine if they intersect e.g. comprise a matching member element . If they intersect the associated data package can be provided to the client device.

In one embodiment of matching a client device with an appropriate network service provider data package a device identification ID can be received for the client device. Further a package decomposition set can be received for the network service provider data package where the package decomposition set comprises one or more ranges of client IDs that are associated with the network service provider data package. Additionally the device ID can be compared to the package decomposition set and if at least a portion of the device ID e.g. and or ID for hardware on a client device such as a SIM card is comprised in the package decomposition set the network service provider data package can be provided to the client device.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

As provided herein a method may be devised that provides for matching a client device to an appropriate data package from a network service provider. For example when the network service provider NSP wishes to provide a customized experience for a subscriber of their service the NSP can provide a data package e.g. comprising applications and or metadata that can be downloaded to the client device. In one embodiment one or more data packages may be managed by a data service to which the client device connects. The data service can match the client device to the appropriate data package intended for use by the connecting client device and the NSP data package can be provided to the client device for download to provide a customized user experience for example.

As an example a manufacturer or distributor e.g. network service provider of a piece of hardware or a device may provide a device data package e.g. comprising customized metadata and applications for the device such as to enable a customized user experience to an end user. Further in order to match a data package to an appropriate device the data package provider e.g. manufacturer or distributor can assign a list of devices e.g. or pieces of hardware to the data package using device e.g. or hardware IDs. As an illustrative example the data package provider may include one or more ranges of device identifiers e.g. client device IDs or client hardware IDs with the data package where the data package is intended to be applied to the devices identified by the one or more ranges.

In one embodiment the device ID for the client device e.g. and or hardware in the client device can be compared against the one or more ranges of client IDs in the package decomposition set for the network service provider data package. In this embodiment if the device ID is a member of the package decomposition set for example then the network service provider data package may be intended to be used by the client device e.g. downloaded and installed on the client device . In one embodiment a decomposition set e.g. such as the package decomposition set can comprise a first range of strings that is decomposed into a plurality of second ranges of strings comprised in the first range of strings. It may be appreciated that as discussed below at least some of the device ID e.g. last few digits may be obscured e.g. replaced with non functional alphanumeric characters to among other things facilitate user anonymity.

As an illustrative example a first range of one hundred to two hundred and fifteen 100 215 comprises second ranges one hundred to one hundred and ninety nine 100 199 two hundred to two hundred and nine 200 209 and two hundred and ten to two hundred and fifteen 210 215 . In this example the first range 100 215 is decomposed into three second ranges 100 199 200 209 and 210 215 . In one embodiment the ranges may be expressed as strings for example instead of dash separated numbers. As an illustrative example the second ranges 100 199 200 209 and 210 215 may be expressed as 1XX 20X 21X and 215 where the Xs can indicate a placeholder for a range of integers e.g. from 00 to 99 0 to 9 and 0 to 4 respectively .

In one embodiment a decomposition set e.g. such as the package decomposition set can comprise elements comprising strings that represent the second ranges e.g. 1XX 20X 21X and 215 . For example the range of client IDs assigned to the network service provider data package can be decomposed into a plurality of second ranges which are represented as strings in the package decomposition set for the network service provider data package. In this way for example the device ID can also comprise a string e.g. series of numbers and it can be compared against the elements of the package decomposition set to determine if the device ID is a member of the package decomposition set. Further if the device ID is a member the associated network service provider the data package can be provided to the device associated with the device ID e.g. to download and provide a customized user experience on the device .

For example a network service provider such as a mobile network operator MNO or mobile virtual network operator MVNO may wish to provide a custom branded user experience to users of their network e.g. customers . In this example the network service provider may have a database of client identifiers such as a service subscriber key e.g. International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI that are respectively associated with an end user or device. Further as an example one or more desired ranges of the client identifiers e.g. comprising the set or subset of the MNO s client identifiers can be assigned to a data package that provides the custom branded user experience.

As an illustrative example a client identifier may comprise a string 100 222 123456789 e.g. an IMSI where the first three digits 100 are a Mobile Country Code MCC the second three digits 222 are a Mobile Network Code MNC and the last nine digits 123456789 are a Mobile Subscriber Identification Number MSIN . In this example the MSIN when combined with the MCC and MNC may identify the user and or the device that is comprised in the MNO s e.g. or MVNO s customer database. Further in this example a set e.g. or subset of client identifiers comprised in the customer database may comprise a range of 100 222 123400000 to 100 222 123499999 which includes one hundred thousand clients. The range e.g. or one or more subsets of the range for example can be assigned to the desired network service provider data package e.g. so that devices having device IDs within this range are provided the network service provider data package which in turn may provide a customized user experience on the devices for example .

It will be appreciated that the one or more ranges of client IDs associated with the network service provider data package is not limited to the embodiments described herein. Any type of identifier that identifies a user or device e.g. or hardware associated with the network service provider may be assigned to the network service provider data package. For example for a code division multiple access CDMA based network service provider a Provider ID e.g. System Identification Number SID and or a Provider Name may be used as a client ID. As another example for a WiMax based network service provider a Provider ID such as a Network Service Provider ID NSP ID may be used as a client ID.

In one embodiment a package decomposition set can be determined using the one or more ranges of client IDs assigned to the network service provider data package. Determining the package decomposition set can comprise decomposing the one or more ranges of client IDs into a set of one or more sub ranges of data strings or package decomposition ranges comprised in the one or more ranges of client IDs. For example as described above the range of one hundred to two hundred and fifteen 100 215 can be decomposed into the sub ranges one hundred to one hundred and ninety nine 100 199 two hundred to two hundred and nine 200 209 and two hundred and ten to two hundred and fifteen 210 215 .

At in the example embodiment of one or more decomposition trees may be created for the one or more ranges of client IDs and used to decompose the one or more ranges into one or more sub ranges. As an illustrative example is a diagram illustrating an example embodiment where a range may be decomposed into one or more sub ranges. In this example a decomposition tree can be created for a range comprising ninety seven to three hundred and three.

In one embodiment the decomposition tree can comprise a root node which can comprise a range of client IDs e.g. 97 to 303 . Further in this embodiment for a node of the decomposition tree that comprises a range of min to max inclusive let a variable value x comprise a smallest integer such that min x

Further in this embodiment if the node does comprise two children nodes a first child node can comprise a range of min to the variable value x and a second child node can comprise a range of x plus one x 1 to max. As an illustrative example in the root node comprising the range 97 303 comprises two children nodes . The first child node comprises the sub range ninety seven min to ninety nine x and the second child node comprises the sub range one hundred x 1 to three hundred and three max .

In the example embodiment the node e.g. the second child node of the root node meets the criteria to comprise two children nodes e.g. x one ninety nine 199 where 199 is a smallest integer such that 97 199

Returning to at the package decomposition set can be derived from one or more sub ranges from leaves of the decomposition tree of a range of client IDs. As an illustrative example in the leaves of the decomposition tree comprise the nodes and . In this embodiment the package decomposition set can comprise the sub ranges ninety seven to ninety nine 97 99 one hundred to one hundred and ninety nine 100 199 two hundred to two hundred and ninety nine 200 299 and three hundred to three hundred and three 330 303 .

Further the sub ranges of the package decomposition set may be represented as data strings which are representative of package decomposition ranges that comprise the sub ranges . For example one hundred to one hundred and ninety nine 100 199 may be represented as 1XX where an X can comprise a placeholder indicator of a number from zero to nine 0 9 e.g. as a range . In this example the package decomposition set can comprise the representative ranges 097 098 099 e.g. or 09X with X possibly being indicative of merely 7 8 or 9 1XX 2XX 300 301 302 and 303 e.g. or 30X with X possibly being indicative of merely 0 1 2 or 3 .

Returning to at an ID for the network service provider NSP ID and the package decomposition set can be associated with e.g. assigned to the network service provider data package. For example the NSP ID and package decomposition set can be linked to the data package using a database or some other data storage container. In this example the decomposition set may be looked up such as to compare against a device ID e.g. to determine if the device ID falls within the package decomposition set such that the data package can be provided to the device if the device ID falls within the package decomposition set .

In one embodiment at the package decomposition set e.g. one or more package decomposition ranges thereof may be encoded such as to provide security when sending receiving the set. A network service provider may wish to protect a list or range of subscriber IDs for example to keep competitors from estimating a number of subscribers. In this example given a decade decomposition set it may be trivial to estimate the corresponding range of subscriber IDs.

In one embodiment encoding can comprise hashing at least a portion of the package decomposition set to yield a package hash value. For example a cryptographically safe hash function may be used to generate package hash values for the package decomposition set. As an illustrative example the hash function SHA256 may be implemented where this algorithm can reliably generate encoded strings e.g. same output every time given same input can generate different encoded strings for different inputs and the input cannot be derived from the output encoded string.

In this example the output of the SHA256 function is an array of 32 bytes. In one embodiment the output package hash value can be converted to a text string. For example the array of 32 bytes may be converted to a text string using a standard hexadecimal encoding. Further in this example the hexadecimal text string may be used to match against a device ID e.g. that has also been converted to a hexadecimal text string .

In one embodiment security of the device ID and or privacy concerns about sharing the device ID may be promoted by obscuring at least a portion of the device ID for example which may be sent to match against a package decomposition set. For example one or more of the last Z numbers of the device ID sent to a server for matching can be obscured such as by replacing them with a non functional alphanumeric character. In this embodiment obscuring can be done to promote user privacy and or for added security. As another example the specific device ID for the client device is not sent instead the device ID minus the last two or other number of digits e.g. or with the last two or other number of digits obscured can be sent for matching. Obscuring or removing one or more digits can thus help maintain some level of user anonymity while still allowing a Network Service Provider to provide a customized experience for a set of devices. For example obscuring or removing the last k digits may help with privacy because if an eavesdropper were to be able to crack hashed IDs that a device sends to a server all that the eavesdropper would get is the pool of 10ID numbers to which the device belongs. Anonymity is thus preserved essentially by hiding the device in a crowd.

At the device ID can be decomposed into a device decomposition set comprising one or more device ID ranges. As an illustrative example is a diagram illustrating an example embodiment where a device ID may be decomposed into one or more ID ranges. In the example embodiment an example ID number two hundred and forty two can be decomposed to create the device decomposition set .

In one embodiment the device decomposition set may be determined by decomposing the device ID into multiples of base powers e.g. powers of ten . For example as illustrated in a highest multiple of a base power of ten for the device ID is ten squared 10 . In this embodiment for example a first ID decomposition can comprise 2 10242

Further in this embodiment a second ID decomposition can comprise a range for the device ID at a base power below that of the first range for example 2 10 4 10 242

As described above the respective ID ranges can be expressed as device ID ranges using X as a placeholder indicator. For example the ID range of two hundred to two hundred and nine nine can be expressed as a device ID range of 2XX where the X s respectively indicate a range of zero to nine 0 9 . Further in this example the ID range of two hundred and forty to two hundred and forty nine can be expressed as a device ID range of 24X. Additionally in this example the ID range of two hundred and forty two to two hundred and forty two merely comprises the device ID range of 242.

Returning to at a network operator ID can be appended to respective device ID ranges in the device decomposition set. For example in a GSM based network the network operator ID may comprise the MCC and MNC in a CDMA Wifi and or WiMax based networks a Provider ID may be used for the network operator ID. In one embodiment the device decomposition set can comprise one or more device ID ranges that respectively comprise a network operator ID for a network service provider associated with the client device one or more portions of a subscriber ID associated with the client device and or one or more placeholder indicators that represent a device ID range for the client device. In this embodiment appending the network operator ID to the respective device ID ranges for example may facilitate in identifying the appropriate NSP for the client device.

In one embodiment at the device decomposition set e.g. one or more device ID ranges thereof may be encoded such as to provide security when sending receiving the set. A user of the client device for example represented by the device decomposition set may wish to protect their subscriber for example to keep malicious users from intercepting sensitive information. In this example given a device decomposition set the subscriber ID for the client device may be derived and potentially misused. Further in this embodiment encoding can comprise hashing at least a portion of the device decomposition set to yield a device hash value. For example a same cryptographically safe hash function may be used to generate the device hash value as was used for encoding the package decomposition set. As an illustrative example the hash function SHA256 may be implemented for both the device decomposition set and the package decomposition set such that the resulting hash values can be compared to each other. It will be appreciated however that other hash functions can be used for the device decomposition set and or the package decomposition set.

At the NSP provider for the client device is matched to one or more NSP data packages. For example a NSP may provide one or more data packages to the data management service to provide to appropriate client devices. In this example the respective NSP data packages may comprise network operator IDs for the providing NSP e.g. to identify which NSPs provided which data packages . Further in this example the network operator ID for the data package s can be matched with the network operator ID associated with the device decomposition set to find one or more appropriate NSP data packages for the client device e.g. to be examined further to see if the device ID falls within a package decomposition set .

At a first device ID range from the device decomposition set is used to compare with a package decomposition set at . As an illustrative example as illustrated in the package decomposition set comprises package decomposition ranges and the device decomposition set comprises device ID ranges. In one embodiment the respective device ID ranges can be compared to the package decomposition ranges e.g. one at a time to determine if the two sets intersect.

In one embodiment the first device ID range compared to the package decomposition set can comprise the device ID range having a smallest number of placeholder indicators e.g. . In this embodiment for example by starting the comparison from a more specific device ID range and proceeding up to a device ID range having the most placeholder indicators a more specific match may be identified first. For example the device ID range of 242 can be compared to the package decomposition set and determined not to be a member e.g. no intersection .

Returning to if no match is found at the next device ID range is used to compare with the package decomposition set. For example as illustrated in the next device ID range 24X can be compared to the package decomposition set and found not to be a member. This can be repeated up to and through the last device ID range. For example last device ID range 2XX does match a package decomposition range 2XX in the package decomposition set . If no more device ID ranges are available from the device decomposition set the example embodiment ends at for example and the device decomposition set may be compared against a second package decomposition set e.g. or found to have no matching data package such that no customized user experience would be provided to a user via the mobile device . However if a device ID range matches a package decomposition range e.g. 2XX the device decomposition set and the package decomposition set intersect. At if an intersection is identified the data package associated with the matched package decomposition range from the package decomposition set is provided to the client device.

A system may be devised for matching a client device to an appropriate data package from a network service provider. For example a network service provider NSP can assign a range of client identifications IDs to a custom data package intended for downloading and use by one or more client devices comprised in the client ID range. In one embodiment when the device ID for a client device matches or falls within a client ID range assigned to a data package the NSP data package can be provided to the client device for download and customization for example.

A data package providing component is operably coupled with the device ID matching component and configured to provide the network service provider data package to the client device if at least a portion of the device ID is comprised in the package decomposition set . For example the exemplary system may receive the device ID and the device ID matching component can compare it to the package decomposition set associated with the data package . In this example if the device ID is found to be a member of the package decomposition set the data package providing component can provide the data package to the client device such as for downloading and applying to customization of the device .

A package decomposition set determination component is configured to determine a package decomposition set e.g. comprising one or more package decomposition ranges that is associated with e.g. assigned to the network service provider data package . In one embodiment the package decomposition set determination component uses one or more ranges of client IDs provided by the network service provider to determine the package decomposition set e.g. via a decomposition tree such as illustrated in and or per of .

An encoding component can be configured to encode the device ID for example as the one or more device ID ranges in the device decomposition set . Further the encoding component can be configured to encode the package decomposition set for example as the one or more package decomposition ranges in the package decomposition set . The encoding component can comprise a hashing component configured to determine a hash value for the device ID and or the package decomposition set . Additionally the encoding component can comprise a text string component configured to covert the hash value to a text string e.g. a hexadecimal string for the device ID e.g. the device ID ranges in the device decomposition set and or the package decomposition set .

A package matching component can be configured to match the client device with one or more network service provider data packages based at least upon a mobile network operator identification for the client device . For example the device ID for the client device can comprise a network operator ID for the network service provider NSP of the client device. In this example the network operator ID can be appended to one or more of the device ID ranges in the device decomposition set e.g. or the entire set . Further the package matching component can use the network operator ID associated with the device ID to identify a data package from a same NSP.

In the example embodiment the data package providing component can be configured to provide an appropriate data package from the one or more network service provider data packages based at least upon a portion of the device ID that is matched with an element in the package decomposition set . For example the package matching component can identify an appropriate data package for the client device based on a network operator ID for the device e.g. appended to one or more device ID ranges in the device decomposition set for the device . In this manner merely a data package from the network upon which the device is operating may be identified e.g. as opposed to a potentially incompatible data package from a different network service provider upon which the device is not operating . With the data package identified the device ID matching component can then attempt to match one or more of the device ID ranges from the device decomposition set with a package decomposition range in the package decomposition set for the identified data package. If a match is found e.g. the two sets intersect the data package provider can provide the associated data package to the client device such as to download and customize the client device . Similarly an attempt can be made to match one or more of the device ID ranges from the device decomposition set with a package decomposition range in the package decomposition set for other identified data packages so that other data packages may be provided downloaded etc. to the device.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Further at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

