---

title: Real-time visual customer support enablement system and method
abstract: Disclosed is a system and method for providing real-time visual customer support. In one embodiment, the present system is configured to enhance native phone communication by simultaneously being able to deliver one-way real-time visual streaming from the end consumer. In this way, the present invention allows businesses to participate in collaborative audio-visual communication during the very first customer contact over the phone.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09584765&OS=09584765&RS=09584765
owner: Livegenic Inc.
number: 09584765
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160202
---
This application is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 14 880 945 filed Oct. 12 2015 that is incorporated by reference in its entirety. application Ser. No. 14 880 945 claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 066 878 filed Oct. 21 2014 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 067 974 filed Oct. 23 2014 which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention generally relates to a real time communication system and method of use. More particularly the present invention is directed to a system and method for identifying connecting collecting and distributing numerous mobile real time communication mediums into a uniform communication channel as well as separating and routing a single communication medium into numerous communication channels.

Overwhelming majority of all customer communications occur over the phone. Despite the increasing presence of social media and online customer service tools the nature of this paradigm is that voice communications are the most direct interactive communications that exist. While it is convenient to use the phone verbal communications over the phone often fall short of enabling the listener to adequately understand diagnose triage and resolve the issues. In this regard verbal communications have the apparent lack of clarity which makes customer service support extremely expensive while frustrating to many.

Over the past few years there has been an increase in a number of video conferencing and video chat solutions on the market. Modern real time video communications systems fuse audio and video data into a uniform medium that combines the voice and the video channels together. In web conferencing the video and the audio travel together and the video frames are synchronized for optimal quality teleconferencing interaction creating a uniform transmission of communication.

Combining voice communication with visual communication and in particular real time video makes the communication simpler easy and productive while increasing the quality of a customer service experience. Phone conversations whether coming from a mobile device or a landline do not have a way to deliver a visual stream to the conversation. Generally existing video conferencing systems e.g. Skype require participants to be connected to each other prior to commencing a conversation. Another video conferencing system FaceTime is limited for use on certain devices namely Apple devices. Furthermore existing systems and methods for conducting real time video transfer or live streaming rely heavily on network connectivity. In this regard live video streaming is very sensitive to the network bandwidth capacity and quality of the video can suffer depending on the bandwidth and the size of the video resolution. Thus videos must be recorded and then uploaded at a later time if network connectivity is not available or unreliable.

In addition all of the existing systems require the participants to install software on their electronic devices in order to start communicating. For example to communicate over Skype all parties in communication must first install the Skype application before calling. Similarly to communicate over FaceTime both parties must have an Apple device with the FaceTime application pre installed. In this regard existing systems require an initial set up process to configure an end user to become a conversation participant and acquire a visual communication. More specifically the end user i.e. a customer would have to call a customer support hotline connect to a customer service support agent hang up the phone install appropriate software and then re connect with another customer service support agent through a separate system e.g. via the installed software. Alternatively the end user must have a pre recorded video and transmit it to the customer service support agent via a secondary platform such as a website for sharing videos.

The examples above illustrate that there have been limited means to enhance a phone conversation with a real time visual channel. Applying these concepts to help desk support and or customer service environments field operations etc. and then fitting them within a business workflow creates a need for a real time video centric customer service support help system that allows customer service support agents or business employees to connect to real time visual streams coming from the mobile devices of their customers and other employees.

The present invention provides a system that combines ad hoc real time visual streaming functionality into a centralized hub of customer service interaction or a field operation management enterprise platform. The system includes unique algorithms for identifying participants of the communication channels using mobile device metadata and the way they connect to the other parties and re routing of the audio channel for uniform processing. This innovative invention not only addresses the dynamic ability to provide the visual without disconnecting from the phone but also provides solutions to tackle on demand distribution of the application while the end user or the customer is connected over the phone.

The following discloses a simplified summary of the specification in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the specification. This summary is not an extensive overview of the specification. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the specification nor delineate the scope of the specification. Its sole purpose is to disclose some concepts of the specification in a simplified form as to prelude to the more detailed description that is disclosed later.

In preferred embodiments the present real time video centric system may be applied to help desk support and or customer service environments field operations and claim and insurance industry. In one embodiment the present invention enables real time visual streaming from a customer during the very first contact over the phone. This process is ideal in the areas of customer service and support environment as well as in the internal business environments that employ a field communication support team such as a dispatch hotline or a command center.

In operation a customer service support agent upon receiving a phone call from a customer can supply a link to the customer to download and install a mobile application or push the mobile application to the customer s device e.g. a smart phone directly. Once the application is installed the customer can commence live streaming video from the customer s mobile device camera. This installation of the application and the streaming is conducted while the customer remains connected verbally over the phone with the customer service support agent. When the customer starts streaming the customer service support agent can immediately view everything that the customer records with the mobile device camera. In another embodiment if the customer connected over a landline the customer has the capability of employing a separate secondary device to provide the visual while being able to continue communicating verbally over the landline phone.

When the video capturing functionality or more particularly when live streaming is activated a high definition version of the video is supplied and temporarily stored on the customer s device. Thereafter the high definition version of the video is automatically deleted from the customer s device once the video is synchronized and uploaded to the customer service support agent or another receiving entity. If the present system encounters an error in the visual streaming and the customer is unable to provide a live video due to limited or variable connectivity the customer remains connected with the customer over the phone line. By maintaining the connection over the native phone the present invention allows the business to utilize the existing customer service call center platform for recording the conversation for quality control and for tracking customer service metrics e.g. average hang time first call resolution. In contrast communicating only over a web conference platform would disable businesses from collecting customer service metrics unless the web conference platform is specially equipped with these capabilities in its own platform.

In another embodiment the present system provides access to remote assistance to field operations. By delivering a set of mobile real time visual solutions the present system allows users within the construction space to triage make decisions and synchronize operation in a transparent manner within the field. In this way the present system can overcome the challenges that include marrying the manpower equipment and schedules together into a synchronous optimal operation.

In another embodiment the present system provides remote damage assessment solutions within claims and insurance industries by improving customer support and collecting evidence during the first notice of loss. The system enables claim adjusters to quickly and easily acquire a visual from the customer s point of view. In this way insurance carriers can benefit from effective triage and handle claims completely remotely. In addition these capabilities enable improved risk assessment with timely evidence caption and fraud prevention metadata.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a system that enhances phone communications with live video to clarify the information exchange and to lead to quick issue resolution for customers and customer service support agents.

It is another object of the present invention to apply real time visual streaming into the business process during the very first contact with a customer to lower the costs of support shipment and replacements and customer attrition.

It is another object of the present invention to provide dynamically adaptable recording capabilities and approaches to deliver high quality video artifacts into a cloud environment by detecting the type of artifact transfer the system should select.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a method that can maintain a high quality customer service and support with minimal barriers in communication efficiency.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a system that can be used by insurance carriers to provide effective triage and to handle insurance claims remotely.

It is still another object of the present invention to provide a set of mobile real time visual solutions to bring the triage decision making and transparency necessary for a dynamic fast pace environment in field operations.

It is still another object of the present invention to provide a system that connects one or more viewers of a live video feed to a one way video of one or more real time streams delivered from the hands of other parties while simultaneously communicating verbally over a third party audio line.

It is still another object of the present invention to provide a system that maintains a conversation over the phone while establishing and providing a video communication to allow a business to utilize an existing customer service call center platform for recording the conversation for quality control and for tracking customer service metrics.

In the light of the foregoing these and other objects are accomplished in accordance of the principles of the present invention wherein the novelty of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description and appended claims.

The present invention is directed towards a real time visual customer support enablement system and method of use. For purposes of clarity and not by way of limitation illustrative views of the present system and method are described with references made to the above identified figures. Various modifications obvious to one skilled in the art are deemed to be within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware or a combination of hardware and software. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor an object and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. As another example an interface can include I O components as well as associated processor application and or API components.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or media.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to disclose concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. Additionally the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more or at least one unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. It is to be appreciated that determinations or inferences referenced throughout the subject specification can be practiced through the use of artificial intelligence techniques.

Referring now to there are shown block diagrams of the enterprise client management portal with visual data connectivity. The present invention comprises a delivery and streaming infrastructure an online and nearline video archive back end and API server and front end server components. The delivery and streaming infrastructure includes a mobile communication library with streaming encoders and at least one media streaming server . Without limitation the mobile communication library with streaming encoders is configured to establish support sessions and manage the support session s identity and security capture and encode video streams capturing high resolution pictures capture bookmarks notes geo location and other types of relevant customer information and transfer data to encoder media server .

The media streaming server is configured to process live video streams and complimentary customer information. Without limitation the media streaming server is configured to retrieve incoming video streams encode streams in formats with high medium or low bitrates and transfer to an output stream record incoming video streams and store the same in the video archive manage incoming streams authentication and authorization video streams queue processing.

The online and nearline video archive is a combination of the server attached storage cloud online storage and cloud nearline storage. The online and nearline video archive is configured to establish low latency replicated storage and retrieval to and from the server attached storage establish low latency replicated distributed storage and retrieval to and from the cloud online storage and establish replicated distributed storage and retrieval to and from the nearline storage archive.

The back end and API server is a server side system for enabling storage and workflow management. The back end and API Server is configured to conduct user management security registrations authentication authorization audit access management API for integration and interconnection with mobile and cloud applications metadata storage and management in relational and NoSQL databases workflow management registration processing and backing up media content.

The front end server comprises a server side system that establishes direct user interactions via a web browser. The front end server is configured to collect and visualize user information manage metadata play media content via the web browser and provide integration widgets for incorporation into third party websites.

The illustrated embodiments further include mobile devices with mobile communications capabilities that can include various operating systems such as Android A iOS B Windows C. The mobile communications is in communication with a VoIP system or other suitable messaging framework an API web server and a media server wherein the media server is connected to a file storage unit .

The VoIP system further communicates with a customer service VoIP system . The present system utilizes VoIP routing in order to connect with the user of the mobile application i.e. the visual stream provider for real time streaming. When the phone connection is disconnected the viewer of the real time stream is also disconnected. This event instructs the server to reconnect with the real time visual streaming application that was previously identified via a unique stream identifier. A call back mechanism will route and launch a VoIP call from within the mobile application thereby reconnecting the customer service support agent and the customer.

The present invention also allows a user e.g. a customer service agent to manually switch from a phone conversation to a VoIP conversation. When this switch takes place all streaming communications voice and video will travel through the mobile application although they may or may not be embedded to travel in the same channel.

When the streaming is in operation within the application the user device may be configured to automatically activate and deactivate the device s speaker phone for audio if there are no headsets detected and channel detected audio with the video if the phone function is not being utilized when the streaming starts. In some embodiments the video can be shared with or without the audio as the audio captured through the phone lines can be removed or re added for replay per organization s privacy rules and regulations.

The API web server is in communication with at least one integration adapter e.g. customer relationship management CRM which is in connection to other types of CRM such as Salesforce CRM and Orange CRM via integration API. Each of the CRM includes business logic and a database .

The integration adapters are also in connection to a custom enterprise management SaaS which contain a business logic and a database . Each of the customer service VoIP system the CRM the customer enterprise management SaaS and the media server receives data from a customer service interface . It is contemplated that the customer service interface is accessible by a viewer of a visual stream e.g. a customer service agent CSA an insurance claims handler or adjuster a customer and other end users. The customer service interface comprises a graphic user interface GUI for displaying videos thereon. Additionally the customer service interface comprises menus and dashboard for selecting various settings and options.

In another embodiment the present system comprises a first user device that is operated by a first end user wherein the first end user provides visual streaming. Without limitation the user device comprises a computer a smart phone a mobile device a personal digital assistant PDA an e reader or other types of data enabled devices that can connect to a network such as the Internet local area network LAN Wifi and the like.

The first user device comprises the mobile application with stream encoders installed thereon. The mobile application is configured to supply real time visual stream while providing connectivity and routing voice and video to the connected parties. The first user device is connected to a REST API server comprising a basic REST server a user management module a database communication module and a logging module . The server communicates with a transactional database and a dynamic front end which transmits data to a GUI for user management . The GUI for user management is accessible by an administrative entity and a second end user via a second user device . It is contemplated that the second end user views the visual streaming provided by the first end user.

In another embodiment the first user device is in communication with a cloud server via media streaming. The cloud server includes a media server that transmits data to a cloud storage and archive which in turn pushes data to the second user device that is operated by the second user. The cloud server further comprises an authentication and authorization module that communicates with the REST API server . As discussed above the REST API server is connected to the dynamic front end and the transactional database . The dynamic front end pushes data to the web server which connects to the administrative entity. The web server is further connected to the media server .

In another embodiment the first user device is configured to provide dynamically adaptable recording capabilities and deliver high quality video artifacts into the cloud storage by detecting the type of artifact transfer the system should select i.e. record and upload or live streaming. In this way the present system can provide a high definition video without relying on the network bandwidth capacity among other factors that can compromise the quality of the video.

When the video capturing functionality is activated the video is automatically recorded on a local device i.e. the first user device and automatically uploaded by chunk based transfer into the cloud storage . The cloud storage and archive then transmits the video to the second user device . When live visual streaming is enabled a high definition version of the streaming video is supplied to the first user device and the second user device at the same time so that the first user device temporarily stores the video. Once the visual streaming session concludes the recorded video is synchronized and uploaded to the cloud and automatically deleted from the first user device to conserve device storage. Then the newly arrived artifact i.e. the recorded video is used to enhance the original live video content to improve its clarity content and overall quality.

In this regard the present invention provides the best video quality artifact even when the video streaming connectivity suffers from reduced quality due to available bandwidth. The improvement in the quality of the video provides better experience when replaying the video and reduces frame loss and interruption attributed to various network bandwidth and connectivity issues. The application is also configured to avoid live streaming when there are no viewers detected so as to record and upload the highest quality video artifact.

The user device is also in communication with a telephone that is operated by the second user. On mobile devices that do not allow simultaneous phone and data usage the enterprise portal provides in application calling capabilities that call the mobile application of the customer using SIP VoIP system . In this way the real time visual streaming can be combined with the audio channel and be supplied to a business customer support system.

During the phone interaction the voice travels over the user device e.g. a native phone and leads to a video capture that does not contain the voice. Therefore to record the voice an enterprise portal enables call recording capability that dials the customer service support agent s or in house employee s configured phone number triggering the ability to conduct a three way call in a new recording participant line to record the voice communication between two parties.

This type of voice recording is asynchronous meaning that a full interaction can be recorded independently of video recording such that the video can be halted and restarted multiple times without causing voice recording to halt or disconnect.

In this type of interaction the invention still handles voice and video communication asynchronously. Because the same data communication channel e.g. 3G 4G LTE etc. is now shared by both voice and video however an algorithm is applied in order to prioritize an audio channel over a video channel. This algorithm is responsible for maintaining the verbal connection between the participants in the event that the bandwidth or connectivity drops by adapting the video quality or turning the live streaming off. This approach is unique and different from systems such as Skype FaceTime or WebRTC protocols where both voice and video travel together and in the event of the bandwidth fluctuation causes a loss of both voice and video channels at the same time.

Since the voice in the platform is handled asynchronously from video communication the voice channel is connected with real time speech to text transcription analytics fraud detection and recognition services and this channel provides business critical notifications to the customer service representative in real time.

The real time streaming mobile application installed on the user device allows the user i.e. the customer to dial a customer service number directly from the application. More particularly the application comprises a customizable dashboard that shows various companies customer service phone numbers which may be displayed as icons tiles or in a list. The customer service numbers can be listed in the order of the customer s preference. If a phone number is not listed the application allows the user to search directories i.e. by name category location or manually enter a new phone number. When a new phone number is manually entered the number is saved for future reference. Additionally the application logs each customer service calls to create a history of all of the calls. If any error occurs during operation information and data relating to the error in the session is stored in the REST based NOSQL database such as a CouchDB database for analysis at a later time.

To merge audio and video channels for accurate replay the visual stream and the audio content must be synchronized in order to prevent latencies associated with mobile broadcasting wherein on average the latency in real time visual streaming can range from 0.5 seconds to 10 seconds while audio latency ranges are within 0.01 seconds to 1 second.

During transmission of the video the video stream is modified to embed a timestamp within the pixel frames to identify the increments of the video frames. Since the mobile device may not handle the extra processing to modify every frame leading to burning of extra energy through increased number of CPU cycles a specific delay interval is defined marking only some frames that fall within a given increment.

When the visual stream with the audio is combined into a single video with voice the missing frames that do not suit the interval are added as copies of previous frames to satisfy the latency changes and the differences in time lapses between marked frames. Subsequent passes through the combined video will analyze drastically changing frame rates in the video and add new matching frames into slots that are deviating from the average frame per second rates in order to achieve a balanced video with high quality and a stable visual and audio delivery.

Referring now to shows a workflow chart of the real time video stream identification. The present invention comprises mobile devices with mobile communications capabilities that can include various operating systems such as Android A iOS B Windows C. The mobile communications is in communication with a front end or a website via voice over phone connection wherein the front end or the website is accessible to viewers. The mobile communications is also in communication with a media server via voice over mobile application. The front end or the website is also in communication with the media server .

Each visual stream can be matched with metadata that is obtained from other visual streams so that additional information such as position i.e. latitude and longitude or Global Positioning System GPS location of the visual stream video capturing direction video resolution video screen dimensions hardware and software configuration information of the device used to provide the visual stream information on the device performance e.g. frames per second camera quality and start and end time of the streaming are obtained.

Referring now to there is shown a workflow chart of the mobile real time streaming application. As discussed above the present invention comprises mobile devices with mobile communications capabilities that can include various operating systems such as Android A iOS B Windows C. The mobile communications is in communication with a front end or a website via voice over phone connection wherein the front end or the website is accessible to viewers. The mobile communications is also in communication with a media server via voice over mobile application. The front end or the website is also in communication with the media server .

In the illustrated embodiment the system further comprises an API web server that is in communication with the mobile communications and a custom enterprise management SaaS which comprises logic and database therein. The front end or the website is in communication with the custom enterprise management SaaS . The front end may be configured to allow the viewers to switch real time visual streams without disconnecting from the currently displayed screen. Additionally the viewers may watch multiple real time videos concurrently on a single screen.

In an embodiment where a visual stream provider cannot immediately connect to a viewer the visual stream provider can provide the viewer with a visual voicemail or a prerecorded video. This embodiment is particularly suitable for handling unmanned customer service inquiries. For example when a customer submits a visual voicemail or a video it is listed in a queue for resolution and the customer service support system is provided with a notification of the new incoming voicemail.

The present system also provides a real time display of GPS coordinates on a map wherein the map can be displayed on the front end or the website . Preferably the system displays the location of the stream for all GPS enabled devices. This allows the customer service support agents or dispatch personnel to verify the information based on the mapped coordinates and handle it appropriately. This feature is ideal for use cases revolving around catastrophe handling of major weather events in field operations and claims. As the customers supply more and more information with audio and visual data into the system the real time map identifies all of the incoming reports in order to evaluate the severity of the impacted area s and allow the business agents or representatives to review the visual evidence as the visual voicemails are coming in extending timely assistance to the customers based on the information the customers have submitted.

The GPS coordinates is also be used to route the video streaming through the appropriate media streaming server for communications occurring around the globe. This feature ensures high streaming quality by intelligently selecting the appropriate distance based and quality based server for communication between a visual stream provider and a viewer. For instance this feature can be used to connect a mobile streaming user in Europe to a server in Germany while connecting a mobile streaming user in North American to a server in New York.

Additionally the system enables the customer service support to sort the voicemail by urgency subject matter topic geographic location and other factors to resolve matters and conduct analytics. In one embodiment speech analytics is used to mine audio speech for data. Speech analytics are designed to capture the phonetic combinations special words numbers characters sounds tones vibration and speed of conversation to identify specific elements such as elements of high frustration or high level of customer satisfaction.

The speech analytics listens for trigger words to mark a specific time frame in a video stream. This is done by evaluating speech transcribing it into text along with timestamps of text occurrence and then querying the system to produce all the visual results that correspond to specific triggers. In this way the present system provides a way for a viewer to associate image s with certain words. To expedite such mining process speech recognition patterns can be applied to the speech analytics in order to mine larger segments of the video stream thereby allowing the system to analyze a larger volume of video streams in a shorter amount of time.

In addition the voice recognition events triggered by voice analytics map the video frames with the instant of the voice events in order to provide visual mapping of the contextual verbal data. For example if a customer says water a video frame is identified at that timestamp in order to map the video frame with water context and hence enables visual recognition and analytics.

In this regard the speech analytics of the present system can be used to define the time range of the video data mined before and after the keyword or speech trigger generate only the segments of the video or extract video frames that correspond to the word keywords or triggers rather than full length videos as they may be too long or unnecessary and apply speech analytical triggers in real time by cutting segments of live video as the trigger is recognized. The speech analytics can also be used to log historical video trending based on collections of video segments captured through the speech analytic triggers. This involves not only the analysis of the mass trending by multiple different customers but also the analysis based on the sequential capture of visual information from the same customer.

In some embodiments the speech analytics is configured to notify the viewer when certain trigger words are used. Based on the notifications the viewer can take appropriate actions. For example the viewer e.g. a customer service agent can flag the video as a high priority item and reorder it in a queue.

Referring now to there are shown workflow charts A B of providing a customer service support from a new ticket and from an existing ticket respectively. The method steps disclosed in the charts A B are applicable in both an enterprise and CRM environments. In order to provide customer service from a new ticket a customer must first contact a CSA. The CSA can then log into an enterprise server or a CRM account if he or she is not logged in already. As the CSA logs into his or her account the CSA instructs the customer to download the present application if the customer has not already done so. If the customer needs to download the application onto his or her mobile device he or she can do so without hanging up the call.

Using the mobile application the customer can begin streaming a real time video . To connect the customer provides a unique streaming identifier or a code and the CSA enters the code onto the dashboard . Once the code is entered and validated the CSA is directed to a ticket page and a ticket associated with the call or the stream is automatically created . It is contemplated that the ticket comprises a reference number. Once the ticket is created the CSA can associate the customer and or organization with the ticket .

If the customer is an existing customer the CSA can continue with the call and add notes as necessary. If the customer is a new customer and the customer does not exist in the database the CSA must add the customer to the database before proceeding. If the customer is part of an organization the CSA can create the organization to which the customer belongs to . If the customer is an individual and or not a part of an organization the CSA can add the customer as an individual . After the customer is added to the system the CSA can add notes to the call and watch real time video feed inside the enterprise system UI or CRM system UI.

If the customer is an existing customer and received a ticket and or a reference number from a previous call or if the customer was disconnected from a previous call the CSA can search for the customer or the customer account number and access the last opened ticket to access any notes or videos relating to the previous call. Any search terms may be autocompleted. Thereafter the CSA can enter a new session code on the ticket page to indicate that the instant call is a continuation of a previous call. In this way the same ticket can be used for multiple calls so long as the calls pertain to the same matter. Once the new session code is entered the CSA can add new notes .

It is contemplated that notes comprise summary of the interaction between the visual stream provider i.e. the customer and the viewer i.e. the CSA which include bookmarked locations of the video stream markings sketches drawings highlights and the like. In one embodiment a specific frame in a video may be bookmarked. The real time video can be bookmarked live from the mobile device without halting the video streaming using a button click a tap or a slide phone function or within the replay mode through the portal. Each bookmark identifies the frame at the specific time. Each bookmarked frame can be extracted into an image capture and the bookmarked images can be selected to produce a snapshot image report. Each bookmarked timestamp image or snapshot can be annotated in order to provide a short name phrase or a sentence that can be browsed quickly.

In another embodiment the viewer i.e. the CSA can pause a live video and sketch or draw directly on the video to explain or identify an item of interest to the visual stream provider i.e. the customer during a live transmission without disconnecting the communication. Once the drawing is completed it is sent over to the visual stream provider i.e. the customer to be displayed within his or her mobile application to help with real time guidance.

Similarly the visual stream provider e.g. the customer can draw directly on a mobile device over the live video capture in order to point out certain parts of the video or to direct the viewer s attention to a problem that needs to be addressed. Once the drawing is completed it is sent over to the viewer i.e. the agent or a dispatch user to be displayed within the enterprise portal. Once the customer interaction is completed or the customer disconnects the drawn pictures are saved can be accessed and viewed within the portal at a later time.

If a customer wishes to share a new or updated real time video during the session he or she must provide a new unique code for the CSA to enter. Upon the end of the transmission the video file and all of the notes as well as the ticket information are saved and stored in a database. The present invention is configured to identify a streaming connection without having to register the device or a mobile application through a login. This feature is particularly advantageous because traditional methods require a user to provide login credentials to provide authentication and authorization when using mobile devices to deliver the video without registering the visual stream provider i.e. the customer. To identify the real time visual streaming provider and the device he or she is using the mobile application communicates with a server in order to allocate a unique stream identifier for each real time video stream that is started.

It is noted that the unique stream identifier is not simply a unique identification of the mobile device that is streaming the content but also the actual unique identification of the actual stream that is generated even for multiple streams started on the same mobile device. Additionally it is noted that the unique stream identifier is generated when there is a network connection. In this regard when there is no network connection the user must wait until the network connection is established or reestablished before generating the unique stream identifier.

The unique stream identifier comprises numbers letters characters or a combination thereof. The mobile application user can share the unique stream identifier with one or more viewers via a text email hyperlink verbally and other methods. If the unique stream identifier is shared digitally i.e. via a text email or hyperlink a unique sharing message is generated for each real time stream per a viewing recipient. The viewer can enter the unique stream identifier to gain access to the stream and connect to the visual stream. When the unique stream identifier from a single streaming source is passed to numerous parties multiple parties can gain simultaneous access to the real time stream to view the video. In this way the present invention provides a way for unlimited viewers to access the real time stream.

In some embodiments the unique stream identifier is encoded to provide a high level of security through obfuscation of the stream URL link. Additionally it is contemplated that the stream identifier does not have to be completely unique in a sense that the stream identifier is only unique for a period of time to uniquely identify a stream within all the streams that are broadcasting at the given period of time. In this regard the unique stream identifier is only unique during a snapshot in time and the identifier can be reused and mapped to represent other streams at later time.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a public stream identifier. The public stream identifier does not change so that the public stream identifier is assigned to a particular video stream at all times. In such embodiment the mobile application supplying the real time streaming is configured to receive a notification each time a viewer joins to watch the stream. Optionally each viewer may be required to provide a pin a password or a secondary code to view the stream after connecting to the stream by entering the public stream identifier. Alternatively the visual stream provider may be prompted to permit or accept each viewer to watch the stream as each viewer is connected to the stream. In some embodiments the present system may be configured so as to automatically grant certain group of viewers e.g. viewers belonging to a permitted organization institution etc. to watch the stream.

In this regard both the live and prerecorded real time stream can be shared to unlimited number of simultaneous viewers within the organization for internal access as well as from the outside of the organization for external access. Sharing internally is done within the same department such as customer service in order to enroll the help of a senior support specialist for issue resolution. It can also be used for education and training purposes. Sharing externally on the other hand is done to share a video with a customer or another engineer or supervisor in the field.

A unique auditing process identifies all internal or external viewing parties that are accessing the live video as well as recorded video. This unique auditing process is applied specifically for organizations with heightened levels of security and accountability such as medical HIPAA regulation environments high security data center facilities and critical power electric utility infrastructure environments as some of the most prominent examples. The auditing process creates records to identify a video being accessed a time of access an IP address of the viewer a viewer ID if available cookies search queries data identifying the type of interaction with the video the time of every interaction with the video viewing time a time of egress method of sharing the video.

In yet another embodiment the present invention enables stream identification through a customer s account information so as to eliminate the need for a unique stream identifier or a public stream identifier. Stream identification through a customer s account information is accomplished by identifying recurring customers when a CSA initially associates a customer with a customer service organization on a customer management enterprise portal. During this interaction when the customer service help record or help ticket is logged customer s information can be pushed into the mobile device in a form of a unique secured token that uniquely identifies the user. If the customer deletes the mobile application and reinstalls it the next subsequent exchange would reload the information back to the mobile device from the server to recover the previous state that customer maintained. In this way the present invention uses contextual knowledge from the customer service workflow to uniquely identify the customer.

When the customer is utilizing a brand agnostic application to deliver the real time visual feed records of customer service calls to numerous organizations are pushed into the mobile application but will also create a record of all user based activities coming from the same mobile device within the enterprise server.

This exclusive functionality allows the customer s stream to be identifiable without the need of providing unique stream identification to the customer service support agent essentially creating a connection to the customer s visual stream without a code or a key. Instead the customer service support agent during the interaction is able to see whether or not the person communicating is currently supplying a real time visual stream and is able to access it without a unique identifier.

Referring now to there is shown a workflow chart of the public stream sharing method using text or email and voice. To share a video a mobile device user downloads the application to his or her mobile device . Once the application is downloaded the user logs into the application. If the user is not properly logged into the application the application is not enabled and or the password is invalid the user must attempt to log into the application again and log in or validate his or her account before proceeding.

Once logged in the user can share a link to the live stream with a viewer by copying and pasting the link in a text e.g. SMS or email and sending it to the viewer . When the viewer clicks on the link the viewer is directed to the website and is prompted to login to the system if the viewer is not already logged in. Once logged in the system determines whether the link contains a valid code. If the link contains a valid code a new ticket is automatically created. Thereafter the system determines whether the stream is associated with the tenant .

If the stream is associated with the tenant the system can determine whether the tenant public sharing configuration is on . If the tenant public sharing configuration is on the viewer can see the live video stream while maintaining communication with the user over a phone or a telephone hotline. The real time video is displayed on the screen in a browser and is associated with the customer or field assessment record ticket or claim file. As the name suggests the real time video streaming is viewed live. It is contemplated however that the streaming is also automatically recorded during transmission and can be replayed at a later time by either the visual stream provider or the viewer. If the stream is not associated with the tenant and or the tenant public sharing configuration is off the viewer does not have access to the stream .

In another embodiment the user can share code to the video live stream verbally with the viewer . It is contemplated that the user is already in voice communication with the viewer so that the viewer can receive the code over the phone and navigate to the web site during the call. Once on the web site the viewer can enter the code into a customer ticketing help desk or CRM system. If the code is valid the system automatically generates a new ticket and determines whether the stream is associated with the tenant . If the stream is associated with the tenant the system can determine whether the tenant public sharing configuration is on . If the tenant public sharing configuration is on the viewer can see the live video stream . If the stream is not associated with the tenant and or the tenant public sharing configuration is off the viewer does not have access to the stream .

Referring now to there is shown a workflow chart showing the process of sharing video from a mobile device. In the illustrated embodiment a customer can receive live video stream from a CSA via a widget that is embedded on a website. More specifically the widget may be embedded on a website for an online retailer. This enables workflows where the CSA is able to stream the live video data externally to the customer through the retailer s own portal i.e. the retailer s website while simultaneously being able to speak with the customer over the phone.

In operation a customer can contact a CSA over the phone to request information or assistance. During the call the customer logs into system if he or she is not already logged into the system . It is contemplated that the customer can log into the system in a conventional manner e.g. by entering a username and password. Once the CSA is connected to the customer over the phone the CSA can start streaming a live video feed . Concurrently the streaming or the demonstration is filed in the enterprise server .

The live video feed may include views of an item in question or tutorial on installation repair or use. Once the streaming begins the CSA can provide a keyword or a code to the customer via a link in a text or an email to share the demonstration . The customer can access the link by clicking on the link. Alternatively the customer can enter the keyword or code in a website video viewing widget. The system then determines whether standard or a customer real time viewing URL is used . The customer can then see the live video provided by CSA on the website .

Referring now to there is shown a workflow chart of the detailed streaming process. To start the application the mobile application is configured to request available API to the enterprise server which verifies the application name and version of the application that is activated. Once the application has been verified the mobile application determines whether API is available . If API is not available the mobile application displays an error message .

If the API is available the user can sign in by inputting email or username and password within the mobile application. The enterprise server then validates the user s credentials and the mobile application can determine that the sign in is successful. If the sign in is not successful the application can show a sign in error and prompt the user to re enter the email or username and password.

If the user signs in successfully he or she can start streaming real time video . If the demonstration is not valid the enterprise server creates a demonstration . If the demonstration is valid the mobile application requests video objects for the current demonstration and the enterprise server creates a video which is streamed via the mobile application and accessible via the video server .

To stop the stream the mobile application commands to stop streaming . The enterprise server can then update an existing video with the most current video . Additionally the request to stop streaming the video is received via the video server and stops the streaming .

Referring now to there are shown block diagrams of the end to end auditing connectivity and the redundancy connectivity respectively. The systems A B comprise a mobile live video application in communication with a media streaming cluster and an API web server wherein the API web server comprises an adapter . The media streaming cluster transmits data to the media storage . The media streaming cluster and the media storage further transmits data to an integrated system. In this regard an enterprise portal is designed to integrate with other systems so that these systems can embed and access real time videos and prerecorded videos within another portal.

In one embodiment the API web server is in communication with a server having a transaction audit module and a database as shown in . In another embodiment the API web server is in direct communication with the transaction audit module having a database therein as shown in . The adapter communicates with the integrated system that comprises a custom CRM Salesforce CRM Sugar CRM and another system . The integrated system communicates with a display device wherein the display device is configured to display a live video widget . Non limiting examples of the display device include monitors or screens on an electronic device.

Referring now to there is shown a diagram of the API connectivity for third party help desk and CRM applications. The first user device is in communication with at least one API web server having an adapter therein. The adapter communicates with an open source user management API which communicates with a database via a user management store. The API web server transmits transaction data to the database . The API web server also communicates with a user interface over REST. The user interface is transmitted to the display device which provides access to the live video widget .

The following non limiting examples of concrete use cases are presented from several different industries for the purposes of explaining the present invention. The business process however can be applied to many other uses both internally to the organization between employees as well as externally between a customer and the business.

Scenario 1 A homeowner s dishwasher broke down. The homeowner calls the manufacturer for support but while discussing the issue with the customer service support agent it becomes obvious that the agent does not understand exactly what broke in the unit. The customer service support agent instructs the homeowner to download the real time streaming application onto his tablet. Once the application is installed the homeowner delivers a live video stream to the agent so the agent can see precisely what the customer is talking about. The agent now can see the issue and knows exactly what parts need to be ordered and sends it to the satisfied customer.

Scenario 2 An insurance customer is involved in an automobile accident. The customer calls the claims and customer support center and notifies the company of the accident. The claims specialist records the information from the customer and sends the customer an SMS text message to his mobile phone with a link to the mobile application. The customer clicks on the link and installs the application. Once the application is installed the customer relays the code to the claims specialist and begins sending the live video stream so that the claims specialist can view the accident scene before any vehicles are moved out of position.

Scenario 3 A homeowner s property has been devastated by severe weather. He calls his insurance company and notifies the company of the damage. The claims specialist records the information from the customer and sends the customer an email with a link to the mobile application. The customer clicks on the link and installs the application on his mobile device. Once the application has been installed the customer relays the code to the claims specialist and begins sending the live video stream so that the claims specialist can view the damage to the property.

Scenario 4 An electrical contractor is working in the field and comes across what he believes to be the issue he has been trying to track down he needs an engineer from the local electric company to confirm his findings as being accurate however. He calls the electric company but they are unable to send any field engineers to his location. Instead the electric company representative sends an SMS with the mobile application link in it to the electrician and transfers his call to the engineering department. The electrician installs the application on his mobile phone and gives the engineer on the line a unique streaming code and begins streaming live video to the engineer while they discuss the issue. The engineer confirms the electrician s finding and the electrician makes the necessary repairs.

Scenario 5 A customer s printer has a paper jam and the customer is unable to clear it. She calls the customer service number and the agent gives her the instructions to install and start the mobile application on her phone. She starts the application and delivers a real time video to the agent enabling the agent to assist her more efficiently in resolving the issue. Following the agent s instructions she is able to remove the paper jam and get the printer back online quickly and easily.

Scenario 6 A customer s printer has a paper jam and the customer does not know how to clear it and does not have the time at the moment to fix it. With a single click she can describe and capture the issue the application automatically creates and queues a visual support ticket in the customer service support system for offline resolution. This recording can be replayed to other customer service representatives so that the customer does not have to repeatedly explain to different customer service agents. Once the recording is reviewed a customer support can contact the customer and help clear the paper jam.

It is therefore submitted that the instant invention has been shown and described in what is considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments. It is recognized however that departures may be made within the scope of the invention and that obvious modifications will occur to a person skilled in the art. With respect to the above description then it is to be realized that the optimum dimensional relationships for the parts of the invention to include variations in size materials shape form function and manner of operation assembly and use are deemed readily apparent and obvious to one skilled in the art and all equivalent relationships to those illustrated in the drawings and described in the specification are intended to be encompassed by the present invention.

Therefore the foregoing is considered as illustrative only of the principles of the invention. Further since numerous modifications and changes will readily occur to those skilled in the art it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact construction and operation shown and described and accordingly all suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to falling within the scope of the invention.

