---

title: Mobile device radio management
abstract: Alternative network access for a mobile device having a first radio and a second radio, or in some cases, only one radio can include using a first radio in a first connection with a first access point. Whether to establish a second connection with a second access point using a second radio is determined. The determination is based on a first set of access conditions associated with the first access point and a second set of access conditions associated with the second access point. The second connection is established with the second access point using the second radio based on the determining, which indicates establishing the second connection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09578674&OS=09578674&RS=09578674
owner: BANDWIDTHX INC.
number: 09578674
owner_city: Carlsbad
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160418
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 684 049 which was filed on Nov. 21 2012 and which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent App. No. 61 563 735 filed on Nov. 25 2011 U.S. Provisional Patent App. No. 61 618 318 filed on Mar. 30 2012 and U.S. Provisional Patent App. No. 61 671 583 filed on Jul. 13 2012 the entireties of all of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The subject matter discussed herein relates generally to wireless mobile devices and more particularly to the selection of network access for such mobile wireless devices.

Rapid growth in mobile devices such as smart phones tablets and connected laptops and the proliferation of applications in these devices have created a tremendous need to increase wireless data communication capacity.

Mobile devices use wireless communication services provided by one or more mobile operators and or technology companies. The wireless communication demand is often higher than the mobile operators and technology companies can provide.

The subject matter includes a method for obtaining alternative network access implemented by a mobile device having a first radio and a second radio. The method includes using the first radio in a connection. The throughput of the connection being above a threshold is detected. Based on access conditions an access point to establish a second connection using a second radio is determined. The second radio is then turned on. A connectivity test is performed with the access point using the second radio. A second connection is established using the second radio.

In another aspect a method for obtaining alternative network access is implemented by a mobile device having a first radio. The method includes determining to turn on the first radio based on the expiration of a wake up interval. The wake up interval is determined based upon one or more of a predetermined application being executed a location of the mobile device the dropping of a previous connection or a time period. An access node is identified using the radio. A connection is established with the access node using the first radio. A connectivity test with the access point is conducted using the first radio.

The subject matter described herein is taught by way of example implementations. Various details have been omitted for the sake of clarity and to avoid obscuring the subject matter. The examples shown below are directed to structures and functions for implementing systems and methods for providing alternative network access for connectivity of mobile wireless devices. Other features and advantages of the subject matter should be apparent from the following description.

The system for providing alternative network access may include the like of one or more selection engines and one or more proposal engines and accounting engines and and an alternative network access provider ANAP . The alternative network access provider environment includes structures and functions that enable exchange of connectivity services e.g. matching connectivity service providers with connectivity service users .

Alternative network access provider environment A shows for example that a mobile device may be within communication reach with connectivity providers and . For example mobile device may be a device that uses wireless communication e.g. a smartphone tablet device laptop computer etc. . Connectivity providers which may collectively be referred to as access points may provide wireless communication to wireless devices e.g. using one or more wireless communication protocols . An access point may be any source source of connectivity. In other words any source of connectivity e.g. connectivity providers and may be referred to as an access point. An access point may be stationary with a wired connection through an ISP to the Internet or another communication network. An access point may be a mobile device connected to for example a 3G or 4G network or any available connection e.g. for backhaul to the Internet or other communication network. The mobile device e.g. serving as an access point provides connectivity to other mobile devices. An access point is a device that provides wireless connectivity to a communication network utilizing any wireless protocol e.g. the above mentioned protocols that enables a mobile device to establish a connection to a communication network. A communication network is any network and or access that in combination or alone is capable of providing data to a mobile device. One example of a communication network is the Internet.

Access points may be owned and or operated by different entities. Connectivity provider may be one or more cells e.g. cell towers of a cellular network. Connectivity providers and are equipped and or configured with the capability to provide connectivity services to mobile device for voice and or data communication. Each of the connectivity providers and may use one or more wireless communication protocols such as 2G e.g. GSM GPRS EDGE iDEN TDMA CDMA 3G e.g. CDMA2000 1X EVDO P25 LMR WCDMA UMTS HSPA 4G e.g. LTE WiMAX VoIP IMS IPTV WLAN Wi Fi e.g. one or more of the family of 802.11 standards from IEEE and the like Bluetooth and other radio based wireless protocols to communicate with mobile devices e.g. mobile device . The protocols e.g. those of 2G 3G 4G LTE and later used by a cell tower of a cellular network may be referred to as cellular protocols. Mobile device is equipped and or configured with the protocols used by the connectivity providers to communicate with mobile device . The spelled out terms of the acronyms used herein are provided at in the last paragraph. 

Access point may for example be a Wi Fi access point owned and or operated by the user of mobile device . Access point may be a free access point e.g. provided at a city library access point may be a commercial based access point access point may be provided e.g. for a fee or subscription by a vendor or business e.g. a coffee shop or an internet service provider and access points may be provided by other persons businesses and or entities. Connectivity provider e.g. a mobile network operator may be one or more cell sites of the cellular network that provide cellular and other wireless communication services to mobile device . For example cell sites of connectivity provider may support 3G and or 4G e.g. LTE WiMAX protocols. Services provided by connectivity providers and may be announced or broadcasted to mobile device and or alternative network access provider using for example proposal engines.

The proposal engines can be implemented in the access points e.g. proposal engine in access point in a network not shown or on computing devices e.g. data center servers etc. of alternative network access provider e.g. proposal engine that communicates with the mobile device . The proposal engine provides for example access or a reference to the terms and conditions e.g. terms and conditions for using a particular connection or connections. Mobile device may determine whether to use services provided by a connectivity provider based on its terms and conditions and possibly various other data from other sources including measurements of signal strength or other parameters by the device.

Mobile device may use connectivity services for a new communication or an existing communication e.g. changing and or adding connectivity services . For example when mobile device needs to initiate a new communication mobile device may receive information on available access points and select one two or more access points to use for the new communication based on the provided information about the access points e.g. terms and conditions for connectivity services and possibly various other data from other sources . Mobile device may change or add connectivity services providers for an existing communication. For example when mobile device has changed location or the characteristics of the existing communication e.g. performance have changed mobile device may request information on available access points and select one or more access points to use for the existing communication based on the provided information above the access points e.g. terms and conditions for connectivity services and possibly various other data from other sources . Information on and or about an available access point e.g. access point may be provided by the access point e.g. proposal engine of access point and or alternative network access provider e.g. proposal engine .

Mobile device may determine select or identify one or more available connectivity providers and to connect with e.g. for connectivity services using a selection engine. In some implementations a connectivity provider may be selected exclusively for a specific application e.g. a gaming application . The selection engine can be implemented as a module that can work inside the mobile device e.g. selection engine or on computing device of alternative network access provider e.g. selection engine that communicates a selection with the mobile device or as a cooperative combination of functions executed on the mobile device and on a server computer of alternative network access provider .

A selection engine may determine to select a connectivity provider based on information associated with the specific access point as established by the connectivity provider e.g. terms and conditions of connectivity services . The connectivity provider controls and or manages the access point and its connection to the communication network or the Internet. In some implementations information associated with a currently used access point may be considered in deciding to select an alternative or additional access point. Once a determination is made to select an access point the access point may be selected using any identifying information e.g. a SSID BSSID MAC address a unique identifier a combination thereof or the like .

Services used e.g. by mobile device and services provided e.g. by a connectivity providers or may be accounted for using accounting engines. The accounting engines can be implemented in mobile device e.g. accounting engine and or in one or more access points or in another computing device in the network connected to the access point for example in an access control gateway e.g. accounting engine that keep track of the usage of the connections and report it to the alternative network access provider .

In some cases the accounting engines in the access point or network or access control gateway are controlled by the connectivity provider that controls and manages the access points. In these cases they may not report the usage to ANAP but rather use the usage records collected by accounting engine as a means of auditing the usage records collected by the accounting engine and reported to ANAP . For example during or after the end of a communication mobile device may report usage records to ANAP . An access point e.g. access point used by mobile device may report usage records not shown to ANAP or use them for auditing purposes as mentioned above. ANAP may store usage records e.g. usage records for reporting billing and or issuing payments for the connectivity services on record to be described in below .

In some implementations one or more accounting engines can be implemented outside of mobile device and access points such as at an access gateway server in the network and or on one or more servers of the alternative network access provider .

A alternative network access provider environment which may be referred to as an alternative network access provider ecosystem e.g. proposal engines selections engines accounting engines and alternative network access provider all of which are described in further details below enables wireless devices e.g. mobile device to use wireless connectivity services from a variety of connectivity services providers e.g. access points . From the perspective of the connectivity services providers an alternative network access provider environment enables connectivity services providers to provide services to different wireless devices.

The alternative network access provider environment enables commerce or micro commerce on providing data connectivity e.g. bandwidth or data connectivity or transfer services measured either as the number of bytes transferred over each connection or as time the connection was available or any other parameter recorded as a usage record . Embodiments of alternative network access provider can include agreements e.g. terms and conditions with wireless operators service providers and and or individual mobile device users e.g. user of mobile device as well as with a number of individuals and or companies that own or control Wi Fi access points and with wired and or wireless Internet service providers . For example an Internet service provider may deploy access point as a wireless gateway or hot spot.

A mobile wireless device that participates in the alternative network access provider system may have the ability to establish multiple wireless connections and or change one or more wireless connections. For simplicity a system that utilizes both Wi Fi and 3G wireless connections is described but the same solution can include other available wireless connections 2G and or 4G Bluetooth and or any other wireless radio access . Managing this connectivity in the mobile device or available to the mobile device through a network connection and operating on an alternative network access provider server system is a module referred to as the selection engine and . The selection engine bases its operation on rules and policies and that have been set either by the wireless operator or the end user of the mobile device or any combination of rules and policies and or . In some implementations there is a selection engine both on the device and on the server system and the two operate in tandem using rules stored on both the device and the server. In some cases some rules are controlled by the operator and others are at the discretion of the user. There can be a set of defaults so that the user does not need to do anything to activate the system.

In one implementation of the selection engine the rules and policies together with information about access points in the vicinity of the mobile device may be downloaded to the mobile device and are subsequently used to make an initial decision of connecting using the selection engine when no other network connection of sufficient quality and speed is available. This initial decision may be based on a simpler and less dynamic set of rules and information. Once a connection to the server and the selection engine is established the rules and policies by selection engine are used together with other information to revisit and possibly revise the initial selection. The rules and policies may have a higher frequency of updating than the rules and policies . Also the rules and policies may be more complex and include more parameters than the rules and policies . In case the decision is revised to abandon the connection because a rule or policy there may be a minimum time period until the connection is severed to avoid a negative user experience of enjoying only a momentary connection.

The rules and policies and or control which of the available connections will be selected at any given time for each of the applications that need a data connection. The level of sophistication in the selection process may vary among different implementations. For example the following factors may be included in the decision making e.g. in selecting the connections to use . These factors or a subset of these factors may be collected e.g. data associated with the factors for each connection that the mobile device can detect at the time of selecting the connection to use for each application. The factors or access conditions include 

In some implementations some of the connection alternatives may have lower cost or be free. For example one or more access point e.g. access point but may be sponsored by a business that provides free wireless access in exchange with acceptance of commercial messages and advertising. Business entities e.g. gaming companies may provide free access to certain web sites or services or by certain applications e.g. gaming applications . For example service providers or vendors may sponsor connectivity that allows the end user to visit their website and make purchases. Other access points may offer lower cost or free connectivity but require the right to collect location based information of the user or may require responses to surveys. One example of useful location based information would be to collect the GPS system location of devices at specific intervals to measure the speed of traffic flows on roads and freeways. This could be a commitment by the mobile device user that would be valid even when the system is connected through the regular 3G network but could still earn privileges to use alternative network access provider connections as a form of compensation.

The selection engine is the function that makes the selections about which data connection to use for each of the applications in the Mobile wireless device. In one embodiment this is done on a real time moment to moment basis based on the rules and policies and current information including price information and possibly other information as listed above about each available connection. This information may be available directly from the access point for example by using the recently established 802.11u communication standard or it may be obtained from the alternative network access provider based on a reference system that is explained in more detail in the section proposal engine below.

In one embodiment the selection engine uses specific criteria set by the operator or the device user that authorizes the use of connections based on a combination of two main parameters The speed or other quality parameter of the connection that is currently available to the device in the 3G or 4G system from the operator and the cost of an alternative supposedly better or faster connection through the alternative network access provider system. The system may have thresholds for the quality parameter and acceptable cost. For example the tiers could be a at 300 kb per second and cost of up to three cents per megabyte is authorized b at 100 kb per second the cost of up to five cents per megabyte is acceptable and so on.

In an embodiment where the selection engine is hosted on a computer device on the network or in the alternative network access provider system the mobile device will send the set of selection factors and parameters to the selection engine on the computer system and the selection engine will return to the mobile device the identifying information and the necessary authentication information for connecting to a connectivity provider that will provide the selected connection.

In another embodiment where the selection engine is primarily hosted by the mobile device the mobile device will use the selection factors available from the proposal engine as described in the next section to make the selection of an access point through which it will establish a connection. It will then communicate this information to alternative network access provider and in return receive the authentication information that will enable the connection. The authentication information can be for example transmitted and or exchanged using a protocol e.g. 802.11x that is the same or different from the protocol used in communication.

In another embodiment the selection engine will compare the offered selling price Ask price and the offered buy price Bid price which both are dependent on a number of parameters as described above. In cases that the Ask price plus a possible commission or other compensation for the ANAP system added on by the selection engine is lower than the Bid price the selection engine establishes a clearing price for the connectivity service. This price may be a price per Byte transmitted or time of connectivity or any other parameter. This clearing price is then applied by the accounting engine for establishing the necessary payments and settlements between the buyer and the seller.

Once a connection is selected the selection engine will provide to the mobile device any information that is necessary to establish the connection through the selected access point. This authentication and authorization information may include wireless passphrases or passwords account identification information and passwords it may also include credentials for an access control gateway it may include detailed information about how to post the user name and password to a page on an access control captive portal page or it may include digital certificates and other more advanced access control tokens and parameters. The selection engine controls these authentication and authorization elements which may be stored in encrypted form either in the selection engine database within the selection engine or . In case of storage in the parameters may be downloaded together with the other information about the access points in the vicinity of the mobile device. These parameters may have expiration times and they may be changed at regular intervals. The parameters are made available to the mobile device s connection functions only at the time of connection and are subsequently erased from its memory. The end user will not have any access or visibility to the authentication or authorization parameters used by the selection engine except in cases where the end user provides such parameters for the system to use.

In one embodiment based on the connectivity selections and subsequent data traffic through each connection the mobile wireless device creates a detailed record on the actual use of each of the alternative connections utilizing another module called the accounting engine. At intervals the accounting engine transmits the usage record to the alternative network access provider including its own identifying information and the identifying information of each of the access points that provided the connectivity for each use identification of the selected buyer of the connection the negotiated price point for the connection as well as information about the terms and conditions in force at the time of the use. The usage data can be in the form of numbers of sent and received data bytes time duration of connectivity or any other relevant variable describing the use. These record keeping functions are described in more detail in the section about the accounting engine below. The reporting of the connection parameters can be performed in any manner. For example the reporting can be performed using the RADIUS accounting standard for mobile devices.

The usage data collected at the mobile device may also include information about the application that was using the data and about websites or other resources that were accessed by the application during the data use. This information may also include other parameters of the connectivity service for example the connection speed jitter latency or other performance characteristics. It may be collected by the mobile device e.g. using its accounting engine for all of the data including both the data provided by the alternative connections to and the connection including in situations where is the cellular data service provider for the mobile device. This data may be communicated to ANAP and used in directing billing to possible sponsors of wireless connectivity for example providers of game or other entertainment applications or content or companies that wish to sponsor visits to their web sites where they may sell goods or services.

In some implementations the operating system e.g. Android or iOS or Windows operating system in the mobile device enables use of mobile data by any application and regardless of the web sites or resources that are accessed. In such case the ANAP system and the accounting engine may include a specific browser version for accessing web sites and other resources on the network that controls and limits the resources that can be accesses using the accounting engine controlled browser. The browser accounting engine also includes a module that keeps track of the web sites visited and other resources accessed and stores the number of bytes used for each access of a web site web page or resource. This information can then later be used to allocate usage per resource. The system can be used to enable third parties such as gaming application providers web stores or content providers sponsor or provide free or reduced cost access to end users specifically for accessing their products and services on the web. The tracking may cover any and all available access points and networks and the stotred usage data can be used bt the ANAP to provide appropriate crediting of charging records to acclocate the costs according to the sponsorship arrangements.

Other statistics about the location of the device signal quality throughput performance of the access points and other parameters regarding connectivity such as the speed and availability for connecting through the mobile operators 3G or 4G systems and the specific time and location or the used cell tower ID of these observations may be collected and transmitted to alternative network access provider . The alternative network access provider may use this data to compile useful information about the quality of connectivity in various locations and the need for data capacity including time of use data and historical trends. This information could be sold to wireless network operators or be made available possibly for a fee or in the form of a marketing campaign to owners or potential future owners of access points or residents or owners of buildings and other structures in each area. The information could be used by such operators and owners to make decisions about pricing or adding capacity in the form of registering existing access points with alternative network access provider installing new Wi Fi access points or other alternative networks. These actions would provide an opportunity to the owners of the buildings or access points to participate in the commerce of bandwidth through the alternative network access provider.

It is important to note that selection engine may use several different radio connections simultaneously. These may be selected individually for different applications running on the mobile device or may be aggregated to provide a higher total data transmission capability for a single application. In other words mobile devices can pool resources to increase the data transmission speed. This is described in more detail below in the section about resource pooling.

The selection engine uses a combination of information to implement the rules and policies for selecting connectivity. For example it is aware of the connections provided directly by the wireless operator using their own network and is familiar with the connectivity through access points that have been configured to the wireless device by the end user. For example these would include the access points at the user s home and office and other locations where free connectivity is available. However in the alternative network access provider system a new and important source of real time information about connectivity is available from a proposal engine residing in third party access points or in the network or cloud at a location from which it can be accessed by the selection engine . In order to participate in providing the enhanced connectivity through the alternative network access provider each access point must have a proposal engine or provide a reference to a proposal engine.

The proposal engine e.g. proposal engine or may be implemented for example as a module for or associated with each access point. A proposal engine associated with an access point provides information about that access point e.g. the availability connectivity services provided and or other information to mobile devices e.g. to the selection engines associated with the mobile devices . This information may include the terms and conditions including the price Ts Cs of use of connectivity through the access point and may include detailed information about the characteristics of the connection. Implementations of the proposal engine may vary depending on the sophistication and capabilities of the access point device and the organization or individual that owns or controls the access point as well as the technical and business arrangements that provide the internet connectivity for the access point.

In some implementations a proposal engine associated with an access point may be deployed outside the access point e.g. by a computing device on a network at a cloud computing resource of the alternative network access provider or its partner etc. . These implementations allow access points that can only broadcast their SSID and or a unique identifier e.g. a BSSID MAC address etc. to be used in an alternative network access provider environment to provide connectivity services to more mobile devices e.g. mobile devices not manually configured to use the access points .

Selection engines of mobile devices that can receive the beacons of the specific access point can obtain the Ts Cs and other information from the alternative network access provider by using the identifying information for example SSID a BSSID MAC address a unique identifier of the access point as a reference. In one possible implementation this is facilitated by including in the SSID of the access point an indication or information about its participation in alternative network access provider for example by including a specific string of characters such as the letters ANAP in the SSID . The selection engine may check for the Ts Cs at an alternative network access provider without having to go through lists of participants BSSIDs or MAC addresses unique identifiers etc. . In some implementations alternative network access provider provides periodic downloads of BSSIDs or MAC addresses unique identifiers etc. SSIDs location associated Ts Cs and any other identifying information about the participating access points that are located in the vicinity of the current location of the mobile device. This expedites access to the relevant Ts Cs and makes it possible to have this information available even in situations where the device does not have an open data connection to the internet or alternative network access provider e.g. cellular devices that cannot see a cell or Wi Fi only devices . The location information can be obtained from the mobile device s GPS system if available or by having the access point transmit SSID s or BSSIDs MAC addresses unique identifiers etc. of access points whether alternative network access provider registered or not in its range and having the alternative network access provider system correlate these to a database of access point locations. For rapidly changing locations mobile device in a moving vehicle alternative network access provider can extend the range of access points to include in the direction of the movement. This process of maintaining connectivity in this alternative is illustrated in . The downloads may be scheduled to happen on regular intervals or they may be scheduled to take place every time a device has network access possibly establishing a minimum interval between downloads . This mechanism is particularly important to enable devices that may only have one network access system such as a WiFi only tablet or Personal Computing device.

This information is made available for a number of access points within a certain radius e.g. 10 miles around the current location of the device or around a location that the device owner has specified through the user interface. At block the mobile device may compare connectivity options e.g. with existing using and or other access points using current rules and or policies then scan for access points and obtains identifying information for the ones in range. It also measures the signal strengths of each. At block the device then combines the pre loaded information and locally available information from the device to make the determination of which connection is the best. In one implementation the rule may be as follows set a threshold value for the signal strength this would typically correspond to a good signal adequate to get a good high speed connection above this signal level the decision is made based on price. The lowest cost wins. Below the threshold decision of choosing the AP is based on signal strength. As long as the offered buy price is higher than the offered sell price the AP with the best signal is selected. Once a connection is established it may be re evaluated in light of the above rules and information if the signal strength falls below a set threshold or it is possible that a timer is set to re valuate at specific intervals to see if a lower cost or a better signal connection is available. The intervals may be static or they may be dependent on the price of the connection or any other parameter known to the device.

At block a connection or communication may be transferred from an existing connection to the newly established connection. For example the mobile device and or the access point at the other end of the existing connection may disassociate the communication. The mobile device and or the newly identified access point at the other end of the new connection may associate the communication. At block the mobile device may report details of use of a previous connection e.g. one that has been disassociated to the ANAP system if the access to the disassociated access point is facilitated by the ANAP system . At block usage information may be stored by the ANAP system for billing payment analysis and or other purposes.

The access point may store the Ts Cs and other information and provide them directly over the wireless link to the selection engine of each mobile device that is requesting to receive them. This could be done using the 802.11u standard if both devices are capable of using this protocol. It may be that a multi round two way negotiation or an auction about the Ts Cs is automatically carried out between devices. In this case the access point may be offering a price the device could counter with a lower price and the policies in the AP may enable it to offer another price based on the counter offer and so on. The process of maintaining connectivity in an environment where some access points have internal proposal engines and others rely on proposal engines at alternative network access provider is illustrated in .

The Ts Cs may have short periods of validity and connectivity may be re negotiated at specific intervals as situations in terms of needs and available capacity will constantly vary. In case the proposal engine for the access point is implemented at the alternative network access provider the validity periods will be automatically downloaded to the mobile device together with the other terms and conditions by the selection engine. In case both the selection engine and the proposal engine may be hosted on servers of the alternative network access provider the information about the Ts Cs and their validity periods is made available to both within the computer system environment. In some implementations the alternative network access provider system can instruct a mobile device to immediately terminate a connection with an access point and can temporarily or permanently block the mobile device from that access point.

The level of sophistication in the terms and conditions may vary between implementations but in one implementation embodiment the following factors or access conditions include 

Other information pertaining to the terms and conditions of using the access point may be relevant. For example some access points may belong to a network of hotspots controlled by a wireless operator or wireless ISP that offers fixed fee or other special pricing to subscribers of their services. In case the mobile device is a subscriber to the network the terms and conditions would normally be stored in the selection engine and the hotspot access point would provide information identifying it belongs to the group for example in its SSID . Alternatively information about the AP belonging to a specific group of wireless ISP hotspots and its impact to the cost of using it can be communicated through the proposal engine just like for other access points.

There may be special information transmitted by the mobile carrier s own network. For example the desirability from the carrier s point of view to transfer the connection to an available Wi Fi access point may depend on the load on the tower or cell to which the device is connected to. To manage the connections in an optimal way the carrier s proposal engine may instruct the selection engine in a wireless device at a particular time to seek the lowest price alternative even when the tower or cell connection would be available if the load on the tower or cell connection is high.

Other parameters affecting the Ts Cs provided by the proposal engine were also illustrated above in the section about which parameters may be used by the selection engine to select the connection.

Whether all of these factors are included in the decision making about the connection will depend on the level of sophistication on the proposal and selection engines. For example it is possible that the selection engine is capable of selecting based on signal strength and price. However more sophisticated decisions are possible by providing more information and alternatives in the terms and conditions by the proposal engine and increasing the capabilities in the selection engine.

Regardless of what level of sophistication is used in the decision making each mobile device participating in the alternative network access provider system will use connections through different access points at different times. In order to keep track of the actual use of each connection and to provide information for compensation and settlements each mobile device has an accounting engine. Many of the access points may use either an embedded or a cloud based accounting engine to track the capacity that it has provided to various mobile devices.

In one embodiment the accounting engine may use the RADIUS standard WRIX Wireless Roaming Intermediary Exchange or another standard for access authorization and accounting to report and keep track of usage by the mobile devices.

The accounting engine collects and provides the data for the micro commerce in bandwidth which is used to reward and incentivize all the participants in the ecosystem. The accounting engine keeps track of the capacity utilized by the mobile device through each of the connections that are enabled by the alternative network access provider as well as the specific terms and conditions and the clearing price established between the proposal and the selection engine for each specific use of the connectivity.

As a minimum condition for operating in the alternative network access provider system for example each mobile device needs to have an accounting engine or be covered by an accounting engine that is implemented on a gateway server connected to the access point. In another implementation embodiment the accounting engine is implemented in the mobile device or as a split implementation with one part being implemented in the mobile device for reporting the usage and another part being implemented on a server computer at the alternative network access provider. In this case the accounting engine receives the usage reports from the mobile device and or the access point or gateway server. At least in a part of the connections the accounting engine receives a usage report both from the mobile device and from the access point or gateway server. This provides an opportunity to audit the reports coming from the mobile devices to make sure that the actual usage is reported correctly. In one implementation embodiment the transmissions from the mobile to alternative network access provider use an authentication and digital signature mechanism described below in the section about authentication and security.

To the extent the capability is available in the access points they may include an accounting engine that can collect information about usage of data capacity by each mobile device. If such records are collected and made available to the alternative network access provider they may be recompiled and used to verify the usage records provided by the accounting engines in the mobile devices. In one implementation the system of the alternative network access provider automatically logs into the administrator s interface of the registered access points using credentials provided by the access point owners during initial registration with the alternative network access provider in order to retrieve information about usage of connectivity by various mobile devices. This capability and function may be utilized in a subset of access points however even so it provides a very useful auditing function to control that the reporting by the mobile devices is accurate.

The alternative network access provider manages all the information to enable the micro commerce between owners of access points the ISPs wireless operators and possible the end users of mobile devices. The exchange further manages the billing and payments between all parties see . In one embodiment the alternative network access provider is implemented as modules on a server.

Initially when an access point is added to the alternative network access provider it s SSID and other identifying information such as the BSSID MAC address unique identifier etc. are registered with the exchange.

Note that many access points can have dual SSIDs and may establish priorities for traffic in each identity. This way a home user can dictate that any traffic routed to the homeowners own devices will have priority and only excess capacity in the connection is made available for commerce through the alternative network access provider. In other cases people can set up separate access points connected to the Ethernet ports of their home gateways and register these for the alternative network access provider. In yet other implementations the systems have provisions and policies to allocate different priorities for traffic with different client devices. In these cases the access point owners may either manually select high priority devices or the system may be programmed to automatically give higher priority to devices with high signal strengths and frequent long term connections presumably devices that belong to the owners of the access points .

If the access point or gateway has the capability of transmitting its price and other proposal information directly to connected devices for example by utilizing the 802.11u protocol then that may be the preferred mechanism of automatically negotiating commerce on connectivity. Alternatively the access point owner can store terms and conditions at the alternative network access provider linked to its specific BSSID MAC address unique identifier etc. and other identifying information. In this alternative the selection engine will get the terms and conditions from the alternative network access provider. As explained in the section about proposal engine the alternative network access provider can be proactive and download the SSID s authentication information and Ts Cs for using the connection automatically to the mobile device for all the alternative network access provider registered access points that are in the vicinity of the mobile device at any given time. The location of the mobile device can be made available to the alternative network access provider either by transmitting the GPS coordinates of the device or by transmitting information about access points in range of the mobile device or by well known network based triangulation methods. The alternative network access provider can correlate this information to a database about location coordinates of access points.

The second large set of information that the alternative network access provider manages is the usage records. As selection engines make decisions about which connections to use for various applications the wireless device will transmit and receive data using different access points at different times.

The actual usage gets recorded by the accounting engine and detailed information about the use is transmitted to the alternative network access provider. Usage data may include for example the amount of data transmitted and received which can be broken down by time of use the application that transmits and received data etc. At least in cases where the mobile wireless device received the proposal engine information directly from the access point the terms and conditions and clearing price in force at the time of the usage may get recorded by the accounting engine. As explained above the alternative network access provider may get usage information from the access points or access control gateways that may be connected to multiple access points. This may be used for billing and for verifying the correctness of information from the mobile devices. One implementation of obtaining this information through the administration interface was described above in the section about accounting engine. In another implementation usage information may be available from gateway servers in the network of access points. Such servers may be operated for example by wireless ISPs or operators of enterprise networks. The usage information for each subscriber and for each access point is then compiled in different ways and used as the basis for settling the compensation for using the bandwidth with all the parties involved.

The communication between the accounting engine and the alternative network access provider may use any protocols or standards e.g. the RADIUS standard .

Depending on the agreements between various parties the bandwidth or data transmission services may be sold by the alternative network access provider to the wireless operators who in turn will bill their customers for its use in accordance with their subscription agreements with each customer. As described above many other possible buyers of connectivity services may also be involved.

Alternatively the alternative network access provider may establish direct relationships with the end users of mobile devices and sell the alternative network access provider capacity directly to the end users. This may be through fixed price or per use or other creative commercial arrangements using prepaid postpaid or barter agreements for example the owners of access points usually are the owners of mobile devices and may receive some or all of their mobile use of the alternative network access provider bandwidth in exchange of making their access point s bandwidth available for other mobile devises registered with the alternative network access provider .

Third party aggregators can create agreements with end users of wireless mobile devices or with owners of access points and negotiate wholesale terms with the alternative network access provider. Regardless of how the selling of bandwidth is organized there are on the other side of the commerce transactions the providers of the data transmission capability the owners of the access points. The alternative network access provider uses the information provided by the accounting engines for settling the accounts with the bandwidth providers. Which may be the hotspot providers or WISPs or new kinds of ISP s in some cases operating together with individual access point owners or various aggregators of Wi Fi capacity. The same accounting engine data this time aggregated by the ISPs can be used for providing an appropriate and agreed compensation to the ISPs.

In practical terms any compensation to the individual homeowners who have registered their access points in the alternative network access provider may be provided through their ISPs. In this alternative embodiment the payments received from the alternative network access provider will be applied to the invoice that the ISP would be sending to the owner of access point for the ISP s service. Often the ISP provides a bundle of services including telephony and television services. Therefore the total bill may be large enough so that this compensation mechanism can be used even for access point owners that have great deal of the alternative network access provider traffic flowing through their connection.

One more set of participants in the commerce is the sponsors of connectivity. Through agreements with hotspot owner organizations or even individual access point owners various companies may offer to pay for bandwidth in return for ability to provide advertisements or commercial messages to the end users. As mentioned in the section about proposal engine other forms of compensation by the end users may be used. It may be possible that the use of bandwidth is sponsored for accessing specific websites or other services. For example access to sites that offer specific products for sale may be sponsored by the owners of the sites. In these cases the alternative network access provider will provide billing to and collect payments from the sponsors for the usage of the sponsored bandwidth.

The alternative network access provider enables local micro commerce in connectivity and data transfer capacity by making information available to potential buyers users of wireless mobile devices from potential sellers owners of access points and by executing the micro commerce transactions. In the process the alternative network access provider will accrue detailed information about the need acceptable pricing and availability of connectivity and data transfer capacity in different locations and at different times. There are several ways of charging for the service produced by the alternative network access provider. Some preferred alternatives are listed in the following.

The functions of the alternative network access provider have been described as they would be used for the purpose of providing connectivity and capacity to wireless devices through essentially stationary access points with wired connections through ISPs. However the same system can be used in utilizing connections that are transmitted via other mobile devices. In this scenario each of the mobile devices includes a proposal engine and can offer to transmit a connection in essence acting as a mobile access point. The network connection for this mobile access point can in this scenario be provided by the network operator through its infrastructure or it can be routed through the Wi Fi access point for example utilizing the alternative network access provider mechanism as described above in cases where more than one Wi Fi radio system and frequency channel are available in the device. This use of the alternative network access provider for pooling wireless connections is illustrated in .

There are already on the market solutions in which mobile smart phones act as Wi Fi access points for other devices. What is added to this mechanism are the functions that make it possible for any device to support other devices in this fashion and get compensated for this service in accordance with terms and conditions negotiated between the devices or though the alternative network access provider with real time pricing based on the alternative network access provider functions. The alternative network access provider can be implemented to handle the compensation and settlements between the devices.

There are a rapidly growing number of Machine to Machine M2M wireless modules deployed for purposes of providing asset tracking and monitoring services. These systems may be using a fraction of the capacity of the connection. Adding Wi Fi function and registering the devices in the alternative network access provider could in many cases turn them into revenue sources.

In addition the connection can be transmitted through several wireless devices forming a mesh network. Again the alternative network access provider mechanism for accounting for the usage and providing payments to participants would be the commercially enabling new dimension to previously proposed mesh network systems.

The benefits derived from transmitting connections between mobile devices include providing further connectivity in areas that otherwise would not have sufficient capacity. However a more frequent and important benefit is pooling the data connectivity resources of several devices using the peer to peer wireless connectivity. Much of the usage of the web may include intermittent downloading of new files songs webpages or images and this activity between different devices may be asynchronous. Therefore pooling the connectivity resources will in effect increase the speed in the user experience of all participants in the connectivity pool. All the various radio resources Wi Fi Bluetooth and other radio systems on each device can be utilized in establishing connections between mobile devices and connections to the Internet. Again the enabling systems and methods for obtaining these benefits are the alternative network access provider functionality as explained above.

The connection pooling provides a barter trading opportunity. Since the same devices participating in the connection pooling will be providing connectivity as well as utilizing connectivity provided by others the net cost for each participant may be positive or negative depending on the usage patterns.

This same resource pooling method applies to pooling between stationary access points as well. At the current time in most cases local area wireless network speeds are many times higher than wide area network connectivity through cable modem DSL or even fiber connections. In cases where there are multiple radios in each access point similar peer to peer connectivity can provide access to several simultaneous wide area network connections. Situations with at least two wireless radios per access point are becoming more common as dual band 2.4 and 5 GHz access points will gradually gain a higher share of the installed base. Again the micro commerce system of the alternative network access provider can handle the enabling of access point resource pooling and the appropriate compensation to each participant in the pool. The observations about intermittent downloading and benefits to user experience of all participants apply to this stationary case as it did for the mobile case. In practice resource pooling can include both mobile and stationary devices operating in a mixed mode pooling configuration.

There may be two or more nested levels of access in a Wi Fi implementation for accessing the internet through the alternative network access provider one deals with the wireless access to the access point itself and the other controls the access to the Internet. Using encryption and password access to secure the connection to the access point is optional in the alternative network access provider system. The more important aspect for the alternative network access provider functions is the authentication authorization access control and usage measurement and recording accounting of access and data traffic to the internet or possibly to the Mobile Operator s core service system. Similar systems of authentication and access control can be used at both levels of access.

In some implementations access control and accounting functions may be managed using one or more other methods e.g. Extended Authentication Protocol EAP Wireless Internet Provider roaming WISPr and the like .

In one implementation when initially registering with the alternative network access provider each mobile device establishes a public private key in a standard PKI infrastructure system. The private key resides in the mobile device and is used to authenticate the device to obtain information about connecting to the alternative network access provider enabled access points. In a similar fashion the usage records can be encrypted using the private key of the mobile device and a digest of them can be added encrypted using the public key of the alternative network access provider to make sure that they have not been altered during the transmission and storage. For access points that are capable of handling similar security functions a corresponding public private key combination may be established when they register for the alternative network access provider.

The security aspect for the access control information for the wireless connection specifically can be handled for example in the following way in cases where the Ts Cs of the proposal engine are obtained from the alternative network access provider it is possible to control security by transmitting the access point authentication password to the participating mobile device encrypted with its public key after the device has signaled acceptance of the Ts Cs for using the connection through the particular access point.

In one implementation the alternative network access provider changes the password or access credentials of participating access points at specific intervals and coordinates these changes with all of the authorized devices including the client devices of the access point owner and the devices to which access is provided through the alternative network access provider commerce arrangement. In this solution each access point owner registers all of the authorized client devices with the alternative network access provider so they can participate in this continuous password change process.

In another implementation the sequence of future passwords is generated using an algorithm that is made available to all authorized devices devices of the access point owner which algorithm may be time based and use tables of randomly generated passwords. The alternative network access provider has the same synchronized password generation system so it can provide passwords to the devices that it is enabling as a result of a alternative network access provider commerce transaction.

In yet another implementation the alternative network access provider provides limited connectivity to all devices through the access point to an authentication server that can automatically provide access to devices pre authorized by the access point owner or to devices that can input a password. The same authentication server can then be used to manage access for devices that are utilizing the alternative network access provider to gain access through the commerce transactions.

One implementation of security provides for dual SSID and security arrangements at the participating access points. This way the owners devices can continue to use their familiar log on functionality and the alternative network access provider enabled devices will use the secondary SSID and security system.

It is not the purpose of this description to address the details of authentication IP tunneling access to operators premium services and other issues related to security of the data transmitted through alternative network access provider connections. As mentioned in the introductory section there are already quite advanced solutions described in the 3GPP standards and several vendors are offering solutions for the technical aspects of authentication and security related issues and those are used in various embodiments.

Various applications executing in the processor may have communications needs and they would use the radio systems to satisfy them. This election of which radio system is used for communication is often made by the processor. In many cases wireless devices have been programmed by the manufacturer to utilize a particular radio system for example the Wi Fi radio for data communication needs if a connection to the Internet can be established through the system.

In order for the wireless device to utilize a particular radio system the specific radio system needs to be turned on. The radio system can either be turned on and off by the user through the user interface or be automatically turned on and off by the device by executing an application in the processor that controls the state of the radio.

Once the radio system is on it can attempt to connect to the Internet or to the telephone network over the various radio systems. In some cases the network system will require authentication for example a password in order to allow the connection to go through.

In the following sections various methods to automatically manage the state of the radio systems and the selection of the specific connection for communication are described.

The following paragraphs in this section assume that the user of the device has made the selection to let a software application manage the state of the radio systems.

For clarity the following examples are written to illustrate the management of the Wi Fi radio system. However it should be understood that the same mechanisms and principles can be used to manage the stage of any other radio system as well.

In many wireless devices it is customary to have the cellular radio system on all the time whether it is 2G 3G or 4G radio or a packet based LTE radio. This system handles the communication with the mobile service provider including voice calls and text messages. If there is no other radio systems available the cellular radio system handles any data communication that the device may require. However in many cases the data communication is automatically switched over to the Wi Fi system if a connection to the Internet or other backend system is available through the Wi Fi radio. This is because in most cases it is less costly and uses less battery power to send the data communications over the Wi Fi system. Some mobile devices may be equipped with a Wi Fi radio that is able to communicate with two or more access points e.g. using different Wi Fi protocols .

In one embodiment of the solution an application running on the processor of the wireless device periodically checks the amount of data that is being transferred or needs to be transferred through the radio systems. If the amount of data transmitted over a particular time interval exceeds a predetermined value the application turns on the Wi Fi radio. Stated in a different way if the speed of data transmissions exceeds a predetermined threshold the system turns on the Wi Fi radio.

Always when the Wi Fi radio is turned on it will scan the environment to see what if any Wi Fi access points are available and whether they require a password or other credentials for a connection. If there is an available access point or several access points the device will connect to one of them if the device has information of any passwords that may be required for a connection.

Connecting to the Wi Fi access point may not mean that there is a connection to the Internet. The device checks whether the connection is available for example by requesting a specific website to provide a response and then comparing the received response to a stored copy of the expected response. This way the system can determine whether any access control gateway has redirected to a connection to a page that may require input of credentials.

The device in one embodiment continues to monitor data traffic in the communication system and if it detects that the speed of the traffic falls below a certain predetermined threshold for a predetermined time it will turn off the Wi Fi radio. In another embodiment the device would leave the Wi Fi radio on as long as the device maintains a connection with the access point and the signal strength or the signal to noise ratio in the connection to the Wi Fi access point stays above a predetermined threshold. If the connection signal strength or other quality indicator falls below a predetermined value the device will disconnect and turn off the Wi Fi radio.

In another embodiment the device processor keeps track of the active applications running in the device and as soon as an application that has significant communication needs is activated the system will automatically turn on the Wi Fi radio. This initiates another scan of the environment and as explained above possibly a connection through the Wi Fi access point. A list of applications that may have significant communication needs is in this case stored in the device s memory . For example the list can be preconfigured by a user or can be determined automatically over time by monitoring the data usage and patterns of use of various applications.

Another indication of possible data communication needs is the overall state of the device and the state of its display. In order to conserve battery power the devices automatically go into a sleep mode in which the display may be turned off and any other processes and device may be suspended. During these times the system may turn their Wi Fi radio off and adjust the so called wake up interval as explained later in this description.

In addition to keeping track of the data communication speeds and the applications that may have data communication needs the device processor may use the observed current and a set of previous locations of the device for making the decision about turning on the radio.

While there are proposed solutions in which the user of the device may program various locations into the memory and the system will then turn on Wi Fi radio in these locations these systems are cumbersome and require significant effort by the user to input information about selecting locations where to turn on the Wi Fi radio and the locations would need to be manually updated as the use patterns and availability of wireless networks in various locations changes.

In one embodiment of the solution the wireless device stores in the memory the location of use of data communication the radio system used for the data communication and the total amount of data in each communication session the time of the session as well as the application using data communications. This information is then used to let the device learn the locations where significant data communication takes place and where a Wi Fi radio connection or any other particular radio system is used for this communication. In one embodiment the system rank orders the locations based on data usage and possibly based on the percentage of successfully using Wi Fi and uses the top locations in the ranking as a basis for turning on Wi Fi or shortening the wake up interval. The system may just automatically turn on the Wi Fi radio whenever it detects the device is in a location or within a certain distance of the location where communication over the Wi Fi radio system was previously successfully used.

In order to avoid the drain on the battery from using the GPS system the device may first try to establish its location based on triangulation or other method utilizing the cellular radio stations or access points for Wi Fi or other radio systems that it detects during routine scans and operation. The frequency of the location checks and the method of checking the location may be selected based on past history of the frequency of data communications time of day day of week or other parameters characterizing previous data communications.

Sometimes the device may be in motion while the data use is going on for example in a moving vehicle. In these cases the opportunity to utilize Wi Fi connections may be limited because of the time required to establish a new connection and the shortness of the time any particular Wi Fi access point would be available for the connection. To avoid unnecessary use of the Wi Fi radio in these circumstances the wake up interval may be made longer or the Wi Fi radio may be turned off if it is detected that the device is in motion.

In addition to data communication needs and observed locations of data communication the solution uses time based methods for managing the Wi Fi radio. There may be several inputs to selecting times when to turn on and off the Wi Fi radio. As mentioned in the previous section the times may be based on the pattern of observed behavior regarding data communications or may be based on user input.

While there are systems that provide the opportunity for the user to input a schedule for turning on and off their Wi Fi radio these methods provide a partial improvement compared to always having the radio on or always off. They may affect the actual state of the radio to turn it either on or off.

In this solution there is a mechanism through which the Wi Fi radio is automatically periodically turned on. Upon turning on the radio the device performs a fairly rapid scan of the environment and determines whether there are any access points that are available for a connection. If there are the system will associate and may remain associated until signal quality degradation may result in a disassociation. Upon disassociation the device will turn the Wi Fi radio off. If there are not any access points through which the device can establish a Wi Fi connection it will automatically turn off the Wi Fi radio for a set amount of time which we will call the wake up interval .

In this solution the time based management system of the radio may not merely be turning on and off the radio at predetermined times but it may be affecting the length of the wake up interval. For example during times of day and days a week that the device has had frequent and high volume data communication the wake up interval may be made shorter.

The wake up interval may depend on the overall state of the wireless device and the state of its display. If the device is in so called sleep mode the wake up interval may be made longer. A status change from sleep mode to normal operating mode may trigger an immediate turning on the radio and a scan of the environment for Wi Fi access points followed by a shorter wake up interval in case no access points are found that can provide a Wi Fi connection.

In Wi Fi access point connections the signal strength and quality may depend on a number of factors including the distance to the access point the way the user is holding the device and interference from other devices like microwave ovens. In these cases the availability of a connection may disappear for a short period of time and return as the circumstances change. For this reason the solution in one embodiment has a short wake up interval for the first couple of tries after a disconnection and then changes over to a longer interval in accordance with the device situation data use and other parameters.

Some wireless devices allow the user to configure tasks and applications to execute when there is a Wi Fi connection to the Internet or a backend system. For example uploading photographs from the device and synchronizing any podcasts or other content or performing software updates may be tasks that the user has configured to be carried out over a Wi Fi connection. The wake up interval may be determined so that it is likely that these tasks will get completed within the time expected by the user after he or she arrives at a location where Wi Fi is available. Without a wake up interval and time based Wi Fi radio management these tasks might not get completed even though a Wi Fi connection would be available. If the only mechanism for turning on the radio would be dependent on observed data communication speed the radio would not turn on since the applications will not start before it is on.

In addition to the methods described above the automatic turning on and off various radio systems can be based on the performance characteristics of observed for the different systems. The metrics used to measure the performance may include the relative signal strengths the automatically selected encoding rates for each radio communication alternative the relative battery consumption of various radio systems or any other metric that is available to the processor. In this solution the system may perform periodic checks of the performance level for example by transferring said amounts of data over the radio connection to serve the data communication speed.

The system may be performing brief speed tests with various radio systems and have logic that determines that a certain available speed level in each of the radio systems will cause the connection to be switched over to that system. Other characteristics of relative performance may be measured and this may result in a more complex logic for selecting which radios to use and which ones to turn off and how long the wake up intervals should be for the radios that have been turned off.

In some embodiments of the solution the Wi Fi radio or other radio systems may have predetermined or known costs associated with data communication over the radio link. For example this cost may be provided through an alternative network access provider enabler as described in U.S. provisional app. Ser. No. 61 618 318 filed Mar. 30 2012 entitled Systems And Methods For Alternative network access provider and U.S. provisional app. Ser. No. 61 563 735 entitled Method and System for Real Time Micro Commerce in Wireless Connectivity both of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

In case the cost of communication is known or can be determined it can be used to select the communication link between different alternatives. These alternatives may include multiple Wi Fi access points and cellular radio WiMAX and other radio systems. In one embodiment of the solution the selection of the connection to be used is based on the cost and possibly by a policy provided by either the device owner or the communication service provider that is providing the cellular communication to the device and has a contract with the device owner.

In case a certain radio system is not selected for communication the system may automatically turn off the radio in order to save battery power and set the wake up interval based on time location and history of communication.

The earlier sections of this application have described various factors that can be used in managing the state of the radio systems in a wireless device and in managing the selection of the specific communication link.

In additional embodiments of the solution various combinations of all or some of the factors can be used to achieve optimum management of the radio resources with regard to battery power and cost. For example the wake up interval can be set to be different at different times of the day and at different locations of the device and may depend on which applications are active in the device.

Similarly the wake up interval may be made to depend on the past success in establishing a Wi Fi connection in a particular location. For example if the device has tried a few times to find an available access point for a Wi Fi connection in a particular location and failed the system may make the wake up interval longer in that location to avoid unnecessary attempts. For example the wake up interval for that location may be made to be a day or several days so that the system will catch a possible addition of a new access point that may be made available but will not waste resources in trying to connect frequently in places where no connection has been available before. Access points may be available for a particular device because they do not have a password protection or access control gateways controlling access to the Internet because the password has been stored in the memory of the wireless device or because they can be accessed through a alternative network access provider.

Similar other complex combinations of variables explained in the previous sections may be utilized to precisely tune the management of the state of the radios and connection selections to achieve the optimal battery savings and cost savings.

This description introduces a method and the system with the associated functional descriptions to implement embodiments. The systems and methods can provide the means to harness the enormous wireless capacity already installed in people s homes and in enterprises. In addition as a result of establishing the alternative network access provider an entire ecosystem of access point picocell and femtocell providers will take shape. Large numbers of these relatively inexpensive devices can be deployed and connected to the Internet and through the cloud based service of alternative network access provider their capacity can be connected directly into the ecosystem. Their owners and maintainers can be compensated through the alternative network access provider for the micro transactions of providing bandwidth to wireless devices in their vicinity. However in this ecosystem there will be many other participants as well. The central aspect of the alternative network access provider solution is that it provides a platform for large numbers of different kinds of participants to provide products and services that will enable the commerce.

By publishing the interfaces and APIs for communicating with the alternative network access provider for the purposes of providing terms and conditions for use usage records and for automated payment transactions the managers of the alternative network access provider can make it possible for third party companies to write applications for the selection engines and proposal engines for various kinds of mobile devices and access points. Alternatively the proposal and selection engines can be implemented on the alternative network access provider computer systems and the interfaces APIs provided to other ecosystem participants include specifying the method and format of providing the information described above that is needed for the proposal and selection engines to work and a format and method for providing the operator specified rules and policies.

The published APIs will make it possible for already established companies that provide solutions for secure gateways and for mobile devices for Wi Fi offload to add the functionality of proposal selection and accounting engines and the above explained secure routing of terms and conditions and usage data to the alternative network access provider cloud based information system.

The published APIs will make it possible for different kinds of sponsor organizations to create applications for wireless devices to display their advertisements and collect survey results. Because of the local nature of access point connectivity the system will already know to a certain degree the location of the wireless device and its end user so many advertisements can be local in nature and relate to products and services that are available in the vicinity of the end user even in cases where the end user is not willing to provide precise location information from the wireless devices GPS system.

These enabling applications can be certified by the alternative network access provider and sold either through wired ISPs or directly to owners of access points and either directly or through wireless operators to the end users of wireless devices.

There may be service providers and equipment manufacturers who can add new alternative network access provider based features into their existing offerings and thereby generate new revenue opportunities and increase the availability of mobile data capacity. Examples include 

Manufacturers of indoor access points may provide a combined client access point device that can be placed on a windowsill in areas of high data connectivity need. This device would connect to the existing wireless access point as a client and project wireless signals as an access point outside the building.

Companies rolling out new 4G networks or operating WiMAX networks are today limited by lack of end user mobile devices that are capable of directly connecting to these new networks. The alternative network access provider provides a mechanism for these companies to reach a much wider customer base immediately. By installing intermediary bridge devices that connect to the Internet using the new network technologies like 4G LTE or WiMAX and on the other side provide simple local Wi Fi connectivity that is made accessible through the alternative network access provider they can serve any Wi Fi enabled devices.

Providers of M2M connectivity modules or services may use a small fraction of the capacity for simple asset tracking or monitoring can add a Wi Fi module and get paid for their M2M functionality by selling the excess capacity through the alternative network access provider.

As radios continue to become less expensive and more and more radios can be integrated into a single chip SOCs the opportunities increase for creating completely new products that are specifically designed to provide data connectivity services and rely on the alternative network access provider to handle the commercial aspects of their utilization.

After radio is turned on scan for available connectivity access e.g. available access points at block . If found at decision block perform a connectivity test at block . Just because an access point is available does not guarantee that the access point can connect to a desire source e.g. on the Internet . The connectivity test may be a simple ping command to a known destination an access to a known website or by any manner to establish that an end to end connection is likely to succeed as determined in decision block using the access point found at block .

At block a determination e.g. comparison is performed to determine whether to use the found access point. The comparison may be based on one or more access conditions e.g. costs capacity speed etc. as described above. If the determination is positive at decision block establish a connection with the found access point at block . If the new connection using radio is made to replace an existing connection e.g. using radio as shown in decision block then the communication using radio is to be transferred at block . After transferred radio may be turned off or put in a power save mode at bock to conserver power. If the existing communication using radio is not to be transferred the connection using radio is used in parallel with the existing connection using radio for example to speed up the communication on radio or for new communication. When a communication on any of the radio has come to an end that radio may be turned off or put on a power save mode. Process flows back to the beginning.

If the result at decision block or is No process flows to block where radio is turned off or put on a power save mode. Then the wake up interval may be lengthened or shortened at block as described above. Process flows back to the beginning.

In some examples process may be implemented with different fewer or more blocks. Process may be implemented as computer executable instructions which can be stored on a medium loaded onto one or more processors of one or more computing devices and mobile devices and executed as a computer implemented method.

In the illustrated embodiment wireless communication device comprises an antenna system a radio system a baseband system a speaker a microphone a central processing unit CPU a data storage area and a hardware interface . In the wireless communication device radio frequency RF signals are transmitted and received over the air by the antenna system under the management of the radio system .

In one embodiment the antenna system may comprise one or more antennae and one or more multiplexors not shown that perform a switching function to provide the antenna system with transmit and receive signal paths. In the receive path received RF signals can be coupled from a multiplexor to a low noise amplifier not shown that amplifies the received RF signal and sends the amplified signal to the radio system .

In alternative embodiments the radio system may comprise one or more radios that are configured to communication over various frequencies and or using different wireless communication protocols. In one embodiment the radio system may combine a demodulator not shown and modulator not shown in one integrated circuit IC . The demodulator and modulator can also be separate components. In the incoming path the demodulator strips away the RF carrier signal leaving a baseband receive audio signal which is sent from the radio system to the baseband system .

If the received signal contains audio information then baseband system decodes the signal and converts it to an analog signal. Then the signal is amplified and sent to the speaker . The baseband system also receives analog audio signals from the microphone . These analog audio signals are converted to digital signals and encoded by the baseband system . The baseband system also codes the digital signals for transmission and generates a baseband transmit audio signal that is routed to the modulator portion of the radio system . The modulator mixes the baseband transmit audio signal with an RF carrier signal generating an RF transmit signal that is routed to the antenna system and may pass through a power amplifier not shown . The power amplifier amplifies the RF transmit signal and routes it to the antenna system where the signal is switched to the antenna port for transmission.

The baseband system is also communicatively coupled with the central processing unit . The central processing unit has access to a data storage area . The central processing unit may be configured to execute instructions i.e. computer programs or software that can be stored in the data storage area . Computer programs can also be received from the baseband processor and stored in the data storage area or executed upon receipt. Such computer programs when executed enable the wireless communication device to perform the various functions of the present invention as previously described. For example data storage area may include various software modules not shown described with respect to one or more of .

Non transitory media may be used to provide executable instructions e.g. software and computer programs to the wireless communication device for execution by the central processing unit . An example of a non transitory medium is data storage . Communication device may obtain executable instructions via microphone via the baseband system antenna system also via the baseband system and hardware interface .

The central processing unit is configured to receive notifications from the hardware interface when new devices are detected by the hardware interface. Hardware interface can be a combination electromechanical detector with controlling software that communicates with the CPU and interacts with new devices. The hardware interface may be a firewire port a Universal Serial Bus USB port a Bluetooth or infrared wireless unit or any of a variety of wired or wireless access mechanisms. Examples of hardware that may be linked with the device include data storage devices computing devices headphones microphones and the like.

The system may include one or more processors such as processor . Additional processors may be provided such as an auxiliary processor to manage input output an auxiliary processor to perform floating point mathematical operations a special purpose microprocessor having an architecture suitable for fast execution of signal processing algorithms e.g. digital signal processor a slave processor subordinate to the main processing system e.g. back end processor an additional microprocessor or controller for dual or multiple processor systems or a coprocessor. Such auxiliary processors may be discrete processors or may be integrated with the processor .

The processor may be connected to a communication bus . The communication bus may include a data channel for facilitating information transfer between storage and other peripheral components of the system . The communication bus further may provide a set of signals used for communication with the processor including a data bus address bus and control bus not shown . The communication bus may comprise any standard or non standard bus architecture such as for example bus architectures compliant with industry standard architecture ISA extended industry standard architecture EISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA peripheral component interconnect PCI local bus Advanced Technology Attachment ATA Serial ATA SATA or standards promulgated by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE including IEEE 488 general purpose interface bus GPIB IEEE 696 S 100 and the like.

System may include a main memory and may also include a secondary memory . The main memory provides storage of instructions and data for programs executing on the processor . The main memory is typically semiconductor based memory such as dynamic random access memory DRAM and or static random access memory SRAM . Other semiconductor based memory types include for example synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM Rambus dynamic random access memory RDRAM ferroelectric random access memory FRAM and the like including read only memory ROM .

The secondary memory may optionally include an internal memory and or a removable medium for example a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive a compact disc CD drive a digital versatile disc DVD drive etc. The removable medium is read from and or written to in a well known manner. Removable storage medium may be for example a floppy disk magnetic tape CD DVD SD card etc.

The removable storage medium is a non transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable code i.e. software and or data. The computer software or data stored on the removable storage medium is read into the system for execution by the processor .

In alternative embodiments secondary memory may include other similar means for allowing computer programs or other data or instructions to be loaded into the system . Such means may include for example an external storage medium and an interface . Examples of external storage medium may include an external hard disk drive or an external optical drive or an external magneto optical drive.

Other examples of secondary memory may include semiconductor based memory such as programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable read only memory EEPROM or flash memory block oriented memory similar to EEPROM . Also included are any other removable storage media and communication interface which allow software and data to be transferred from an external medium to the system .

System may also include an input output I O interface . The I O interface facilitates input from and output to external devices. For example the I O interface may receive input from a keyboard or mouse and may provide output to a display. The I O interface is capable of facilitating input from and output to various alternative types of human interface and machine interface devices alike.

System may also include a communication interface . The communication interface allows software and data to be transferred between system and external devices e.g. printers networks or information sources. For example computer software or executable code may be transferred to system from a network server via communication interface . Examples of communication interface include a modem a network interface card NIC a wireless data card a communications port a PCMCIA slot and card an infrared interface and an IEEE 1394 fire wire connection Universal Serial Bus USB connection s just to name a few.

Communication interface may implement one or more protocols or standards such as Ethernet IEEE 802 standards Fiber Channel digital subscriber line DSL asynchronous digital subscriber line ADSL frame relay asynchronous transfer mode ATM integrated digital services network ISDN personal communications services PCS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP serial line Internet protocol point to point protocol SLIP PPP and so on but may also implement customized or non standard interface protocols as well.

Software and data transferred via communication interface are generally in the form of electrical communication signals . These signals may be provided to communication interface via a communication channel . In one embodiment the communication channel may be a wired or wireless network or any variety of other communication links. Communication channel carries signals and can be implemented using a variety of wired or wireless communication means including wire or cable fiber optics conventional phone line cellular phone link wireless data communication link radio frequency RF link or infrared link just to name a few.

Computer executable code i.e. computer programs or software is stored in the main memory and or the secondary memory . Computer programs can also be received via communication interface and stored in the main memory and or the secondary memory . Such computer programs when executed enable the system to perform the various functions of the present invention as previously described.

In this description the term computer readable medium is used to refer to any transitory or non transitory computer readable media used to provide computer executable code e.g. software and computer programs to the system . Examples of these media include main memory secondary memory including internal memory removable medium and external storage medium and any peripheral device communicatively coupled with communication interface including a network information server or other network device . These transitory and non transitory computer readable media are means for providing executable code programming instructions and software to the system .

In an embodiment that is implemented using software the software may be stored on a computer readable medium and loaded into the system by way of removable medium I O interface or communication interface . In such an embodiment the software is loaded into the system in the form of electrical communication signals .

The system also includes optional wireless communication components that facilitate wireless communication over a voice and over a data network. The wireless communication components comprise an antenna system a radio system and a baseband system . In the system radio frequency RF signals are transmitted and received over the air by the antenna system under the management of the radio system .

In one embodiment the antenna system may comprise one or more antennae and one or more multiplexors not shown that perform a switching function to provide the antenna system with transmit and receive signal paths. In the receive path received RF signals can be coupled from a multiplexor to a low noise amplifier not shown that amplifies the received RF signal and sends the amplified signal to the radio system .

In alternative embodiments the radio system may comprise one or more radios that are configured to communicate over various frequencies. In one embodiment the radio system may combine a demodulator not shown and modulator not shown in one integrated circuit IC . The demodulator and modulator can also be separate components. In the incoming path the demodulator strips away the RF carrier signal leaving a baseband receive audio signal which is sent from the radio system to the baseband system .

If the received signal contains audio information then baseband system decodes the signal and converts it to an analog signal. Then the signal is amplified and sent to a speaker. The baseband system also receives analog audio signals from a microphone. These analog audio signals are converted to digital signals and encoded by the baseband system . The baseband system also codes the digital signals for transmission and generates a baseband transmit audio signal that is routed to the modulator portion of the radio system . The modulator mixes the baseband transmit audio signal with an RF carrier signal generating an RF transmit signal that is routed to the antenna system and may pass through a power amplifier not shown . The power amplifier amplifies the RF transmit signal and routes it to the antenna system where the signal is switched to the antenna port for transmission.

The baseband system is also communicatively coupled with the processor . The central processing unit has access to data storage areas and . The central processing unit may be configured to execute instructions i.e. computer programs or software that can be stored in the memory or the secondary memory . Computer programs can also be received from the baseband processor and stored in the data storage area or in secondary memory or executed upon receipt. Such computer programs when executed enable the system to perform the various functions of the present invention as previously described. For example data storage areas may include various software modules not shown that are executable by processor .

Various embodiments may also be implemented primarily in hardware using for example components such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . Implementation of a hardware state machine capable of performing the functions described herein will also be apparent to those skilled in the relevant art. Various embodiments may also be implemented using a combination of both hardware and software.

Furthermore those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and method steps described in connection with the above described figures and the embodiments disclosed herein can often be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled persons can implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the invention. In addition the grouping of functions within a module block circuit or step is for ease of description. Specific functions or steps can be moved from one module block or circuit to another without departing from the invention.

Moreover the various illustrative logical blocks modules and methods described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor can be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor can be any processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing devices for example a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Computing device can be communicatively coupled to input user interface and output device interface . Either one or both of input user interface and output device interface can be a wired or wireless interface and can be detachable. Input user interface may include any device component sensor or interface physical or virtual that can be used to provide input e.g. buttons touch screen interface keyboard a pointing cursor control microphone camera braille motion sensor optical reader and or the like . Output device interface may include a display television monitor printer speaker braille or the like. In some example implementations input user interface and output device interface can be embedded with or physically coupled to the computing device . In other example implementations other computing devices may function as or provide the functions of input user interface and output device interface for a computing device .

Examples of computing device may include but are not limited to highly mobile devices e.g. smartphones devices in vehicles and other machines devices carried by humans and animals and the like mobile devices e.g. tablets notebooks laptops personal computers portable televisions radios and the like and devices not designed for mobility e.g. desktop computers other computers information kiosks televisions coupled to one or more processors radios and the like .

Computing device can be communicatively coupled e.g. via I O interface to external storage and network for communicating with any number of networked components devices and systems including one or more computing devices of the same or different configuration. Computing device or any connected computing device can be functioning as providing services of or referred to as a server client thin server general machine special purpose machine or another label.

I O interface can include but is not limited to wired and or wireless interfaces using any communication or I O protocols or standards e.g. Ethernet 802.11x Universal System Bus WiMax modem a cellular network protocol and the like for communicating information to and or from at least all the connected components devices and network in computing environment . Network can be any network or combination of networks e.g. the Internet local area network wide area network a telephonic network a cellular network satellite network and the like .

Computing device can use and or communicate using computer usable or computer readable media including transitory media and non transitory media. Transitory media include transmission media e.g. metal cables fiber optics signals carrier waves and the like. Non transitory media include magnetic media e.g. disks and tapes optical media e.g. CD ROM digital video disks Blu ray disks solid state media e.g. RAM ROM flash memory solid state storage and other non volatile storage or memory.

Computing device can be used to implement techniques methods applications processes or computer executable instructions in some example computing environments. Computer executable instructions can be retrieved from transitory media and stored on and retrieved from non transitory media. The executable instructions can originate from one or more of any programming scripting and machine languages e.g. C C C Java Visual Basic Python Perl JavaScript and others .

Processor s can execute under any operating system OS not shown in a native or virtual environment. One or more applications can be deployed that include logic unit application programming interface API unit input unit output unit mobile device management unit access point management unit usage management unit and inter unit communication mechanism for the different units to communicate with each other with the OS and with other applications not shown . For example mobile device management unit access point management unit and usage management unit may implement one or more processes shown in . The described units and elements can be varied in design function configuration or implementation and are not limited to the descriptions provided.

In some example implementations when information or an execution instruction is received by API unit it may be communicated to one or more other units e.g. logic unit input unit output unit mobile device management unit access point management unit and usage management unit . In an ANAP implementation for example input unit may receive location information of a mobile device and pass the information to mobile device management unit . Access point management unit may determine one or more access points and provide information about these access points to the mobile device via output unit e.g. communicated to the mobile device using a radio or through another radio communication device connected to network . The mobile device and or an access point may provide usage data that are managed by the usage management unit which may provide billing and or payment information to the owners and or operators the mobile device and access points.

In some instances logic unit may be configured to control the information flow among the units and direct the services provided by API unit input unit output unit mobile device management unit access point management unit and usage management unit in some example implementations described above. For example the flow of one or more processes or implementations may be controlled by logic unit alone or in conjunction with API unit .

Although a few example implementations have been shown and described these example implementations are provided to convey the subject matter described herein to people who are familiar with this field. It should be understood that the subject matter described herein may be implemented in various forms without being limited to the described example implementations. The subject matter described herein can be practiced without those specifically defined or described matters or with other or different elements or matters not described. It will be appreciated by those familiar with this field that changes may be made in these example implementations without departing from the subject matter described herein as defined in the appended claims and their equivalents.

