---

title: System and method of timing wagers in an integrated wagering and interactive media platform
abstract: The invention relates to systems and methods of selecting and placing real-world wagers responsive to one or more wager triggers, obtaining outcomes of the real-world wagers, facilitating user interactions with various interactive media, and revealing the outcomes of the real-world wagers through the interactive media to give an appearance that the outcomes of the real-world wagers resulted from the user interactions even though the outcomes resulted from the real-world wagers and were determined before the user interactions. A real-world wager may be initiated by one or more wager triggers that cause the real-world wager to be placed. The one or more wager triggers may include, without limitation, acquisition of a token, user selection or initiation of interactive media (e.g., selection of a game to play), an occurrence of an event in the interactive media (e.g., based on a user controlled or other in-game action), and/or other events.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09536385&OS=09536385&RS=09536385
owner: Game Play Network, Inc.
number: 09536385
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160404
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 629 213 filed Feb. 23 2015 entitled System and Method of Timing Wagers in an Integrated Wagering and Interactive Media Platform which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 210 308 filed Mar. 13 2014 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 961 301 on Feb. 24 2015 entitled System and Method of Timing Wagers in an Integrated Wagering and Interactive Media Platform which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 779 945 filed Mar. 13 2013 each of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 209 491 filed on Mar. 13 2014 entitled System and Method of Revealing Real World Wager Outcomes Based on User Interactions with Interactive Media U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 209 531 filed on Mar. 13 2014 entitled System and Method of Selecting Mechanisms Used in Interactive Media to Reveal Outcomes of Real World Wagers U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 209 576 filed on Mar. 13 2014 entitled System and Method of Selecting Interactive Media used to Reveal Outcomes of Real World Wagers U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 209 608 filed on Mar. 13 2014 entitled System and Method of Managing User Accounts to Track Outcomes of Real World Wagers Revealed to Users U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 210 281 filed on Mar. 13 2014 entitled System and Method of Selecting Real World Wagers on Behalf of Users in an Integrated Wagering and Interactive Media Platform U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 210 293 filed on Mar. 13 2014 entitled System and Method of Selecting Parameters for Real World Wagers Placed on Behalf of Users in an Integrated Wagering and Interactive Media Platform U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 210 320 filed on Mar. 13 2014 entitled System and Method of Revealing the Outcomes of Real World Wagers Through Single or Multiple Reveals U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 209 833 filed on Mar. 13 2014 entitled System and Method of Revealing the Outcomes of Real World Wagers Through Skill Based Actions U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 209 873 filed on Mar. 13 2014 entitled System and Method of Revealing the Outcomes of Real World Wagers Through Escalating Reveals U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 209 899 filed on Mar. 13 2014 entitled System and Method of Revealing the Outcomes of Real World Wagers Through Allocated Reveal Payouts U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 209 929 filed on Mar. 13 2014 entitled System and Method of Revealing the Outcomes of Real World Wagers Through Reveals and Unreveals U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 209 732 filed on Mar. 13 2014 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 915 781 on Dec. 23 2014 entitled System and Method of Revealing the Outcomes of Real World Wagers Through Mirage Reveals U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 209 797 filed on Mar. 13 2014 entitled System and Method of Revealing the Outcomes of Real World Wagers Through Guaranteed Reveals and Partner Promotions U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 209 879 filed on Mar. 13 2014 entitled System and Method of Revealing Sponsored and other Items Through Mock Reveals U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 209 597 filed on Mar. 13 2014 entitled System and Method of Revealing the Outcomes of Real World Wagers Through Timed Reveals and Reveal Decay U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 209 561 filed on Mar. 13 2014 entitled System and Method of Providing Wagering Opportunities Based on Invitations U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 209 666 filed on Mar. 13 2014 entitled System and Method of Providing Wagering Opportunities Based on Gameplay U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 209 705 filed on Mar. 13 2014 entitled System and Method of Providing Wagering Opportunities Based on External Triggers Attorney Docket No. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 209 762 filed on Mar. 13 2014 entitled System and Method of Providing Wagering Opportunities Based on Multiplayer Interactions U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 209 796 filed on Mar. 13 2014 entitled System and Method of Providing Wagering Opportunities Based on Promotional Content U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 209 955 filed on Mar. 13 2014 entitled System and Method of Determining a Reveal Specification in an Integrated Wagering and Interactive Media Platform U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 209 402 filed on Mar. 13 2014 entitled System and Method of Revealing the Outcomes of Real World Wagers Through Strategic Reveals U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 210 145 filed on Mar. 13 2014 entitled System and Method of Revealing the Outcomes of Real World Wagers Through Win Win Reveals U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 210 180 filed on Mar. 13 2014 entitled System and Method of Revealing the Outcomes of Real World Wagers Through Geolocation Reveals U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 210 196 filed on Mar. 13 2014 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 777 735 on Jul. 15 2014 entitled Monetization of an Integrated Wagering and Interactive Media Platform U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 210 212 filed on Mar. 13 2014 entitled System and Method of Securing Reveals of Outcomes of Real World Wagers and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 210 242 filed on Mar. 13 2014 entitled System and Method of Providing an Integrated Wagering and Interactive Media Platform all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

The invention relates to systems and methods of timing real world wagers in an integrated wagering and interactive media platform and placing the real world wagers obtaining outcomes of the real world wagers facilitating user interactions with various interactive media and revealing the outcomes of the real world wagers through the interactive media to give an appearance that the outcomes of the real world wagers resulted from the user interactions even though the outcomes resulted from the real world wagers and were determined before the user interactions.

Certain wagering systems allow users to place wagers and obtain payouts. For example using some of these wagering systems users may place wagers on horse races. However payouts resulting from such wagers result from the wager event without interaction by the user making the wagering and payout process one dimensional. Interactive media allows for user interaction which can engage the user. However the user interaction is generally limited to the gameplay mechanic multimedia e.g. video content and other content needed to play the interactive media. Although some online interactive media allow users to place simulated wagers e.g. online poker using virtual currency the outcome of such simulated wagers are based solely on gameplay and not on real world wager outcomes.

The invention addressing these and other drawbacks relates to systems and methods of selecting and placing real world wagers responsive to one or more wager triggers obtaining outcomes of the real world wagers facilitating user interactions with various interactive media and revealing the outcomes of the real world wagers through the interactive media to give an appearance that the outcomes of the real world wagers resulted from the user interactions even though the outcomes resulted from the real world wagers and were determined before the user interactions.

A real world wager may be initiated by one or more wager triggers that cause the real world wager to be placed. The one or more wager triggers may include without limitation acquisition of a token e.g. when a user purchases or otherwise acquires a token user selection or initiation of interactive media e.g. selection of a game to play an occurrence of an event in the interactive media e.g. based on a user controlled or other in game action and or other events that can trigger the real world wager.

The initiation of the real world wager may specify a given real world wager to make e.g. specify a horse race or other event on which to place the wager an amount of the wager a number of wagers to make etc. and or computer system may select the real world wager based at least in part on one or more wager rules described herein. In some instances the wager event on which the selected real world wager is placed may occur in the future. For example a horse race may be selected but may not occur until another five minutes. Thus the outcome of the horse race may not be known until at least another five minutes plus the time it takes for the horse race to complete and the outcome to be made available .

In an implementation the system may delay the reveal of the outcome through interactive media provided to the user associated with the real world wager until the outcome is known. The delay may be accomplished in various ways.

If interactive media has not yet been selected by the user associated with the real world wager the system may select a particular interactive medium to provide to the user while waiting for the outcome of the real world wager. This may occur for example when a user purchases a token and the token purchase triggers a real world wager. If the user has not selected interactive media e.g. a game to play and an outcome of a real world wager is not yet available the system may select and suggest interactive media for the user while waiting for the outcome of the real world wager to become available.

The selected interactive media may be used to reveal the outcome when the outcome is available. The system may select the interactive media based on its suitability to delay a reveal opportunity based on when the outcome of the real world wager will become available. For example and without limitation the reveal opportunity may include a finish line in a racing game. The finish line may not be presented to the user until the wager outcome is known. In the foregoing example the finish line may not be presented or achievable until at least five minutes after the game has been selected when the outcome of the horse race is known .

In an implementation the in game event or other interactive media event may be presented to the user based on an estimated time that the outcome will be available and provide a reveal opportunity based on the estimated time. For example the system may estimate that the outcome of the horse race will be available in five minutes. The system may cause a finish line in the racing game to be achievable after at least five minutes after starting a race in the racing game. In this manner the manner in which the outcome is revealed may be delayed through selection of the interactive media content to present to the user while awaiting the outcome. When available the outcome of the real world wager may be revealed to the user to give an appearance to the user that the outcome resulted from the results of the race.

On the other hand the selected game may be used to occupy the user until the outcome is available at which time a game that is used to reveal the outcome may be presented to the user. In other words the selected game may not be used to reveal the outcome but rather to give the user interactive media content to use while waiting for the outcome. In an implementation the system may select the game or other interactive media based on an estimated time that the outcome will be available. For example and without limitation for longer wait times the system may select a more difficult game a game having a greater number of levels and or a game that takes a relatively long time to play learn. For shorter wait times the system may select a less difficult game a game having a fewer number of levels and or a game that takes a relative short time to play learn.

If interactive media has already been started by the user associated with the real world wager e.g. when an in game action triggers the wager the system may delay reveal opportunities within the interactive media. For example the system may provide the user with a new race level that has a finish line based on an estimated time that the outcome will be available.

In an implementation if the reveal opportunity is forfeited then the outcome of the real world wager may not be revealed. Instead the outcome may be revealed during another reveal opportunity in which case the actual user account may not be updated and the tracking account may continue to store a value of a payout or a loss associated with the real world wager or otherwise one or more accounts associated with the user will be made to reflect the unrevealed outcome. For example if the user exits the racing game before reaching the finish line the outcome of the real world wager may not be revealed.

By integrating real world wager outcomes with gameplay and other user interactions the system may provide an engaging user experience with interactive media. For example and without limitation a game may reveal an outcome of a real world wager that has already occurred in response to in game actions such as user actions in the game other players actions in the game game events e.g. events caused by the game logic artificial intelligence and or other events. In this manner the system provides an appearance to the user that the revealed outcome of the real world wager occurred based on the in game actions. In particular the user may be given the impression that the user won a payout based on an in game action when in fact the payout resulted from the real world wager.

System may place a real world wager based on one or more wager parameters that includes information used to specify and or place a wager. The wager parameters may include without limitation a type of event on which to wager e.g. horse races a particular event e.g. a particular horse race on which to wager a particular event parameter e.g. a selection of a winner a type of wager an amount of the wager a timing related to when to place the wager a location of where to place the wager e.g. a locality or wagering system and or other parameter that is used to place a wager.

A real world wager may relate to any of a variety of wager events based on a set of wager parameters. For example the wager event may include without limitation a sporting event a random event e.g. random number picks from a lottery stock market activity a political race and or other form of risk resolution that provides a return against an amount wagered depending on the outcome of the wager event. In an implementation the wager relates to a wager event that has not yet occurred. The wager may be based on various criteria including the legality based on where a user is located and other user related parameters e.g. age .

System may obtain an outcome of the real world wager and reveal the outcome based on one or more reveal parameters that specify when to reveal the outcome and or a reveal mechanism. The one or more reveal parameters may include without limitation a date time to reveal the outcome a game or other interactive media used to reveal the outcome an amount of the outcome e.g. a portion of a payout to reveal and or other reveal parameters.

The reveal mechanisms may give the appearance to the user that the user achieved the outcome through the user interactions even though the outcome resulted from the real world wager and was determined before the user interactions with the interactive media. Such interactions may include gameplay multimedia views multimedia downloads and or other interactions that can give the appearance to the user that they won or lost something based on the interactions. For example the user may be given the impression that an in game action resulted in a cash win even though the cash win resulted from a real world wager that was placed and the in game action triggered the win.

The interactive media may include without limitation mobile online or other games other multimedia content and or other media that may be presented to and or interacted with by a user. The interactive game may involve a skill physical coordination problem solving and or or other activity unrelated or related to the underlying wager event. For example the interactive game may include without limitation a crossword puzzle an action game a puzzle game a shooting game e.g. a first person shooter game a strategy game e.g. chess checkers go etc. a pinball type game a card game a single player game including games against an Al player a multiplayer game including games against other users a game of chance such as a slot machine a bingo game a lottery casual games alternate reality games FLASH games handheld games a math game a match game a prediction game or challenge an arcade game etc. The interactive game may also include a passive form of entertainment requiring little if any intervention from the user. The interactive game may be run on any platform such as a console a computer a mobile device and or other device that can facilitate gameplay of the interactive game.

The multimedia content may include a video audio image text data and or other media content that may be interacted with e.g. viewed listened to for a period of time downloaded etc. . For example a slide show may be presented to the user with random payouts presented to the user while watching the slide show. Thus certain implementations do not require a game or game play in order to provide the delayed reveal functionality described herein.

System may provide the outcome of wagers directly to the user or through the reveal mechanisms described herein based on a user preference. In this manner the system and or user may decide whether to obtain outcomes directly or through one or more of the various reveal mechanisms described herein.

Other uses of system are described herein and still others will be apparent to those having skill in the art. Having described a high level overview of some of the system functions attention will now be turned to various system components that facilitate these and other functions.

System may include a computer system one or more wagering systems one or more payment systems one or more interactive media providers one or more partner promotions providers one or more user devices and or other components. Computer system may debit and or credit funds related to real world wagers through payment system s . Computer system may place real world wagers with one or more wagering system s . Computer system may interface with third party interactive media provider s to allow user interactions through third party media interface with partner promotions provider s to leverage the system to provide partner promotions and provide various interfaces to user device s so that users may interact with computer system .

To facilitate these and other functions computer system may include one or more computing devices . Each computing device may include one or more processors one or more storage devices one or more databases a third party interactive media Application Programming Interface API a partner API and or other components.

Processor s may be programmed by one or more computer program instructions which may be stored in storage device s . The one or more computer program instructions may include without limitation enrollment instructions account manager instructions wager user interface U I instructions wager processing instructions wager outcome reveal instructions and or other instructions .

In an implementation enrollment instructions may program processor s and therefore computer system to enroll a user to use computer system . As used hereinafter for convenience the various instructions will be described as performing an operation when in fact the various instructions may program processor s to perform the operation.

To enroll the user enrollment instructions may obtain user information such as without limitation a username a password demographic information user risk profile information payment account information and or other information related to the user. Once obtained enrollment instructions may store a portion or all of the user information in a database for later retrieval such as in one or more database s . It should be understood that enrollment instructions may obtain at least some of the foregoing user information after the user has initially enrolled. For example enrollment instructions may obtain new user information updates to existing user information and or deletions of existing user information after the user has initially enrolled.

The username and password may be used to authenticate user logins to computer system . Such logins may be performed through third party interactive media provider s and or through various interactive media interface s provided by computer system .

The demographic information may include without limitation a name a location of the user e.g. a residence address an age device information a gender and or other information that describes the user. The device information may include without limitation a mobile phone number a Media Access Control address a Subscriber Identity Module identifier and or other information that uniquely identifies a mobile device of the user. Computer system may use the location of the user to localize real world wagers that are placed by computer system as described herein elsewhere provide location based services for promotion provider s and or perform other functions. Computer system may determine the location of the user based on a location of the user s mobile device a residence address of the user and or other information that indicates a location which may or may not be a real time location of the user.

In an implementation some or all of the demographic information may be subject to verification. For example enrollment instructions may verify the address and or age of the user by requiring verification information to be submitted. Such verification information may include without limitation government issued document information such as a social security number passport number driver s license number etc. a credit card bill of the user a location of the mobile device of the user to be as a proxy for the location of the user and or other information used to verify the demographic information. In this manner enrollment instructions may verify that the user is able to place real world wagers in compliance with applicable wagering regulations and laws. Enrollment instructions may store such verification in association with the user for later retrieval.

The user risk profile information may include a risk tolerance which indicates a level of risk that the user is willing to take with respect to real world wagers. Enrollment instructions may obtain the risk tolerance through direct questionnaires to the user e.g. request the user to specify high medium low and or other direct indications of risk tolerance such as a scale from 1 to 10 indirect questionnaires e.g. request the user to specify whether higher payouts but lower chance of winning are preferred etc. previous wagering history of the user and or other methods of obtaining a risk tolerance of the user. In an implementation computer system may use the user risk profile information to automatically identify types quantities and or amounts of wagers to place on behalf of the user.

The payment account information may include without limitation a credit card number a debit card number a smart card number an online payment account identifier e.g. a PAYPAL account identifier a bank account routing number Advanced Deposit Wagering ADW account identification information and or other information that can be used to identify a payment account that is used to debit and or credit funds.

Account manager instructions may maintain one or more types of accounts associated with a user. The different types of account may include without limitation a payment account e.g. credit card account a debit card account etc. an Advanced Deposit Wagering ADW Account a token account a revealed account an unrevealed account and or other types of accounts. Account manager instructions may cause funds or other forms of value to be debited from and or credited to one or more accounts associated with the user e.g. one or more accounts identified during user enrollment in connection with various operations performed by computer system . For example account manager instructions may debit one or more payment accounts of the user in connection with a real world wager that is placed by computer system on behalf of the user. Account manager instructions may debit a payment account of the user at before or after a wager has been placed. For example the account manager instructions may debit a payment account of the user before a real world wager is placed. Alternatively when legal a wager may be made without advance funding and user accounts may be settled at a later date if the wager resulted in a loss e.g. by invoicing the user charging a user credit card and or otherwise causing a user s payment account to be debited .

In an implementation account manager instructions may interface with external accounting systems e.g. an accounting system associated with a state gambling system to manage e.g. view balances update etc. an external account.

In an implementation account manager instructions may cause an existing ADW account of the user to be debited in connection with the real world wager. For wagers associated with ADW a bettor is required to fund an ADW account prior to placing a wager. The ADW account may include a payment account that is used to fund such ADW. The ADW account may in an implementation include a segregated trust account that is used to fund ADW wagers.

In an implementation account manager instructions may cause one or more payment accounts of the user to fund the ADW account in connection with the real world wager and or the user may separately fund the ADW account without using computer system .

In an implementation account manager instructions may receive a user indication of whether any payout resulting from a wager should be paid to the user immediately. In other words a user may specify that the user wishes to receive a payout immediately in which case account manager instructions may credit a user payment account e.g. a bank account with the payout amount. On the other hand if the user specifies that the payout should be processed according to the reveal platform of computer system then the payout may be revealed as described herein with respect to wager outcome reveals.

In an implementation account manager instructions may generate and provide one or more user interfaces that allow the user to transfer funds between user accounts view user account information e.g. balances previous wagers payouts losses etc. and or otherwise interact with user account information related to payment accounts of the user. For example account manager instructions may generate and provide one or more user interfaces that allow the user to transfer funds from a bank account to an ADW account. In an implementation account manager instructions may use one or more payment system s to process the foregoing and other fund transfers. For example account manager instructions may communicate conventional Electronic Funds Transfer requests Automated Clearinghouse payment requests and or other suitable payment requests to payment system s .

In an implementation account manager instructions may generate and provide one or more user interfaces that indicate previously placed wagers wager outcomes e.g. payouts losses and draws and or other information related to wagers. In another implementation account manager instructions may not display wager outcomes so that the user is unaware of actual wager outcomes and instead is required to discover such outcomes through interactive media interface s provided by computer system and or third party interactive media provided by third party interactive media provider s as described herein. In yet another implementation account manager instructions may display or not display wager outcomes based on a user configurable setting e.g. depending on whether the user chooses to view the wager outcomes without user interactions with the interactive media .

In an implementation account manager instructions may allocate a token and store the allocated token using a user account associated with the user. The token may be defined by one or more token parameters that describe the token. A token parameter may include for example a denomination of the token an amount or value of the token a level of risk associated with the token which may determine a level of risk of a wager placed using the value of the token and or other characteristic of the token.

As used herein the term token generally refers to a unit of value. The unit of value may correspond to e.g. be representative of an amount of real currency e.g. a U.S. dollar an amount of virtual currency e.g. an in game currency an amount of digital currency e.g. a BITCOIN a reward point a tournament point an experience point in a game a time value e.g. a stock option or future combinations of the foregoing and or other measure of real or perceived value. Unless contextually or explicitly indicated otherwise a token may be represented using any type of visual representation.

The user account may indicate a number of tokens a type of token an amount of other value e.g. cash winnings funds transfers etc. and or other information related to a value that is associated with the user.

In an implementation account manager instructions may manage more than one type of token. For example a given token may represent one unit of value e.g. one dollar while another token may represent another unit of value e.g. five dollars . Furthermore a given token may represent real currency while other another token may represent experience points. Some tokens may represent a combination of different units of value such as an amount of real currency and an amount of reward points. For example a given token may represent ten U.S. dollars and 1000 airline miles.

In an implementation account manager instructions may allocate tokens by adding a number of tokens to the user account e.g. increasing a number of tokens adding a unit of value to a token e.g. incrementing a dollar value of a given token and or adding airline miles to a token that originally was worth a given amount of dollars and or otherwise increasing a value of tokens in the user account. Likewise account manager instructions may de allocate or subtract units of value from the user account.

Account manager instructions may make such allocations based on an action that causes tokens to be allocated to a user. The action may be initiated by the user the system and or a third party. For example the action may include a purchase e.g. the user may purchase tokens a promotional campaign a bonus based on user interactions with interactive media a consolation prize a wager outcome and or other allocation technique. The consolation prize and or the bonus may each include an item such as a virtual item that is not otherwise purchasable or may include an item that is being promoted.

In an implementation account manager instructions may facilitate a token purchase using payment account information of the user which may be pre stored or newly added at the time of the purchase. Account manager instructions may facilitate purchase of different denominations of tokens having different denominations e.g. ten cents fifty cents one dollar two dollars five dollars ten dollars etc. . In an implementation a fixed amount and or a percentage of the token purchase price may be retained by the system operator acting as the house.

In an implementation a token may be used to initiate wagers interact with interactive media e.g. purchase or play games videos etc. purchase virtual goods exchange for other tokens and or otherwise be used to obtain another unit of value or perceived value.

In an implementation a token when used may be depleted by one or more units of value. For example account manager instructions may deplete all or a portion of the value of a token used to place a wager to provide currency for the wager. If the wager results in a payout or draw account manager instructions may increase the value of the token such that the depleted value is replenished. Depending on the payout amount the token may be worth more after the wager outcome than before the wager was placed. The increase in value of the token may be revealed in a time delayed manner as described herein. In an implementation account manager instructions may distribute the payout across more than one token which may be owned by the user and or other users.

In an implementation account manager instructions may maintain an actual user account that includes an actual balance. The actual balance may be denominated in real currency virtual currency and or other unit of value. In an implementation the actual balance may include a combination of different units of value e.g. real currency and virtual items .

Certain crediting events may cause funds to be credited to the actual user account. The crediting events may include without limitation funds transfers from a payment account to the actual user account a real world wager payout and or other events that can cause the actual balance to increase. Certain debiting events may cause funds to be debited from the actual user account. The debiting events may include without limitation withdrawals from the actual user account e.g. a transfer of real currency from the actual user account to another account purchases of one or more items e.g. tokens virtual items etc. placement of real world wagers e.g. to pay for the real world wagers in advance and or other events that can cause the actual balance to decrease.

In an implementation at least a portion of the actual account balance may be associated with a given token. For example for a given actual user account eight real currency dollars may be associated with a first token such that the first token is worth eight real currency dollars. Two real currency dollars may be associated with a second token such that the second token is worth two real currency dollars. The value of each token may be adjusted e.g. incremented or decremented in a manner similar to the actual account balance being adjusted. For example a payout from a real world wager that was placed using a given token may be credited to the real currency value of the given token and therefore credited to the corresponding actual user account . Likewise use of a token may decrease the real currency value of the token and therefore debited from the corresponding actual user account .

In an implementation at least a portion of the actual account balance may not be associated with a given token. For example five real currency dollars may not be associated with a token. A portion of the actual balance may be associated with one or more tokens while another portion of the actual balance may not be associated with one or more tokens. In the foregoing examples a given actual account balance may have a total actual value of fifteen real currency dollars eight of which is associated with the first token two of which is associated with the second token and five of which is associated with real currency that is not associated with a token . Account manager instructions may provide access to the total actual value e.g. fifteen dollars and or a breakdown of the total actual value eight dollars associated with the first token two dollars associated with the second token and five dollars not associated with a token .

In an implementation account manager instructions may maintain a tracking account that tracks any unrevealed outcomes of real world wagers. For example a payout in the amount of five dollars resulting from a real world wager may be credited to the tracking account until the payout is revealed. A reveal opportunity may be presented to the user in the form of a game objective. If the game objective is achieved by the user the user may be given the appearance that the achievement of the game object resulted in the payout the tracking account may be decremented by five dollars and the actual user account may be incremented by five dollars.

In an implementation partial reveals may cause partial credits and debits to occur as well. For example if only a portion of the game objective was achieved only a portion of the payout may be revealed. In the foregoing example if only a portion of the objective was achieved two of the five dollar payout may be revealed to the user giving the user the appearance that partial completion of the game objective resulted in a partial reward of two dollars. Account manager instructions may decrement the tracking account by two dollars leaving the remaining three dollars for another reveal opportunity and increment the actual user account by two dollars.

Other types of tracking actual user account balances and revealed account balances may be used as well. For example a first account may be used to display a balance to the user and therefore may include payouts that have been revealed to the user. The first account may be accessible to make purchases place wagers etc. and is what the user perceives is the value of the user s account. A second account may store an amount of funds that the user has which includes unrevealed payout amounts. The second account may not be accessible to the user but indicates a true value of the user s account. For example if the second account balance is higher than the first account balance then a payout has not been revealed to the user. Thus as used herein when a tracking account or an actual account of the user are updated various ways to track whether or not a given outcome has been revealed may be used as well. Furthermore a tracking account and an actual account need not be separate accounts but rather components of a single account so long as they are associated with a given user. Likewise a first account and a second account may be components of a single account so long as they are associated with a given user.

In an implementation the purchase of a token may initiate a wager. For example account manager instructions may facilitate the purchase of a particular one dollar token and may automatically initiate e.g. without an express wager from the user one or more real world wagers up to one dollar as described herein with respect to placing wagers. In this implementation different tokens may be associated with different risk profiles e.g. a low risk token when purchased causes a low risk wager to be placed a high risk token when purchased causes a high risk wager to be placed and so on . Thus a user may indicate a desired level of risk of a wager by purchasing an appropriate token.

In an implementation wager user interface U I instructions may generate and provide one or more wager interfaces that receive real world wagers explicitly defined by a user. For example using the one or more wager interfaces the user may select one or more wager parameters used to place a wager.

Responsive to the wager parameters wager user interface U I instructions may cause a real world wager to be placed. The particular wager that is initiated may depend on the wager parameters. For example wager user interface U I instructions may initiate a wager for an event identified by the user if the user explicitly identifies the event. On the other hand wager user interface U I instructions may initiate a wager for an event that is automatically identified by computer system if the user selects a risk level instead of a particular event. Other aspects of the wager may be similarly determined e.g. selection of the winner of a horse race may be based on an explicit indication from the user or based on a level of risk indicated by the user e.g. select underdog horse if a high risk wager is desired by the user .

In an implementation a real world wager may be triggered based on a use of a token. For example a real world wager may be placed responsive to the use of all or a portion of the value of a token to initiate gameplay of a game view a video etc. The amount of the real world wager may be based on the value of the token that is used. For example and without limitation if a user uses a token that is associated with one real currency dollar to play a game a real world wager in the amount of one real currency dollar may be placed on behalf of the user.

In an implementation a real world wager may be triggered based on a user interaction with interactive media. For example a portion or all of the value of a token may not be wagered until a certain event occurs with respect to the game. The user interaction may include without limitation winning a game solving at least a portion of a puzzle striking one or more targets user achieving a certain number of points a certain performance level or title accomplishing a task within a specified period of time accessing a certain virtual area collecting a certain virtual item beating another user playing an interactive game playing a certain period of time a random event e.g. a number selected using a random number generator a user input e.g. user defined values for inputs a physical action a physiological condition e.g. a monitored heartbeat a level of perspiration a blood glucose level etc. the monitored physiological condition may be obtained from a wearable device and or other monitoring device completion of a game watching a video watching a certain number of videos watching a video for a certain period of time listening to audio content e.g. music podcast etc. listening to audio content for a certain period of time viewing an image viewing a certain number of images watching an advertisement clicking on or otherwise selecting an advertisement and or other objectives that can be monitored with respect to interactive media content.

In an implementation a real world wager may be made using one or more items of value. For example a user may wager a retailer gift card against another user s physical goods. In an implementation a real world wager may be made using a combination of real currency and one or more items of value.

In an implementation wager processing instructions may identify one or more real world wagers to place on behalf of the user place the real world wagers through wagering system s and obtain the outcome of the real world wagers. Wager processing instructions may be triggered to place a real world wager based on a token purchase by a user an explicit indication from the user a user interaction with interactive media from the user and or other wager triggers.

In an implementation after a wager has been triggered wager processing instructions may select from among different types of wagers which may each be associated with characteristics such as a payout level a risk level and or other characteristics. Based on the wager characteristics wager processing instructions may select one or more types of wagers to place on behalf of the user if the user has not expressly indicate a type of wager to place . For example depending on a particular odds and payout amount for each of the types of wagers wager processing instructions may select from among the different types of wagers.

Wager processing instructions may associate particular user risk profiles with wager risk profiles associated with the various types of wagers. For example wager processing instructions may score each of the types of wagers with to generate a wager risk profile based on the odds of winning and or the payouts usually associated therewith e.g. higher payouts for lower odds . Wager processing instructions may generate the wager risk profile based on a calculation of odds of winning and or potential payouts. For example the wager risk profile for a given type of bet may be express as a product of the odds expressed as a decimal value and a potential payout a ratio e.g. 6 1 payout ratio yielding six times the wager . Other values may be used in the foregoing calculation and other calculations may be used as well. The wager risk profile may be used to generate a risk matrix that compares the user risk profiles with the wager risk profiles to select an appropriate number and type of wagers.

Different wager risk profiles may be associated with different levels of risk. For example each type of wager may be placed along a scale of levels of risk with one end of the scale indicating a relatively low risk wager and the other end of the scale indicating a relatively high risk wager. In this manner the appropriate type of wager may be matched with an appropriate user risk profile and or other risk information associated with a real world wager to be placed .

In an implementation wager processing instructions may blend down a risk of multiple wagers to select an appropriate set of wagers given a user risk profile of a user. For example for a user that accepts a moderate level of risk wager processing instructions may select wagers having high odds of winning e.g. low risk but low payout amounts and wagers having low odds of winning e.g. high risk but high payout amounts. Wager processing instructions may optimize the number and wager amounts of low and high risk wagers to arrive at an overall moderate risk level for the user. The various types of wagers that may be place will now be described.

As is well known the pari mutuel system sometimes known as a totalisator is a betting system in which bets of a particular type are pooled together and the final payout is not determined until the results are declared official. The house e.g. the race track may take a portion of the bets as payment for the betting related functions provided. The payoff odds are calculated by sharing the betting pool among the winning bets. By contrast in fixed odds betting the payout is generally agreed at the time the wager is made. Certain embodiments may place wagers using fixed odds betting.

Place where the bettor must pick a horse that finishes either first or second race in order to win the bet.

Show where the bettor must pick a horse that finishes first second or third in the race in order to win the bet.

Exacta perfecta or exactor where the bettor must pick the two horses that finish first and second in the race in the correct order in order to win the bet.

Trifecta where the bettor must pick the three horses that finish first second and third in the race in the correct order in order to win the bet.

Superfecta in order to win the wager the bettor must pick the four horses that finish first second third and fourth in the race in the correct order in order to win the bet.

Box wherein a better can place a box around exotic betting types e.g. exacta trifecta or superfecta bets in order to place a wager for all permutations of the numbers in the box.

Any2 or Duet where the bettor must pick the two horses that will place first second or third in the race but can finish in any order in order to win the bet.

Double or Quinella where the bettor must pick the winners of two successive races in order to win the bet.

Triple Pick3 where the bettor must pick the winners of three successive races in order to win the bet.

Quadrella where the bettor must pick the winners of four nominated races at the same track in order to win the bet.

Sweep or pick four where the bettor must pick the winners of four or more successive races in order to win the bet.

Pick six where the better must pick the winners of six or more successive races in order to win the bet with a consolation payment made to bettors that correctly selected five winners out of six races and with rollover jackpots accumulating each day until one or more bettors correctly picks all six winners.

Win place and show wagers are generally referred to as straight bets and the other example wagers listed above are generally referred to as exotic bets. Generally the greater the odds against winning the higher the payout and the lower the frequency of a payout. Exotic bets have greater odds against winning than straight bets but generally with higher payouts when a win occurs. The aforementioned types of wagers are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed as limiting. Other types of wagers in other contexts may be selected from as well including without limitation selecting a winning team against a point spread selecting over under scores selecting a random number selecting a winner of a political race and or other event or type of wager that may be legally placed.

In implementation wager processing instructions may select a real world wager based on one or more wager parameters that specify one or more aspects of the wager. The one or more wager parameters may include without limitation a venue at which to place the wager an event on which to wager a particular outcome of the event e.g. a winner of the horse race a type of wager to place an amount of the wager a number of wagers and or other parameter used to place a real world wager. In some instances the user may directly specify some of the foregoing parameters and wager processing instructions may select other ones of the foregoing parameters. For example and without limitation the user may identify a particular horse race on which to place the real world wager and wager processing instructions may select the winner an amount of the wager etc.

In an implementation wager processing instructions may determine a type of wager to place based on a risk tolerance of a user and a likelihood and or amount of payout that is expected for the type of wager. The risk tolerance may be expressly indicated by the user obtained from a user profile identified by a type of token that is used to place a wager and or otherwise obtained to identify the risk tolerance of the user. For example wager processing instructions may place straight wagers for a user having a low risk tolerance and place exotic wagers for another user having a higher risk tolerance.

In an implementation wager processing instructions may place two or more wagers over a combination of wager types. For example wager processing instructions may make straight wagers and exotic wagers in order to hedge the wagers. Such hedging may increase the likelihood of frequent but smaller wins from the straight wagers while obtaining relatively infrequent larger payouts from the exotic wagers which may make reveals of the wager outcomes more exciting from a user perspective.

In an implementation wager processing instructions may select particular events on which to place wagers based on the number of entries in the event e.g. the number of runners in a race a desired risk profile of the user a number of possible combinations e.g. where the number of combinations may be linearly or non linearly based on the number of competitors in an event a number of favorites or long shots in an event and or other factors.

In an implementation wager processing instructions may generate a results curve which may reflect desired wagering results or distributions by breaking a given wager amount down into smaller individual wager amounts to thereby synthesize the results curve using sub component bets. The synthesis of a results curve may be performed across multiple events by placing different wagers tokens on different events.

In an implementation wager processing instructions may determine one or more types of wagers to place based on a user specification when a token is purchased through a user profile that indicate a risk tolerance the type of token that was purchased and or other information that may be used to determine the types of wagers to make.

As described herein for example different tokens may be offered that correspond to different types of wagers. For example and without limitation a frequent payout token may cause wagers to be placed substantially entirely on straight wagers or other wager types with a relatively high likelihood of resulting in some level of payout a high multiple of return token may cause wagers to be placed substantially entirely on exotic bets or the like with a relatively high payout multiple in the event of a wager win a balanced risk token may cause wagers to be distributed over straight bets and exotic bets and or other types of tokens may cause particular types of wagers to be placed.

In an implementation a given token may be associated with a specific type of wager such as a quick pick superfecta wager. For certain tokens when used by the user wager processing instructions may automatically pick the horses or other event parameter and races or other events on which to wager without the user having to identify the horses or races. Different tokens may also be typed to be used to wager on specific pools runners races or other events. The token type may be represented using text color e.g. a gold token may be worth ten dollars and a copper token may be worth one dollar graphics and or representation.

In an implementation wager processing instructions may use one or more tokens to place one or more wagers. The one or more tokens may be associated with a single user account or from multiple user accounts e.g. for pooled wagers .

For a given pooled wager a given token may correspond to a fraction of the pooled wager. In other words the given wager may be formed from multiple tokens each token being associated with a corresponding user account a system account and or other accounts. This allows multiple users to pool their tokens together to place a wager e.g. to form a larger wager than would be possible otherwise . Any payout resulting from the pooled wager may be distributed in proportion to the number of tokens that each user contributed to the pooled wager.

In an implementation wager processing instructions may allocate any payout to a token associated with a winning payout and or to other tokens. For example when the user purchases several tokens and corresponding wagers are placed for each token winnings resulting from a wager associated with one token may be distributed in whole or in part to the other tokens. If a given token resulted in a large winning and five other tokens resulted in no winnings for example wager processing instructions may allocate winnings from the given token across the five other tokens. In this manner regardless of which token is used to interact with interactive media e.g. playing a game watching a video etc. the user will receive a reward as a result of the user interaction.

As discussed in greater detail elsewhere herein tokens may be associated with events wagers that occurred in the past where the system associating the tokens with the wagers does not have access to the wager outcome with respect to a given token at the time the wagers are allocated to tokens or customers. For example the outcome may be cryptographically encoded and stored so that the outcome is digitally sealed and tamperproof.

In an implementation wager processing instructions may take into account fees charged by different wagering system s intermediaries government entities and or others in deciding how to allocate wagers. For example the system may access such fee information and determine that wagers should not be placed or should be placed relatively less frequently at certain wagering system s or in certain states or cities because the fee s are too large. The determination as to where to place bets may be made to enhance profitability of the system operator and or to minimize such fees.

In an implementation wager processing instructions may use one or more wager rules that specify how to select wagers an amount of wager that should be placed which wagering system s should be used and or other characteristics related to selecting wagers. Wager processing instructions may apply the wager rules to a given user or set of users to select and place wagers. For example wager processing instructions may apply a wager rule that specifies that straight wagers should be placed for users having low risk tolerance and apply the wager rule to a particular user that is associated with low risk tolerance.

In an implementation wager outcome reveal instructions may identify games or other interactive media in which a reveal should occur a timing of a reveal an amount of a reveal and or other aspect of a given reveal. Such decisions may be based on various factors such as without limitation an amount of payouts to be revealed for a user when outcomes of real world wagers will be available whether a partner promotion provider is promoting an item e.g. high value reveals may be steered toward games being promoted high value reveals may be associated with certain advertisements etc. and or other factors.

In an implementation wager outcome reveal instructions may reveal an outcome of a real world wager through one or more interactive media interfaces with which a user associated with the real world wager interacts to obtain the outcome. The outcome may include a payout a loss or a draw. The one or more interactive media interfaces may be generated by wager outcome reveal instructions or by third party interactive media provider s .

In an implementation wager outcome reveal instructions may reveal the outcome such that the outcome appears to have resulted from user interaction with an interactive media interface. For example the outcome may be revealed such that it appears to have resulted from the user having satisfied one or more objectives in the interactive media interface.

The one or more objectives may include without limitation winning a game solving at least a portion of a puzzle striking one or more targets user achieving a certain number of points a certain performance level or title accomplishing a task within a specified period of time accessing a certain virtual area collecting a certain virtual item beating another user playing an interactive game playing a certain period of time a random event e.g. a number selected using a random number generator a user input e.g. user defined values for inputs a physical action a physiological condition e.g. a monitored heartbeat a level of perspiration a blood glucose level etc. the monitored physiological condition may be obtained from a wearable device and or other monitoring device completion of a game watching a video watching a certain number of videos watching a video for a certain period of time listening to audio content e.g. music podcast etc. listening to audio content for a certain period of time viewing an image viewing a certain number of images watching an advertisement clicking on or otherwise selecting an advertisement and or other objectives that can be monitored with respect to interactive media content.

In an implementation wager outcome reveal instructions may or may not indicate the objective to the user. For example in some instances wager outcome reveal instructions may indicate to the user that if the objective is accomplished then a reward will be granted to the user. If the objective is accomplished wager outcome reveal instructions may reveal the wager outcome which is predefined to the user in the form of the reward.

The reward may include the wager outcome itself e.g. a payout amount an equivalent value of the payout in additional tokens an equivalent value of the payout added to the token used to place the wager an additional bonus e.g. one or more additional tokens virtual item currency value and or other item of value or perceived value. In this manner wager outcome reveal instructions may reveal the wager outcome such that the reward appears to have resulted from accomplishment of the objective even though the reward resulted from the outcome of the wager which occurred before the objective was even attempted. If the objective is not accomplished then the wager outcome e.g. payout may be revealed to the user at another time in association with another objective.

In an example embodiment once the wager is placed and optionally not until all the sporting events races are concluded and the wager results are determined by the system the interactive game may begin although as discussed elsewhere herein optionally gameplay may begin before the wager is placed and or results are known . Based at least in part on the detection of certain interactions of the user with the interactive game the user may be awarded additional tokens and or legal currency or other item of value. The awards may be based in whole or in part on the results of the bet s placed based on the token value. However optionally it may appear to the user that the awards are based on game activity and not dependent on an external physical sporting event. The user may optionally be notified substantially immediately upon the occurrence of certain interactions that trigger a reveal of an award of the corresponding award e.g. the award amount . The award may be displayed to the user while the interactive game interface is also displayed and may be displayed within the interactive game and or external to the interactive game.

For example if the game is a target game a portion of the winnings corresponding to the bet s may be awarded to the user each time the user hits a target where the award including the amount is displayed to the user substantially immediately after a target is hit. Thus the reveal of the wager winnings may be incrementally revealed to the user in a time delayed manner in the environment of the interactive game. Different amounts may be awarded revealed based at least in part on the type interaction such as the type of target hit or the area of a target.

For example if the user purchased a 1.00 token s and applied the token s to play the interactive game then 1.00 minus any features deducted by the system may be wagered on one or more races. Assuming that the 1.00 in bets resulted in a 3.00 payout and the target is a bulls eye with different award zones e.g. a 1.00 award zone near the center of the target a 50 cent award zone surrounding the 1.00 award zone and a 25 cent award zone surrounding the 50 cent award zone each time the user hits a given zone with a virtual projectile the corresponding award is displayed to the user. Once the system determines that the user has been awarded the 3.00 payout minus any deductions the user is so informed and is prompted by the system to purchase more tokens or to use already purchased tokens in the user s account. Otherwise the game is optionally ended by the system.

Gameplay may optionally be modified by the system based at least in part on the results of the wager s associated with the token s used to play the game the results of a wager s associated with the token s used to play a different game the value of the token s played the type of tokens played and or the number of tokens played. For example based on one or more of the foregoing criteria a user may be given more virtual lives extended game play additional weapons additional powers additional land additional bonus points more game events shown etc. By way of further example gameplay modifications may include modifying game decision points a reordering of game events the provision of bonuses e.g. in the form of points virtual goods badges in game prizes the provision of bonus points that may have redemption value e.g. that can be exchanged for physical goods services monetary exchange etc. the modification of the path of moving objects within the game the modification of the form of objects within the game ending a game round or period of play earlier extending a game round or period of play enabling the user to continue playing at the next game level without having to restart at the beginning of the game e.g. if the user loses the game the user does not have to start back at the beginning or if the user s token has been played out the user may be permitted to add additional tokens without having to start back at the beginning of the game etc.

Thus certain embodiments time shift the display of results of wagers in order for the consumer to have the illusion that the awards are being won in real time as a result of the user s game play even though the results of the wagers may already be known by the system prior to the user playing the game and even though the user may be able to collect the results of the wagers without playing the game.

Further game events may optionally be used as a metaphor for a time delay or wait period. Such metaphors may time shift game play to match the availability of tokens. By way of example and not limitation the user may have selected a game to play but the wager results for the token applied to the selected game may be still unknown and so in certain embodiments the selected game may not be ready for play . In order to entertain the user until the results are known e.g. when a wagered on race result is declared the system may by way of example and not limitation present the user with a racing game with an unknown finish line. The user may continue racing without the wager results being revealed as they are not yet known. Once the wager results become available the finish line may be presented in the game as a metaphor indicating to the user that the token is ready to be played. When the user crosses the finish line the game play for the selected game may begin or a payout may be revealed. A progress bar may also be displayed reflecting the progress of token availability.

In an implementation the number of tokens that are revealed e.g. results of associated wagers that are revealed Optionally the number of in game prizes that can be or are revealed may be based at least in part on the number of tokens played.

In an implementation because a given token may be associated with one or more real world wagers wager outcome reveal instructions may reveal payouts in association with tokens. For example wager outcome reveal instructions may reveal that a particular token is associated with a particular wager outcome.

Assuming that the user owns several tokens for which corresponding wager outcomes have not been yet been revealed to the user wager outcome reveal instructions may select tokens to reveal e.g. select wager outcomes corresponding to tokens based on the outcome and or odds of the wagers corresponding to the tokens and or other factors.

For example if three tokens resulted in winnings and two other tokens resulted in no winnings wager outcome reveal instructions may alternate between revealing a token associated with winnings with a token associated with no winnings so that the user is not disappointed by having several reveals in a row with no winnings.

In another example if the user captures a valuable e.g. rare item such as a gold chest in a game the wager outcome reveal instructions may reveal a token associated with a relatively large payout e.g. low odds of winning but large payout . On the other hand if the user finds a low value e.g. abundant item such as a glove the wager outcome reveal instructions may reveal a token associated with a relatively small payout e.g. high odds of winning . Thus wager outcome reveal instructions may select which tokens and or value of a payout to reveal based on events that occur in a game.

In an implementation wager outcome reveal instructions may determine a win loss gradation such that a given outcome is placed along the gradation. For example a given wager may result in a net win e.g. wager five dollars receive ten dollars in winnings a partial loss e.g. wager five dollars receive two dollars in winnings or complete loss e.g. wager five dollars receive zero dollars . A win loss ratio which may be expressed as a percentage or other value may be determined for the amount of the win compared to the amount of the loss. For example the ten dollar win may equate to 100 percent e.g. net 100 percent of the real world wager the two dollar win may equate to 40 percent e.g. net 40 percent of the real world wager and the zero dollar win may equate to 0 percent. Depending on the win loss ratio for a given outcome wager outcome reveal instructions may provide different reveals in which items are revealed instead of or in addition to the cash value that may have been won. For example for lower win loss ratios wager outcome reveal instructions may reveal less desirable items while for higher win loss ratios wager outcome reveal instructions may reveal more desirable items.

Optionally a token or group of tokens may be shared by a group of users. For example a group of users may pool funds together to purchase a group of one or more tokens. All of the users may have been contributed equally to the purchase or different users may have contributed different amounts to the token purchase. The users may optionally play an interactive game together e.g. a multi player interactive game wherein award reveals may occur upon certain events within the game as similarly discussed above. Optionally the award reveals may be provided to all the users or a subset thereof at substantially the same time. Optionally the distribution of the payout to users may be proportionate to their share of the contribution in purchasing the token s .

Optionally two or more users may play against each other in an electronic game and place bets using tokens as to who will win where the winner is awarded the tokens and the associated race winnings wager by the loser. Optionally the system determines whether a given user has viewed the results of wagers associated with a token by examining the history of winning reveals for the respective token. For example the winnings may have been revealed to the user during an interactive game or by the user examining the user s account information. If the user has viewed the results of wagers associated with a token the system may prevent the user from betting that token against another user in a game as the user may otherwise unfairly wager a token that the user knows has little or no winnings associated with it.

Optionally a process may be utilized to enable a wagering outcome to be transmitted and revealed later securely so that it will be known whether the wagering outcome was viewed by the user and or system.

For example a process may be provided enabling a wagering outcome to be encrypted transmitted and later revealed securely where an indication is provided if the outcome had been earlier revealed or inspected. For example this process enables computer system to place wagers and without knowing the wager results assign the wager results e.g. in the form of tokens to users. This prevents computer system operator from favoring certain users with tokens that are known to be good tokens because computer system will not know which tokens are good tokens associated with significant winnings. Further this process enables a user to initiate a game using a token and if the user quits the game without computer system revealing the token results lets the user re use the token in another game or in a wager with another user. Thus certain embodiments enable computer system to determine if a reveal occurred or not and to transfer and manipulate tokens without knowing a wager outcome associated with a token prior to the outcome being revealed to the user.

By way of illustration online wagering would benefit from such a mechanism to exchange secret information e.g. wager results associated with a token so that the results cannot be revealed by computer system or a user without evidence of their having done so. Further the mechanism provides a reveal timestamp indicating when the results were revealed and record a tamper proof journal entry of the exchange of information.

In an example embodiment computer system may place wagers e.g. random wagers . The wager results when received are cryptographically sealed. The results may be viewed but the process of viewing creates a permanent record that the viewing has occurred so that the viewer whether computer system or a user cannot hide the fact that the wager results were viewed or otherwise revealed.

By way of further example computer system may request a number of previously settled and securely sealed wagers tokens to reveal to a user. Some of the tokens during game play are revealed to the user while others are not. The tokens that are not revealed are returned to the dispensing system. Because there is no indication that the seal was broken and the wagers revealed the dispensing system has confidence that the returned tokens have not been revealed and can dispense them again later to the user or optionally another user .

In particular with reference to a series of tokens in the foregoing examples the series of tokens may be the same as an associated series of facts wager outcomes . When a fact is encrypted with an asymmetric or symmetric key it becomes a secret. When it can be established that an entity e.g. computer system a viewer a recipient has access to both the secret and the key then it can be presumed that the secret has been revealed to the entity.

Party A e.g. a wager placing system places the wagers and knows the outcomes. A batch of outcomes are selected and shuffled using commutative encryption with Party B. The batches may optionally be formed so that each batch is associated with a similar total value of the wagers so that each batch has the same or approximately the same value. Neither Party A nor B knows the order of the shuffled encrypted wager outcomes secrets. Party B or Party C assigner of tokens to wagers additionally applies one or more keys based on one or more salted hash sequences to further encrypt the secrets in the shuffled order. Keys may be stored with the encrypted sequences so that secrets need to be decrypted in shuffled order. At this point Party A had knowledge of the outcomes but cannot decrypt the items in the shuffled order. Party B or Party C knows the sequence but still does not know the original outcomes.

Individual secrets in the shuffled order can be dispensed to third parties which request the keys for secrets they reveal. Once the keys are distributed computer system may assume the secrets have been revealed whether or not the keys have been actually used to reveal the secrets.

If Party B or Party C wants to associate tokens with secrets the tokens can be stored in a known sequence with an incrementing identifier by way of example . The tokens are then defined to be assigned in the shuffled secret order.

Keys may be exchanged and or recorded using public proof of work networks such as the Bitcoin network which verifies transactions using encryption and linked time stamping or otherwise.

Optionally a token may be configured to place wagers in different time frames and or in different currencies. For example for a given token or set of tokens to be used to access an interactive game computer system may place some or all of the bets in different countries with respectively different currencies. Because a given token or set of tokens may be associated with wagers placed on a plurality of events e.g. races a given wager may be placed on an event e.g. a race occurring at a different time than another event corresponding to another of the wagers.

Optionally tokens may be used to purchase virtual items in a game such as more plays of the game additional lives bonus points land weapons powers etc. Optionally virtual currency is provided to the user to make such purchases as a benefit of purchasing a token to be wagered. As noted elsewhere herein promotional tokens may be provided to the user as a rebate and or utilizing a portion of the profits received by computer system operator. Thus the promotion tokens may be used as a marketing tool enabling the user to make additional wagers.

When the user accesses computer system a user interface may be presented to the user enabling the user to select an interactive game mode or a user wagering mode. For example in a user wagering mode the user may make direct wagering decisions such as by directly placing bets on sporting events e.g. selecting tracks races horses wager types wager amounts etc. and wherein payouts are not revealed as part of an interactive game but are instead simply revealed after a race or races corresponding to the user placed bet is completed. Optionally computer system may enable the user to use the same user account and ADW account to access and utilize either mode e.g. for direct wagering and playing interactive games .

When the user is ready to play a game and selects the interactive game mode the user may select the interactive game from a plurality of available games via a game menu or otherwise. Games may be presented to the user in one or more groupings wherein the groupings may be based at least in part on how many tokens are needed to play the game. In addition or instead games may be grouped according to game type or other game characteristics e.g. action games strategy games one person shooter games card games most popular games newest games etc. . The amount wagered may correspond to the tokens needed to play the game.

Optionally one or more bets are placed at least partly in response to a token being purchased e.g. on the next suitable event on which a wager may be placed . Depending on the availability of sporting events to wager on the user may be informed that the game play will be delayed until such an event is completed to thereby enable the wager to be placed on the event and the results of the wager to be known. Optionally one or more bets are placed at least partly in response an interactive game being initiated by the user.

Depending on the availability of sporting events to wager on when the user purchases a token a corresponding wager may not be immediately placed and the initiation of the interactive game with respect to the user may be optionally correspondingly delayed. For example if there is no race beginning for 5 minutes corresponding to 11 35 PM local user time computer system may estimate how long it will take to complete the race e.g. 2 minutes after the race starts and may calculate the total time until the race is estimated to be over e.g. 5 minutes until the race starts 2 minutes until the race is estimated to be completed . Computer system may then generate a wait notification which may be provided for display via a user terminal to the user indicating when the interactive game will begin which may correspond to about the start time of the race and the estimated race duration e.g. your game will start in about 7 minutes at about 11 37 PM . Optionally the interactive game may begin prior to the race or the completion of the event but the results of the wager are not revealed to the user until the completion of the event and after the results of the wager are received by computer system which may be after the user has completed the interactive game where the results may be revealed in a delayed fashion as similarly described above. Optionally the interactive game may begin prior to the race or after the beginning but prior to the completion of the race but the wager is not placed until one or more specified events occur with respect to the game. Optionally the user may queue up results for one or more tokens so that there will generally be a token whose results are known and is ready for playing.

Optionally the game may be ended when all the wager results are revealed to the user during the game. Optionally when all the wager results are revealed to the user during the game the user may be prompted and enabled to purchase additional tokens which may be wagered and which will enable the user to continue playing the game without the user having to start the game over. Optionally computer system may enable the user to continue playing the game with no additional token s wager s revealed to the user

Optionally the user may inspect the results of the underlying wager s and or risk reward event s and view the corresponding payouts without having to play the interactive game e.g. by accessing a user account interface . Optionally the results of the bets and the winning amounts if any are automatically revealed to the user upon the user completing the corresponding game. Optionally the user may be able to collect or withdraw winnings without having to play a game e.g. via a user account information user interface .

Optionally a user may be awarded tokens as a consolation prize for losing one or more bets for playing a certain number of games for purchasing a certain number of tokens for being a registered user for a specified period of time randomly and or otherwise.

In an implementation database s may include a user database that stores enrollment and other information known about the user an accounts database that stores user accounts e.g. actual user accounts tracking accounts etc. for each user a wager rules database that stores rules used to determine wagers a reveal rules database that specifies parameters used to identify when and how to reveal wagers and or other databases that includes information obtained by computer system .

In an implementation third party interactive media API may include various interfaces such as system calls that provide access to some of all of the functions described herein that are relevant to third party interactive media providers s . Third party interactive media API allows various third party interactive media provider s an ability to provide reveals including amounts of reveals to provide difficulty of objectives that should be used in a reveal when to provide reveals etc. through their own interactive media thereby expanding the reveal platform to include a wide range of interactive media publishers.

In an implementation partner API may include various interfaces such as system calls that provide access to some of all of the functions described herein that are relevant to partner promotions provider s . For example using partner API partner promotions provider s may provide advertisements incentives sample games and or other media that is being promoted using the platform provided by computer system . For example and without limitation a reveal may be provided if a user interacts with an advertisement provided by partner promotions provider s .

Wagering system s may include automated e.g. electronically placed wagers through network without system operator intervention and or manual e.g. wagers placed using system operators who work on behalf of an entity operating computer system wagering systems. Such wagering system s may be operated by various entities such as horse tracks casinos and or other wagering systems that lawfully allow wagers to be placed.

Payment system s may include conventional electronic funds transfer systems used for credit card and other payments ACH systems online payment systems e.g. PAYPAL BITCOIN payment systems exchanges and or other payment systems that facilitating funds transfers.

Third party interactive media provider s may include for example game developers that provide interactive games video providers that stream or provide downloadable video content music providers that stream or provide downloadable music content and or other types of media providers. Third party interactive media provider s may use third party interactive media API to interface with computer system to obtain real world wager outcomes and present the outcomes through their own interactive media platforms. Such third party interactive media provider s may include game developers media providers that stream or provide multimedia downloads and or other providers of interactive media.

Partner promotions provider s may include entities that wish to promote an item such as a good or service. Partner promotions provider s may use computer system to provide promotions which may serve as the basis for a reveal such as an invitation to a user to view an advertisement to receive a reward even though the reward is based on an outcome of a real world wager and not on viewing the advertisement .

User device s may include a device that can interact with computer system through network . Such user device s may include without limitation a tablet computing device a smartphone a laptop computing device a desktop computing device a network enabled appliance such as a Smart television and or other device that may interact with computer system .

Having described an overall use and components of computer system additional implementations of various processing operations of computer system will now be described. The various processing operations that will now be described may relate to various implementations of real world wager triggers selection of real world wagers reveals of the outcome of real world wagers and or other aspects of computer system . It should be appreciated that the following may be combined with one another as well as with other processing operations described herein. For example a particular implementation of a wager trigger may be used in combination with a particular implementation of a reveal. Other combinations are contemplated as well.

As described with respect to the various implementations that follow unless specifically specified as triggering a real world wager the wager triggers can relate either to a real world wager or to a simulated wager. A real world wager trigger or triggering real world wagers may cause a real world wager to be placed. A simulated wager trigger may cause a simulated wager to be placed e.g. a simulated wager against another player a virtual pull on a virtual slot machine acceptance of an objective to win something of value in a game or other interactive media etc. . In some implementations a simulated wager may merely result in a reveal of an outcome of a real world wager that has already occurred before the simulated wager giving the user the impression that the simulated wager resulted in the outcome . In other implementations a simulated wager may trigger a real world wager to occur. In these implementations a game or other interactive media may wait for the outcome of the real world wager and then provide a reveal of the outcome through the game or other interactive media so that the outcome appears to have resulted from the simulated wager.

As described herein a real world wager may be initiated upon acquisition of a token e.g. when a user purchases or otherwise acquires a token user selection or initiation of interactive media e.g. selection of a game to play an occurrence of an event in the interactive media e.g. based on a user controlled or other in game action and or other events that can trigger the real world wager.

The initiation of the real world wager may specify a given real world wager to make e.g. specify a horse race or other event on which to place the wager an amount of the wager a number of wagers to make etc. and or computer system may select the real world wager based at least in part on one or more wager rules described herein. In some instances the wager event on which the selected real world wager is placed may occur in the future. For example a horse race may be selected but may not occur until another five minutes. Thus the outcome of the horse race may not be known until at least another five minutes plus the time it takes for the horse race to complete and the outcome to be made available .

In an implementation computer system may delay the reveal of the outcome through interactive media provided to the user associated with the real world wager until the outcome is known. The delay may be accomplished in various ways.

If interactive media has not yet been selected by the user associated with the real world wager computer system may select a particular interactive medium to provide to the user while waiting for the outcome of the real world wager. This may occur for example when a user purchases a token and the token purchase triggers a real world wager. If the user has not selected interactive media e.g. a game to play and an outcome of a real world wager is not yet available computer system may select and suggest interactive media for the user while waiting for the outcome of the real world wager to become available.

The selected interactive media may be used to reveal the outcome when the outcome is available. Computer system may select the interactive media based on its suitability to delay a reveal opportunity based on when the outcome of the real world wager will become available. For example and without limitation the reveal opportunity may include a finish line in a racing game. The finish line may not be presented to the user until the wager outcome is known. In the foregoing example the finish line may not be presented or achievable until at least five minutes after the game has been selected when the outcome of the horse race is known .

In an implementation the in game event or other interactive media event may be presented to the user based on an estimated time that the outcome will be available and provide a reveal opportunity based on the estimated time. For example computer system may estimate that the outcome of the horse race will be available in five minutes. Computer system may cause a finish line in the racing game to be achievable after at least five minutes after starting a race in the racing game. In this manner the manner in which the outcome is revealed may be delayed through selection of the interactive media content to present to the user while awaiting the outcome. When available the outcome of the real world wager may be revealed to the user to give an appearance to the user that the outcome resulted from the results of the race.

On the other hand the selected game may be used to occupy the user until the outcome is available at which time a game that is used to reveal the outcome may be presented to the user. In other words the selected game may not be used to reveal the outcome but rather to give the user interactive media content to use while waiting for the outcome. In an implementation computer system may select the game or other interactive media based on an estimated time that the outcome will be available. For example and without limitation for longer wait times computer system may select a more difficult game a game having a greater number of levels and or a game that takes a relatively long time to play learn. For shorter wait times computer system may select a less difficult game a game having a fewer number of levels and or a game that takes a relative short time to play learn.

If interactive media has already been started by the user associated with the real world wager e.g. when an in game action triggers the wager computer system may delay reveal opportunities within the interactive media. For example computer system may provide the user with a new race level that has a finish line based on an estimated time that the outcome will be available.

In an implementation if the reveal opportunity is forfeited then the outcome of the real world wager may not be revealed. Instead the outcome may be revealed during another reveal opportunity in which case the actual user account may not be updated and the tracking account may continue to store a value of a payout or a loss associated with the real world wager or otherwise one or more accounts associated with the user will be made to reflect the unrevealed outcome. For example if the user exits the racing game before reaching the finish line the outcome of the real world wager may not be revealed.

In an implementation computer system may provide a wager opportunity to a user. The wager opportunity may be associated with an objective e.g. get a bulls eye to win five dollars stream a winning video from among various videos to win five dollars etc. that gives the appearance to the user that the user is wagering on the outcome of the objective to potentially receive a reward when in fact the reward or loss depends on an outcome of a real world wager.

In an implementation the wager opportunity if accepted may cause computer system to place an actual real world wager on which the accepted wager opportunity depends. In an implementation computer system may pre associate the wager opportunity with an existing real world wager the outcome of which may or may not already be decided. The outcome of the pre existing or newly placed real world wager may be revealed using the reveal platform described herein.

Providing such wager opportunities may enhance an entertainment value of interactive media because the user may be given an appearance that interaction with the interactive media causes the outcome of the wagers. Thus computer system may trigger wager opportunities at various times and for various reasons to enhance the entertainment value of interactive media and or for other reasons. Having generally described triggering wagering opportunities various implementations of triggering wagering opportunities will now be described.

In an implementation computer system may provide a wager opportunity based on the occurrence of certain user interactions with interactive media. Upon the occurrence of a certain user interaction the user may be provided with an opportunity to place a wager assuming that the user has sufficient funds in his her corresponding actual user account . For example certain in game actions in a game may be rewarded with an opportunity to place a wager thereby enhancing an entertainment value of gameplay.

In a particular example computer system may provide a match three game where an objective is to match three or more items e.g. gems that share a similar characteristic e.g. being the same type of gem . When a user matches four or more gems computer system may provide the user with a wager opportunity. For example computer system may provide a congratulatory message with an opportunity to place a wager. The wager opportunity may be direct e.g. place a wager now or may be indirect e.g. match four gems to place a wager . In an implementation depending on user preferences an in game action may automatically trigger a wager. For example when a user matches four or more gems a wager may be placed automatically on behalf of the user.

Computer system may determine one or more wager parameters e.g. amount type wager event etc. whether placed based on an accomplished objective or automatically placed based on an input from the user e.g. a user specifying the amount one or more wager rules a user profile and or other parameter described herein used to select wagers.

In an implementation computer system may associate a wager opportunity with a previous wager. For example computer system may present a Solitaire game or other interactive media to the user that requires five dollars to play or otherwise access . Upon selection of the Solitaire game and payment of five dollars from the user e.g. using one or more tokens valued at five dollars computer system may place a first wager in the amount of five dollars and initiate the Solitaire game either soon after payment or delayed until the outcome of the first wager is known . The outcome of the first wager may be obtained and revealed as described herein.

While playing the Solitaire game a Joker or other card may be revealed that triggers a wager opportunity that if accepted by the user causes computer system to place a second wager the outcome of which may be obtained and revealed as described herein. Computer system may provide the wager opportunity in association with the first wager. For example computer system may invite the user to double down by paying an additional five dollars or other amount to increase the potential payout of the Solitaire game but also increase the potential loss . Upon receipt of payment of the additional five dollars computer system may place the second wager. Alternatively if a wager event e.g. a horse race associated with the first wager is still available to be wagered upon computer system may increase the amount of the first wager and or place another wager on the wager event. In this manner by paying five dollars to play the Solitaire game the user causes computer system to make a wager in the amount of five dollars. By doubling down based on an in game action the user causes computer system to double down on the wager by adding an additional amount to the wager and or making a second wager.

In an implementation computer system may trigger a wager opportunity based on a pattern of interaction with a given interactive media. For example computer system may determine that a user tends to play a game for longer periods of time during the weekend than the weekday. When the user plays the game during the weekday computer system may trigger a wager opportunity to enhance an entertainment value of the game during the weekday. Computer system may trigger wager opportunities based on such patterns differently for different interactive media. For example a given game may prefer to provide a wager opportunity when the user is not typically engaged with the game as determined from the pattern of interaction to incent the user to be more engaged whereas another game may prefer to reward the user with a wager opportunity when the user is engaged with the game.

In an implementation computer system may trigger a wager opportunity based on a lack of interaction with a given interactive media for a threshold period of time. For example if a user has not played a given game streamed a video etc. within the last two weeks computer system may provide the user with a wager opportunity the next time that the user plays the given game streams a video etc.

In an implementation computer system may trigger a wager opportunity based on a level of completion of interactive media being provided to the user. For example computer system may trigger a wager opportunity when gameplay of a user is within a predetermined number of objectives of completing a level and or a game when an amount of remaining content of media content e.g. video audio etc. is below a predetermined threshold and or when interactive media is otherwise imminent to end.

In an implementation computer system may trigger a wager opportunity based on leaderboard positions movement of positions of the leaderboard and or other information related to a leaderboard. For example computer system may reward a user that is at the top or a predetermined number of rankings from the top of a leaderboard with a wager opportunity and or may incent others to remain engaged by providing a wager opportunity.

In an implementation computer system may trigger a wager opportunity based on external information. The external information may include without limitation social profile information location information partner provided information content consumption information timing information and or other information that may be used to trigger a wager opportunity.

In an implementation computer system may trigger a wager opportunity based on social profile information which may include without limitation birthdays status updates location check ins gameplay rankings relative to connected friends and or other information that can be gleaned from a user s social profile. In this manner computer system may congratulate a user in relation to the social profile information e.g. wishing the user a happy birthday or otherwise provide a wager opportunity to the user based on the social profile information.

In an implementation computer system may trigger a wager opportunity based on location information which may indicate a location of the user. Computer system may obtain the location information via a user s mobile device for which identifying information may have been obtained during user enrollment a social media check in and or other location technique.

For example and without limitation computer system may identify a partner promotions provider based on the proximity of the user to a retail location of the partner promotions provider . Computer system may trigger a wager opportunity that relates to partner promotions provider . For example computer system may incent the user to purchase a promoted item from partner promotions provider for a chance to win ten dollars.

In another example computer system may present a wager opportunity based the location of the user within a jurisdiction that allows certain types of real world wagers to be placed. If the user is detected to be within the jurisdiction a wager opportunity may be provided to the user.

In an implementation computer system may trigger a wager opportunity based on partner provided information which may include without limitation customer purchasing patterns loyalty programs and or other information provided by a partner promotions provider . The computer system may use the partner provided information to customize wager opportunities for the user. For example based on the purchasing patterns of the user computer system may determine that certain wagering opportunities are more relevant to the user than other wagering opportunities. Such patterns may be discerned based on an analysis of other users purchase patterns in relation to wagering opportunities that were accepted by those users.

In an implementation computer system may trigger a wager opportunity based on content consumption information. For example computer system may determine that a user is watching a particular episode of a particular show using a third party media provider . In an implementation the wager opportunity may relate to the episode e.g. wager on an outcome of the episode and or the third party media provider that is providing the episode for viewing e.g. a reward may include a free month of service from the third party media provider which may or may not be paid for using an outcome of a real world wager .

In an implementation computer system may trigger a wager opportunity based on timing information which may include without limitation a date time that the user is accessing interactive media. In a particular example if a user is playing a game at a particular time e.g. late night a special wagering opportunity associated with that time may be provided to the user. The special wagering opportunity in an implementation may be available only for users playing a game or interacting with other media during the particular time. The special wagering opportunity may provide a benefit e.g. a guaranteed bonus item and or other guaranteed value that is not available with other wagering opportunities.

In an implementation computer system may trigger reveals based on multiplayer interactions such as for example a player versus player PvP interaction a tournament interaction a massively multiplayer online MMO interaction and or other types of multiplayer interactions. Regardless of the type of multiplayer interaction computer system may manage reveals based on an individual user s unrevealed payout amount e.g. each user s tracking account . For example for a given user computer system may use the amount in the given user s tracking account to set the maximum amount that a user will be allowed to win from a multiplayer interaction. If a given user has a ten dollar unrevealed balance in a tracking account then a maximum amount the user will be able to appear to win may be ten dollars. Similarly the given user may be limited to a cumulative virtual wager of no more than ten dollars so that the user cannot appear to win more than ten dollars from an opponent.

Regardless of the type of multiplayer interaction computer system may provide a game in which two users play against one another. Such games can include for example card games e.g. poker puzzle games shooter games and or other games in which two players may be compete against one another. A first player may appear to win a payout and a second player may appear to lose a payout e.g. apparently resulting from the competition . In fact the won payout may be transferred from the first player s tracking account to the first player s actual user account and the lost payout may be added to the second user s tracking account and deducted from the second user s actual account. In this manner the first user is given the impression of having won the payout e.g. taken the payout from the second user and the second user is given the impression of having lost the payout e.g. to the first player even though the second player really hasn t lost the payout. Later the lost payout will be revealed to the second user during another reveal opportunity in order to transfer back the lost payout from the second user s tracking account to the second user s actual user account.

Other types of multiplayer games including two or more players other than head to head may use similar mechanics to drive apparent wins and losses between players.

In an implementation computer system may trigger a wager opportunity based on a promotion from partner promotions provider . For example partner promotions provider may provide an advertisement e.g. an online or mobile advertisement to be displayed to the user. The advertisement may be wager enabled such that computer system triggers a wager opportunity when the user interacts with the advertisement. For example and without limitation the advertisement may include a mini game that when played causes a wager opportunity to be triggered which may relate to the mini game and or other interactive media as described herein a call to action e.g. a clickable link a fillable form field etc. that when responded to by the user triggers the wager opportunity and or other content that when interacted with triggers a wager opportunity.

It should be understood that the advertisement may but need not be served by computer system . For example computer system may serve advertisement to the user while the user is interacting with an wagering interface or interactive media provided by computer system . In other examples computer system may provide the advertisement to third party interactive media providers that display the advertisement on their own games for example . In yet other examples computer system may provide the advertisement to website operators that distribute the advertisement on their own websites or other media.

When the advertisement is provided to third party interactive media providers or others computer system may embed a link or other call back to computer system such that computer system may immediately trigger a wager opportunity to the user e.g. via a popup window responsive to user interaction with the advertisement and or log the interaction with the advertisement such that the user is provided with a wager opportunity related to the advertisement the next time that the user logs onto computer system . For example the advertisement may include a link that points to a Uniform Resource Locator URL associated with computer system . The link may cause a separate browser window to be opened that includes a user interface provided by computer system . The link may include user identification information that identifies the user and or the user interface may prompt the user to login to computer system . The user interface may present a wager opportunity to the user upon identification and or authentication of the user.

In an implementation the wager opportunity may be related to the advertisement. For example the advertisement may promote an online item that if purchased qualifies the user to win a reward a winner of which may be randomly selected from a pool of users that purchased the item.

In an implementation computer system may reveal an outcome of a real world wager. The real world wager may have been initiated and selected as described herein. Computer system may obtain an outcome of the real world wager and update a tracking account of a user. The tracking account may store an indication of the outcome e.g. an amount of a payout or a loss . Computer system may select an appropriate time and or interactive media to reveal the outcome of the real world wager through user interactions with interactive media so that the user may perceive that the outcome resulted from the user interactions.

For example a payout in the amount of ten dollars may have resulted from a real world wager that was placed by computer system on behalf of the user. A tracking account of a user may be incremented by ten dollars until the ten dollar payout has been revealed to the user. The reveal may occur in various ways.

In an implementation computer system may reveal an outcome of a single real world wager through a single reveal. For example a payout may be revealed based on an occurrence of a single event such as without limitation turning over a specific card opening a chest in a game to reveal the payout matching three gems in a match three game having viewed a video at a particular time e.g. having viewed the video until the three minute mark and or other single events that can occur in interactive media. In each of the foregoing examples the payout from the real world wager may appear to the user to have resulted from the event e.g. turning over the specific card when in fact the payout resulted from winning the real world wager.

In an implementation computer system may reveal an outcome of a single real world wager through multiple reveals. For example a payout may be revealed through several different events in interactive media. The payout may be split into increments and revealed over several events that can occur in interactive media such as those described above with respect to single events . Each of the increments may be the same value as other increments e.g. five two dollar payouts to reveal a ten dollar payout or different value e.g. a one dollar payout and a nine dollar payout to reveal a ten dollar payout .

In some instances each increment may be separately revealed won. For example turning over a particular card will reveal two of a ten dollar payout. In other instances all of the increments may be revealed in an all or none fashion such that all events is required before the total payout. For example the user may be required to perform five tasks in order to have the ten dollar reveal provided such that the failure of either one of the five tasks will not result in a reveal of the ten dollar payout. In the foregoing example the ten dollar payout may not be revealed and may be maintained in the user s tracking account.

In an implementation computer system may reveal a single outcome using a reveal staircase in which the outcome is split into different increments each having a different value. In an implementation the different increments may be revealed randomly or in order of their value. For example a ten dollar payout may be revealed using four fifty cent reveals three one dollar reveals one two dollar reveal and one three dollar reveal. Each of the foregoing increments may be revealed randomly or in a manner that increases or decreases . In a particular example as a user progresses to higher game levels the four fifty cent reveals may occur before the three one dollar reveals and so forth. In this manner as the game progresses to higher levels or a video is played longer an amount of the payout that is revealed may increase.

In another example a series of reveals may escalate in value as user interaction with the interactive media progresses. For example an escalating reveal may build from zero dollars to the total payout during gameplay such as in a racing game where the user s winnings escalate as long as they stay ahead of their opponent. Other types of escalating reveals may be used as well such as increasing winnings as new game levels are achieved.

In an implementation computer system may reveal an outcome using bracketed reveals. Reveals of different values may be locked into a specific escalating platform. For example a reveal of a ten dollar payout from a real world wager may be structured as following beat one enemy win one dollar beat two enemies win four dollars beat three enemies win ten dollars. In the foregoing example if the user beats only one enemy then only one dollar will be revealed and obtained by the user e.g. credited to the user s actual user account and the remaining nine dollars of the ten dollar payout may be retained in the tracking account . If the user beats three enemies then the entire ten dollar payout may be revealed and obtained e.g. ten dollars credited to the actual user account and decremented from the tracking account . The escalating platform need not be consecutively numbered. For example the reveal may be structured as beat one enemy win one dollar beat three enemies win four dollars beat five enemies win ten dollars. Other types of bracketed reveals may be used in other contexts as well e.g. view one video win one dollar view two videos win three dollars and so on .

In an implementation computer system may reveal an outcome of a real world wager through a skill based action that is required to claim a value of the reveal. For example a user may be required to perform a skill based action in order to claim the ten dollar payout. The skill based action may include without limitation as hitting a target defeating an enemy winning a race and or other action that is not completely dependent on chance for the user to win. If the user fails to perform the skill based action the payout may not be provided to the user e.g. not added to an actual user account but instead maintained in a tracking account . In an implementation the reveal associated with a skill based action may include only payouts such that the user is guaranteed to be able to claim a payout upon successful completion of the skill based action.

In an implementation computer system may withhold a payout if one or more reveal parameters are not satisfied. A reveal parameter may specify that a minimum level of performance of an objective must be achieved for a reveal to occur. The objective may include any objective described herein including for example an amount of winnings in a game a number of points in a game a number of enemies defeated in a game a length of a video viewed a number of promotions redeemed a number of advertisements viewed etc.

If the minimum level of performance is achieved then the user may be revealed at least a portion of the payout. On the other hand if the minimum level of performance is not achieved then no portion of the payout will be revealed. If no portion of the payout is revealed then the unrevealed portion will remain in an unrevealed balance associated with the user. The unrevealed balance may be used to maintain a value of payouts that have not yet been revealed to the user and when revealed appears to the user that the user has won the revealed payout . In this manner computer system may reveal at least a portion of the payout depending on whether a minimum threshold of performance which may be predefined for an individual game or other interactive media is achieved.

For example a user s winnings in a game must exceed a threshold percentage e.g. twenty five percent of an initial virtual wager or else an entire value of the reveal will be lost. For example if a user uses a one dollar token to play a game then the user s winnings in the game must exceed twenty five cents or else an entire value of the reveal will be lost. The value of the reveal may be a payout of a real world wager that was placed by computer system in association with the one dollar token that the user used to play the game. If the user s winnings in the game do not exceed twenty five cents or equivalent value in the foregoing example then the entire reveal is lost and the payout will be retained in the unrevealed balance. In an implementation if the user s winnings exceed a threshold percentage of an original wager then at least a portion of the winnings may be held over in abeyance. For example if a user s winnings exceed 200 percent of an original wager then 25 percent of the winnings may be held over.

In an implementation computer system reveal a payout and then unreveal the payout i.e. take the payout away . Such reveal and unreveal may be based on user interactions with interactive media. For example upon completion of an objective a payout may be revealed to the user. Upon a subsequent event which may or may not relate to the objective the payout may be unrevealed. In a particular example in a capture the flag style game in which a user must grab an opponent s flag and return the flag to their own home base the user may grab an opponent flag in the game at which point computer system causes a reveal of a ten dollar payout which actually resulted from a real world wager . The user may be given the impression that grabbing the opponent flag led to the ten dollar payout.

While returning back to the user s home base another player may recapture the flag resulting in the payout being unrevealed. Had the user successfully returned the flag to the home base the payout would have been claimed such that the payout is credited to the actual user account and decremented from the tracking account . Instead because the flag was not returned to the home base the payout is unrevealed and remains in the tracking account giving the user an impression that the ten dollar payout was gained and then lost. In reality the ten dollar payout remains in the tracking account for another reveal opportunity. In an implementation all or a portion of the revealed payout may be unrevealed as described herein.

In an implementation possession of the payout may be graphically represented. For example if the user grabs the flag then a graphical representation of a bag of cash may be displayed in the game and apparently carried by the user s game character. When an unreveal occurs then the bag of cash may be removed from the game character s possession e.g. appear to be carried by the opposing player .

In an implementation computer system may provide mirage reveals that give an appearance to the user that an objective may be achieved to obtain a reward. However the objective may not be achievable thereby guaranteeing a loss. For example if a user uses a one dollar token to play a game and the token is associated with a real world wager that had a losing outcome then computer system may present an objective to the user that if attempted and accomplished results in a payout but if attempted and failed results in a loss. In this manner the user is given an impression that the payout is achievable when in fact the objective is guaranteed to fail thereby providing a mirage reveal of a payout that doesn t exist .

In an implementation the objective associated with the mirage reveal may appear to be a skill based challenge such that a user is given the impression that skillful attempts at the objective would lead to a payout. In this implementation computer system may skew a user s input to lead to failure e.g. adjust a user input that is on target to one that is off target ignore a user s input provide an objective that is impossible to complete and or otherwise cause an attempt to complete the objective to fail.

In an implementation the objective associated with the mirage reveal may appear to be a random event. For example the objective may be to spin a virtual wheel roll virtual dice guess a number that is to randomly selected and or other random event. In this manner the user may be given the impression that a randomly generated event may lead to a win when in fact the event is not random and is guaranteed to fail.

Other types of objectives that appear to be achievable but be controlled to be guaranteed to fail may be used for mirage reveals as well.

In an implementation computer system may provide guaranteed reveals that may guarantee a payout. For example computer system may inform the user that the user will have a guaranteed win if the user plays a game e.g. selects and plays a game attempts a next level e.g. attempts a new race in a racing game . The guaranteed win amount may be set as a function of an initial virtual wager. For example computer system may determine a payout for a given interactive media based on its cost of entry such as a particular value of a token required to play a game. Computer system may adjust the cost of entry to arrive at the guaranteed win. Such adjustments may include a multiplier a percentage and or other adjustment that may be made to a value. For example if the adjustment is twenty five percent and the cost to play a game is two dollar token then the guaranteed win may be fifty cents or equivalent value e.g. value in other tokens credits in game items etc. .

In an implementation computer system may provide reveals that are tied to promotions from partner promotions provider . For example computer system may provide the user with an opportunity to play a game that costs two dollars. Upon achieving some objective in the game the user may win or appear to win more than two dollars which may be deducted from the user s tracking account and added to the user s actual user account. Upon failing the objective the user may be provided with a coupon in the amount of two dollars or other amount that can be redeemed for a real purchase from partner promotions provider . In this manner the user may be presented with a win win type of virtual wager and reveal while partner promotions provider may provide promotions via computer system .

In an implementation computer system may provide mock reveals that are not driven by wagering mechanics. For example computer system may provide reveals that are tied to promotions provided by partner promotions provider virtual items e.g. certain in game items that computer system is promoting to sold and or other item that is not tied to a real world wager or a virtual wager. Computer system may provide such mock reveals to facilitate promotional campaigns retain users and or otherwise make the gaming experience more enjoyable for the user. The mock reveals may be triggered by user interactions with interactive media e.g. in game action such as a user finding a rare item in a game events that occur in interactive media without user intervention e.g. actions of other players Al players etc. and or other events that may be used to provide mock reveals.

In an implementation computer system may provide a time conditioned reveal such that a certain action must be performed to claim a potential payout. For example computer system may reveal a potential payout of ten dollars e.g. through one or more reveal mechanisms described herein subject to the user action to claim the payout. In a particular example a user may have accomplished a first task to win a potential payout. Computer system may inform the user that an action such as crossing a finish line in a race completing a puzzle beat an opponent in a virtual fight etc. must be accomplished to claim the payout. If the user performs the action then the payout is claimed in time and computer system transfers the payout amount from the user s tracking account to the user s actual user account. If the user does not perform the action then the payout is not claimed in time and in effect expires and computer system retains the payout amount in the user s tracking account giving an appearance that the user won but failed to claim the payout.

In an implementation computer system may provide a reveal decay. As with the time conditioned reveal computer system may reveal a potential payout such as ten dollars subject to the user action to claim the payout. The user may be given an opportunity to complete an action such that the longer it takes to complete the action the payout amount decreases to zero. The rate of decay of the payout e.g. payout decreases as the time it takes the user to complete the action may be predefined based on the amount of the payout e.g. faster decay for larger payouts than for smaller payouts based on the amount of the initial virtual or real world wager based on the nature difficulty of the action and or other information that can be used to adjust the rate of decay. Any amount of the payout that is decayed e.g. not claimed may be retained in the user s tracking account and any amount of the payout that is claimed may be transferred from the user s tracking account to the user s actual user account.

In an implementation computer system may provide an invitation to participate in a reveal opportunity. For example if a user s tracking account has a value associated with one or more payouts e.g. ten dollars resulting from one or more payouts of one or more real world wagers that have not yet been revealed computer system may invite the user to participate in one or more reveal opportunities to claim a portion or all of the one or more payouts. For example computer system may invite the user to play a specific game e.g. play this game to claim five dollars interact with other interactive media e.g. watch a video to win ten dollars face off against one or more other players e.g. challenge another player to win two dollars engage in some other objective and or otherwise accept an opportunity to reveal at least a portion of a payout that has not yet been revealed.

Acceptance of the invitation by the user may guarantee the reveal e.g. allow the user to claim the payout associated with the reveal such that the payout amount is transferred from the user s tracking account to the user s actual user account and or be conditioned upon achieving an objective related to the reveal. For example computer system may provide the reveal to the user upon acceptance e.g. playing a game or watching a video and or may determine whether an objective has been accomplished by the user e.g. win a level in a played game or watch a video for a certain period of time before providing the reveal.

In an implementation the user may be invited to challenge another player in a player versus player mode or other competitive mode in which two or more players compete against one another. The winner may be provided with a reveal of a payout from each of their respective tracking accounts. The winner may appear to have gained a payout from beating the loser when in fact the payout resulted from a real world wager. The loser may have appeared to lost an opportunity to win the payout when in fact the payout remains unrevealed and retained in the loser s tracking account .

In an implementation computer system may invite the challenged player to accept the challenge from the user. If the challenged player has a positive balance in his her tracking account then computer system may reveal a payout associated with the challenged player if the challenged player accepts the challenge e.g. computer system may communicate to the challenged player accept the challenge and win two dollars . The two dollar reward may appear to have resulted from the accepted challenge when in fact the two dollar reward is a portion or all of a payout that resulted from a real world wager placed on behalf of the challenged player.

In an implementation computer system may impose an apparent penalty on the challenged player if the challenge is not accepted. For example computer system may deduct an amount from the challenged player s actual user account but add the deducted amount to the challenged player s tracking account. In this manner the challenged player may appear to be penalized if the challenge is not accepted. Upon acceptance of the challenge by the challenged player computer system may provide the challenged player with a reveal of a payout if the challenge is won by the challenged player.

In an implementation upon reveal of a payout computer system may present a related reveal opportunity. For example if a user completes an objective related to a first reveal and claims a first payout the user may be presented with an opportunity to double the first payout or take nothing in a double or nothing manner. For example the user may appear to have won five dollars based on an in game action when in fact the five dollars resulted from a real world wager . Computer system may offer the user a double or nothing opportunity related to a second opportunity that if accepted and in some cases requirements of the opportunity e.g. win a level completed may result in an additional five dollar win. On the other hand if the user accepts and fails any objective related to the second opportunity computer system may remove the first payout and retain the first payout in the tracking account or transfer back the first payout to the tracking account .

In an implementation such double or nothing opportunities may be predicated on the user having sufficient value in his her tracking account. For example in the foregoing five dollar double or nothing opportunity the tracking account associated with the user may be required to have ten or more dollars of value. In an implementation if the user does not have sufficient funds to cover a double or nothing win e.g. has eight dollars in the tracking account then the user may still be offered the double or nothing opportunity but be guaranteed to lose the double or nothing opportunity because the user s tracking account value of eight dollars would not cover a ten dollar reveal .

In an implementation computer system may provide an invitation to participate in a reveal opportunity based on external triggers such as for example content geolocational data player behavior partner promotions and or other types of reveal triggers described herein.

In an implementation computer system may determine an amount of the reveal based on various factors such as without limitation total available winnings in a user s tracking account player lifetime handle player gameplay patterns percentage of available winnings versus an initiating wager current position e.g. rank score etc. on estimated player lifetime game being played etc. Reveals may be designed using all available data related to the user to craft the best possible experience for the user.

For example computer system may provide all or a portion of the available winnings in a user s tracking account using a single reveal based on any of the foregoing data. In particular to incent a user who has not accessed the game platform of computer system within the last two weeks the user may be presented with an opportunity to reveal all of the winnings available in that user s tracking account. In this manner a user whose interest in the gaming platform may be waning may be presented with the largest possible payout for that user to provide more excitement for the user.

In an implementation computer system may a reveal a payout as a cash reward e.g. defeat an enemy in a game and win two dollars an in game reward e.g. defeat an enemy in a game and win a thermite bomb a multimedia reward e.g. defeat an enemy in a game and win two music downloads and or other value. The revealed item may have a value that is equivalent to the payout amount. For example the thermite bomb may ordinarily be purchased for two dollars. Alternatively the revealed item may have a value that is higher than the payout amount even though only the payout amount is used to acquire the item. For example two music downloads may ordinarily be purchased for more than two dollars but a payout in the amount of two dollars an amount of a payout may be used to pay for the two music downloads. In other words a two dollar payout may be decremented from the tracking account and the two dollar payout may be used to pay for the item.

When an item other than cash is revealed as a payout computer system may select the item to be revealed based on a random selection from among a pool of items a promotion related to the item e.g. virtual items that may be on sale for a given game a gameplay history of the user e.g. an item that the user has paid for or otherwise may be interested in a strategic item that may be useful based on current gameplay e.g. particular type of virtual weapon to be used against an opponent during a current battle a particular hint during a word game etc. a cosmetic item designed to distract an opponent e.g. a high pitched dancing marmoset that will cavort on screen during an opponent s turn to annoy the opponent a temporary action on a user s profile e.g. defacing a profile picture and or other information that may be used to select an item to offer as a reveal of a payout.

In an implementation computer system may provide a selectable list of items to claim as a payout including a cash payout and one or more of the items other than cash described in the foregoing examples. Computer system may select items to include in the selectable list as described with respect to selecting an item to reveal. For example the items on the selectable list may be included based on a random selection gameplay history strategic items based on current gameplay cosmetic items a temporary action and or other information. In this manner the user may select from among different payout options.

In the foregoing implementations and examples by providing items other than cash as a payout option computer system may promote those items for sale that may be accepted by the user in lieu of an actual cash payout. If a given item is accepted as a payout instead of cash computer system may deduct the cash value of the payout from the user s tracking account and retain the cash value as payment for the item as if the user had purchased the item with real currency .

In an implementation computer system may enhance a perceived value of a payout by providing one or more companion items. For example computer system may augment a two dollar payout with one or more companion items as a bonus. Such companion prizes may include without limitation virtual currency virtual items in game power ups new content sponsored partner prizes such as gift cards or discounts etc. The bonus may be communicated to the user before a virtual wager. For example computer system may invite the user to attempt an objective for a chance to win two dollars and an in game item or a multimedia download etc. . On the other hand the bonus may be made a surprise. For example computer system may invite the user to attempt an objective for a chance to win two dollars. Upon completion of the objective computer system may communicate a congratulatory message that the user has won two dollars and a bonus item. In an implementation the bonus may include a cash bonus that is awarded to the user as a surprise. In this implementation the user s tracking account must be able to cover the original payout and the bonus amount.

In an implementation computer system may provide a consolation item in the event that a user fails to complete an objective. The consolation item may include without limitation virtual currency virtual items in game power ups new content sponsored partner prizes such as gift cards or discounts etc.

Computer system may select a bonus item and or a consolation item as described with respect to selecting an item to reveal. For example the bonus item and or the consolation item may be selected based on a random selection gameplay history strategic items based on current gameplay cosmetic items a temporary action and or other information.

In an implementation computer system may determine a user s physical location and provide custom reveal opportunities and or reveals based on the user s physical location. Computer system may determine the physical location based on location information from a user s device e.g. GPS information a social check in and or other location techniques. The reveal opportunity and or reveal may be made before during and or after user interaction with interactive media.

Computer system may associate certain reveal locations e.g. a city a zip code a particular retailer etc. with a reveal trigger such that when a user enters is determined to be at and or leaves a reveal location as determined from the user s physical location a reveal opportunity may be presented to the user. For example computer system may invite the user to make a purchase at a nearby partner retailer for a chance to win a payout or be guaranteed to win a payout. In another example computer system may provide an opportunity to win or otherwise obtain a particular payout e.g. via cash item etc. when a user enters a particular city.

Likewise computer system may associate certain reveal locations e.g. a city a zip code a particular retailer etc. with a reveal item such that when a user enters is determined to be at and or leaves a reveal location as determined from the user s physical location a reveal item may be revealed to the user. For example computer system may reveal a particular in game item which may have a cash value of a payout that resulted from a real world wager when the user is at certain physical locations. Alternatively or additionally computer system may reveal certain cash amounts based on a user s location. For example a first location may be associated with a reveal of a first amount of cash winnings while a second location may be associated with a reveal of a second amount of cash winnings. In this manner computer system may provide reveals that are specific to a given location.

In an implementation an operator of computer system may monetize the interactive media and wagering platform described herein and maintain a system account to obtain the funds from various entities such as users third party interactive media provider s partner promotions provider s and or others.

In an implementation an operator of computer system may monetize the interactive media and wagering platform described herein by collecting fees related to the sale use of tokens. The fees may be fixed or be a percentage of a token s value. For example the operator of computer system may collect a certain percentage of value of a token when the token is purchased and or used by a user.

In an implementation an operator of computer system may monetize the interactive media and wagering platform described herein by collecting fees in relation to use of interactive media. For example an operator of computer system may collect all or a portion of in game item sales based on games developed in house and or by third party interactive media provider s . When a user purchases an in game item using a token which may be associated with a payout amount from a real world wager for example the operator of computer system may collect the entire purchase price e.g. if the game is developed in house or at least a fixed fee or a percentage of the purchase price from third party interactive media provider s such as a third party game publisher.

In an implementation an operator of computer system may monetize the interactive media and wagering platform described herein by collecting fees from a third party interactive media provider each time that a game or other interactive media provided by the third party interactive media provider is promoted to users. For example computer system may agree to incentivize a user to play a game from third party interactive media provider in exchange for a fee from third party interactive media provider .

In an implementation an operator of computer system may agree to provide larger or more frequent reveals for certain games than others in exchange for a fee from third party interactive media provider . For example a user who has a large unrevealed payout resulting from a real world wager may be steered to play a given game provided by third party interactive media provider . In another example computer system may provide reveals with a greater frequency in a given game than for other games. By doing so upon reveal of the large payout or frequent payouts to the user playing the given game the user may associate the payouts with the given game itself increasing the game s goodwill with respect to that user. In exchange for such favorable reveals directed to the game the operator of computer system may collect a fee from a publisher of the given game.

In an implementation an operator of computer system may agree to integrate promotions e.g. advertisements promoted content such as games videos etc. in exchange for a fee from partner promotions provider s . The fee may relate to providing the promotions using the interactive media platform. In an implementation the fee may relate to providing a reveal in relation to the promotion to incent the user to interact with the promotion. For example an operator of computer system may charge a fee to partner promotions provider s for inviting the user to click an advertisement for a reveal opportunity.

It should be appreciated that although the various instructions are illustrated in as being co located within a single computing device one or more instructions may be executed remotely from the other instructions. For example some computing devices of computer system may be programmed by some instructions while other computing devices may be programmed by other instructions as would be appreciated. Furthermore the various instructions described herein are exemplary only. Other configurations and numbers of instructions may be used so long as the processor s are programmed to perform the functions described herein.

Other monetization methods may be used as well. Furthermore for each monetization technique computer system may be programmed e.g. by account manager instructions to keep track of credits due to the operator of computer system transfer funds from a payor related to the monetization methods and or perform other functions related to monetizing the interactive media and wagering platform provided by computer system .

Certain implementations described herein relate to gaming including online gambling. Certain embodiments described herein enable betting to be performed by a user with respect to one or more events e.g. wherein the betting results are revealed to the user optionally in a time delayed manner based at least in part on the user s game play with respect to an interactive game e.g. an online interactive electronic game . By way of example and not limitation the event may be a sporting event a lottery stock market activity a political race or other form of risk resolution that provides a return against an amount wagered. The interactive game by way of example and not limitation may involve physical coordination social interaction problem solving or another activity unrelated to the underlying event being wagered on. Further the actual selection of events e.g. races and competitors stocks etc. to wager on may optionally be automatically selected without requiring the user to perform manual selections. Certain embodiments thereby enable new games to be synthesized from existing games and wagerable events such as a sporting event . Thus fun and exciting interactive games may be provided with cash payouts funded by results from wagers on one or more forms of gambling.

The description of the functionality provided by the different instructions described herein is for illustrative purposes and is not intended to be limiting as any of instructions may provide more or less functionality than is described. For example one or more of the instructions may be eliminated and some or all of its functionality may be provided by other ones of the instructions. As another example processor s may be programmed by one or more additional instructions that may perform some or all of the functionality attributed herein to one of the instructions.

The various instructions described herein may be stored in a storage device which may comprise random access memory RAM read only memory ROM and or other memory. The storage device may store the computer program instructions e.g. the aforementioned instructions to be executed by processor s as well as data that may be manipulated by processor s . The storage device may comprise floppy disks hard disks optical disks tapes or other storage media for storing computer executable instructions and or data.

The various components illustrated in may be coupled to at least one other component via a network which may include any one or more of for instance the Internet an intranet a PAN Personal Area Network a LAN Local Area Network a WAN Wide Area Network a SAN Storage Area Network a MAN Metropolitan Area Network a wireless network a cellular communications network a Public Switched Telephone Network and or other network. In and other drawing Figures different numbers of entities than depicted may be used. Furthermore according to various implementations the components described herein may be implemented in hardware and or software that configure hardware.

The various databases described herein may be include or interface to for example an Oracle relational database sold commercially by Oracle Corporation. Other databases such as Informix DB2 Database or other data storage including file based e.g. comma or tab separated files or query formats platforms or resources such as OLAP On Line Analytical Processing SQL Structured Query Language a SAN storage area network Microsoft Access MySQL PostgreSQL HSpace Apache Cassandra MongoDB Apache CouchDB or others may also be used incorporated or accessed. The database may comprise one or more such databases that reside in one or more physical devices and in one or more physical locations. The database may store a plurality of types of data and or files and associated data or file descriptions administrative information or any other data. The database s may be stored in storage device and or other storage that is accessible to computer system .

In an operation enrollment instructions may enroll a user to use the computer system. For example the user may use user device to provide user information that is used and stored by the computer system to facilitate the functions described herein. Once enrolled a user profile and user account may be established for the user. The user profile may include risk tolerance information that indicates a level of risk that the user is willing to accept when placing real world wagers. The user account may include one or more user accounts that indicate a value of tokens real currency items etc. that the user may use.

In an operation account manager instructions may fund a user account based on payment information provided by the user. For example a user may add an amount of real currency e.g. cause funds to be transferred from a payment account to a user account which may be used to purchase one or more tokens. In an operation account manager instructions may update the user account to indicate the added real currency and or the purchased token such that either or both are available for use to access one or more of the functions provided by the computer system.

In an operation wager U I instructions may receive a user specified wager specification that includes parameters to place a real world wager the user would like to make. The wager specification may include an event an outcome an amount to wager and or other information used to place one or more real world wagers.

In an operation wager processing instructions may receive a wager trigger which causes a wager to be placed. The wager trigger may include a token purchase illustrated as operation A a user initiation through wager U I instructions illustrated as operation B a user interaction with interactive media interface not illustrated in and or other initiation.

In an operation wager processing instructions may obtain a user profile associated with the user. The user profile may indicate a risk tolerance associated with the user. In an operation wager processing instructions may determine and place a wager with wagering system s . For example wager processing instructions may determine a number of wagers to place an event on which to place the real world wager an outcome of the event an amount of the real world wager and or other parameter of the real world wager based on the user profile. Alternatively or additionally wager processing instructions may use the real world wager specification specified by the user if any . In an operation wager processing instructions may update the user account based on the amount of the real world wager.

In an operation an outcome of the real world wager may be received. For example wager processing instructions may receive the outcome from wagering system s and or other source of the outcome of the event on which the wager was placed . In an operation wager processing instructions may update the user account based on the outcome. For example a payout may be credited to a user account.

In an operation wager processing instructions may provide an indication of the outcome of the real world wager to wager outcome reveal instructions . In an operation wager outcome reveal instructions may obtain one or more reveal rules that specify when and or how the outcome should be revealed to the user. For example the one or more reveal rules may specify a parameter that indicates a timing of the reveal what type and or particular interactive media should be used to reveal the outcome and or other parameter that specifies a reveal of the outcome.

In an operation wager outcome reveal instructions may determine a timing and or interactive media interface to reveal the real world wager outcome. The timing and or interactive media interface may be determined based on the one or more reveal rules.

In an operation wager outcome reveal instructions may generate and provide interactive media interface which may include an interface for an interactive game video and or other interactive media content. Interactive media interface may reveal the outcome of the real world wager. For example interactive media interface may present an interactive media objective associated with the outcome of the real world wager. In a particular example the interactive media objective may include an in game objective such as without limitation hitting a target completing a game level watching a video for a predetermined length of time and or other objective.

In an implementation upon successful completion of the objective a payout of the real world wager may be revealed such that the user is given the impression that the payout resulted from achieving the interactive media objective when in fact the payout resulted from the outcome of the real world wager which was determined prior to the successful completion of the objective.

In an implementation if the real world wager resulted in a loss wager outcome reveal instructions may not provide any interactive media interface to the user. In another implementation wager outcome reveal instructions may provide an interactive media interface that provides an objective that is not achievable e.g. cannot be successfully completed by the user which may give the user an impression that the loss resulted from the failure to achieve the objective when in fact the loss resulted from the outcome of the real world wager which was determined prior to the failure by the user to complete the objective .

In an operation a real world wager may be initiated. The real world wager may be initiated based on a token purchase a user interaction in an interactive media interface a direct initiation by the user and or other wager trigger that can cause the real world wager to be initiated. In an operation responsive to the wager initiation computer system may place a real world wager with wagering system s . In an operation an outcome of the real world wager may be obtained by computer system . In an operation a user account associated with the user may be updated based on the outcome. For example a tracking account associated with the user may be incremented by the payout amount.

In an operation a user may request from user device interactive media from a third party interactive media provider . Responsive to the request in an operation third party interactive media provider may make an API call to third party interactive media API requesting a reveal specification. The API call may include user credentials e.g. a username and password used to authenticate the user reveal parameters specified by third party interactive media provider and or other information. The reveal parameters may specify a limit on a payout amount to be revealed. For example a twenty five cent slot machine game may not provide large wins and therefore may place a limit on the amount of payout that it can reveal.

Other game specific characteristics such as a requested denomination e.g. a particular game may wish to provide payouts in particular denominations or other items of value a level of difficulty an average length of gameplay whether the game is online or offline enabled etc. may be used to specify the reveal as well which may be provided in the reveal parameters. For example a particular game may wish to provide payouts using particular denominations of real or virtual currency. Computer system may convert a cash value of the payout to the requested denomination such that any payout revealed by the particular game is made in the requested denomination. In another example longer duration games may be associated with larger potential payout reveals. In an operation third party interactive media provider may process the API call and request a reveal specification from computer system .

In an operation computer system may obtain a reveal specification which may take into account any reveal parameters that indicates how to reveal the outcome of the real world wager. For example the reveal specification may indicate when the reveal may occur e.g. a time by which the reveal must occur before expiring how the reveal may occur e.g. in a single event or over multiple events an amount of the reveal e.g. a real currency value of the reveal any bonus reveal that may be provided e.g. a bonus virtual item that accompanies the reveal a level of difficulty of an objective used to make the reveal e.g. some reveals may require a more difficult to achieve objective than other reveals and or other parameters that specify how and or when the reveal may occur.

In operations and the reveal specification may be communicated to third party interactive media provider through third party interactive media API . In an operation the outcome of the real world wager may be revealed to the user based on the reveal specification. In an implementation multiple reveal specifications may be requested throughout gameplay not illustrated in .

Third party interactive media provider may use its own game mechanics to reveal the outcome according to the reveal specification. For example a shooting game may provide an objective to hit a target that if hit by the user causes the reveal to occur as if the outcome of the real world wager resulted from successful hit even though the outcome of the real world wager was predefined . If not hit by the user the reveal may not occur and may be saved for another reveal opportunity either within the shooting game and or other interactive media. In another example a puzzle game may provide an objective to complete at least a portion of a puzzle. In another example a media streaming service may provide a video that upon viewing by the user for at least some period of time causes the reveal to occur. Other examples using different types of interactive media may be used as well leveraging different types of game mechanics and other interactive media formats to potentially provide reveals of outcomes of real world wagers to users.

In an implementation user device which renders the game or other interactive media may pre cache the reveal specification. A given reveal specification may be pre cached before the game starts or after the game starts. In this manner offline gameplay may be enabled where once pre cached at user device reveals may occur during offline gameplay. When the user device returns online any reveals that occurred may be reported to computer system .

In an implementation the reveal specification may specify whether a reveal can be associated with an objective that is achievable or has a predetermined outcome. For example viewing a video may be achievable and may not be suitable for an objective that is predetermined to fail.

Although described with respect to third party interactive media API and third party interactive media provider the processing operations described with respect to is applicable in other contexts as well. For example a game may execute on user device whether or not third party interactive media provider is involved . The game may request a reveal specification from computer system along with reveal parameters if applicable and pre cache the reveal specification before or during gameplay. The game may interface with computer system using third party interactive media API or an equivalent API that can interface with computer system .

In an operation a wager initiation may be processed. The wager initiation may include a token purchase a user interaction with interactive media a user specified wager specification and or other way to initiate a real world wager.

In an operation an outcome of the real world wager may be obtained. The outcome may include a payout e.g. a win a loss or a draw.

In an operation a timing and or particular interactive media to reveal the outcome may be determined. For example payouts may use particular types of interactive media while losses may use other types of interactive media.

In an operation a wager trigger may be processed. In an operation a real world wager may be placed in response to the wager trigger. For example and without limitation a real world wager on a horse race may be placed. In an operation a determination of whether the outcome of the wager has been decided may be made. For example a determination of whether the result of the horse race has been decided may be made.

In an operation if the outcome has not been decided process may wait for a period of time for the outcome to be decided. In an implementation the period of time may be predefined.

In an operation a determination of whether the outcome was a loss or a draw may be determined. In an operation if the outcome was a loss or a draw no interactive media may be provided to the user that reveals the outcome. In another implementation not illustrated in interactive media that includes an objective that is not achievable may be provided to the user.

In an operation if the outcome was not a loss or a draw e.g. includes a payout interactive media may be identified and provided to the user. For example a suitable game video etc. may be identified that can be used as a medium for which to reveal the outcome of the real world wager such that it appears to the user that interaction with the medium by the user resulted in the payout even though the payout was determined before the user interaction.

In an operation an interactive media objective that is achievable may be presented to the user. The objective may be presented to the user explicitly e.g. a communication may be provided to the user defeat a game boss and receive a reward where the reward include the outcome of the real world wager or may appear to the user to occur during the course of interaction with the interactive media e.g. a user may defeat the game boss and be provided with the reward without any prior notification that doing so would result in the reward .

In an operation an indication of a user interaction that attempts to satisfy the objective may be received. In an operation a determination of whether the user interaction satisfies the objective may be made. If the objective is satisfied in an operation the outcome of the real world wager may be revealed to the user such that the outcome appears to have resulted from successful completion of the objective. On the other hand if the objective is not satisfied in an operation the outcome may not be revealed and the user may or may not be notified of such failure . The outcome may be retained for a later reveal opportunity either in the current interactive media and or other interactive media that is provided to the user.

In an operation a real world wager opportunity may be presented to a user through interactive media. The real world wager opportunity may be associated with the start of interactive media and or during interactive media. For example a user may be presented with an opportunity to start playing a game for a particular value of one or more tokens start viewing a video for the particular value and or start other types of interactive media. Alternatively or additionally the user may be presented with an in game opportunity such as purchase a particular item for a particular value of one or more tokens an opportunity to continue watching a video for the particular value and or otherwise interact with the interactive media.

Whichever implementation is used to present a real world wager opportunity a user interaction that triggers a real world wager may be obtained in an operation . For example the user may indicate a willingness to start the game for the particular value of one or more tokens purchase an in game item etc.

In an operation responsive to the wager trigger from operation a real world wager may be placed. In an operation a determination of whether the outcome of the real world wager has been decided may be determined. If the outcome has not been decided process may wait for the outcome and continue provided the interactive media. For example the game may be initiated and the user may be allowed to play the game until the outcome is decided. In other implementations not illustrated in the start of the game or other interactive media or in game purchase or other user interaction may be delayed until the outcome of the real world wager has been decided. In an operation if the outcome of the real world wager has been decided a determination of whether the outcome was a loss or a draw may be made.

In an operation if the outcome was a loss or a draw an interactive media objective that is not achievable e.g. predetermined to result in failure or a draw may be presented to the user. For example a target that cannot be hit may be presented to the user. In another implementation not illustrated in an interactive media objective may not be presented to the user if the outcome was a loss or a draw.

In an operation a user interaction that attempts to satisfy the interactive media objective that is not achievable may be received. For example a user attempt to hit the target may be received. In an operation the failure may be indicated to the user such that the loss draw resulting from the real world wager appears to result from the failure to satisfy the objective.

Referring back to operation if the outcome was not a loss or a draw process may proceed to operation illustrated in which illustrates another portion of a flow diagram for process of revealing outcomes of real world wagers triggered by user interactions with interactive media according to an implementation of the invention.

Referring to in operation an interactive media objective may be presented to the user that is achievable. The objective may be presented to the user explicitly e.g. a communication may be provided to the user defeat a game boss and receive a reward where the reward include the outcome of the real world wager or may appear to the user to occur during the course of interaction with the interactive media e.g. a user may defeat the game boss and be provided with the reward without any prior notification that doing so would result in the reward .

In an operation an indication of a user interaction that attempts to satisfy the objective may be received. In an operation a determination of whether the user interaction satisfies the objective may be made. If the objective is satisfied in an operation the outcome of the real world wager may be revealed to the user such that the outcome appears to have resulted from successful completion of the objective. On the other hand if the objective is not satisfied in an operation the outcome may not be revealed and the user may or may not be notified of such failure . The outcome may be retained for a later reveal opportunity either in the current interactive media and or other interactive media that is provided to the user.

For example an input when selected e.g. clicked or otherwise interacted with may cause an account management interface to be provided as illustrated in .

An input when selected may cause a real world wager interface to be provided as illustrated in . The real world wager interface may allow the user to directly place real world wagers via computer system .

An input when selected may cause a game selection interface to be provided as illustrated in . The game selection interface allows the user to select games to play. Computer system may reveal an outcome of a real world wager through the selected games.

An input when selected may cause a video selection interface to be provided not illustrated in the figures . The video selection interface allows the user to select videos to watch. Computer system may reveal an outcome of a real world wager through the selected videos.

An input when selected may cause other interfaces that allows selection of other interactive media e.g. music photos etc. to be provided or other actions to be performed. Computer system may reveal an outcome of a real world wager through the other interactive media.

User interface may be used to purchase tokens. In an implementation as illustrated different tokens may correspond to different denominations of cash value. The user may specify which token and a number of the tokens to purchase. The purchase of a given token may cause a real world wager in the amount of the value of the given token to be placed which may cause the cash value of the given token to be depleted to pre pay for the real world wager . In an implementation the given token may be used to interact with interactive media e.g. play a game . If so used the outcome of the real world wager may be revealed through the interactive media and or through other interactive media .

Alternatively or additionally different tokens may have other characteristics e.g. different levels of risk as described herein . The user may purchase different tokens based on their individual characteristics.

In an implementation computer system may obtain and present wager event information not illustrated in . The wager event information may include without limitation a start of the event e.g. date and or time that the wager event will take place competitors in the wager event e.g. horses teams etc. if applicable odds information related to the wager event e.g. chances of winning point spread information payouts etc. and or other information. The wager event information may be obtained from wagering system s and or other source of information.

At least some of the selectable games may have a fee to play or be free to play. At least some of the games may be a promotional reward associated with them which may be indicated to the user. For example GAME 5 may be associated with a promotion that incents the user to play the game. In an implementation the incentive may be revealed in addition to a reveal of an outcome of a real world wager. For example the incentive may augment the reveal of the outcome of the real world wager. In another implementation the incentive may appear to be an additional incentive when in fact the incentive is merely a reveal of the outcome of the real world wager. In other words the incentive does not augment the reveal of the outcome of the real world wager.

User interface may be provided by computer system and or at least some of the aspects of user interface may be used in conventional online application stores such as various mobile application stores used to provide game content to mobile devices.

For example computer system may allocate a ten dollar payout resulting from a real world wager that has already occurred prior to the user interactions to be potentially revealed by the game played using game interface . Computer system may determine the allocated payout amount based on various factors described herein. In an implementation for example the allocated payout amount may be based on a token used to play the game. For instance if a particular two dollar token was used to play the game any payout that is associated with that particular two dollar token may be used as the allocated payout amount.

The game may reveal none a portion or all of the allocated payout amount depending on an in game action. Typically the game may determine the particular in game actions that trigger reveals and how much each reveal should of the allocated potential reveal amount . Alternatively or additionally computer system may indicate in game actions that should trigger reveals.

The game may report back to computer system the amount of the payout that was revealed if any so that computer system may update relevant accounts associated with the user that played the game.

For example in the illustrated slot machine game the amount of the payout that is revealed may be based on a probability of an occurrence of a combination of symbols e.g. where each symbol may have its own probability of being randomly selected based on a randomly generated number . Less probable combinations may be associated with higher payouts that are revealed. For instance three cherry symbols may result in a maximum revealed payout e.g. reveal the entire allocated payout amount three bell symbols may result in half of the allocated payout amount being revealed while zero matching symbols may result in zero payout being revealed.

By way of illustration and not limitation an operation of gameplay for a game played using user interface will be described. The general principles of this example may be applied to skill based games as well. As previously described computer system may allocate a payout amount that may be potentially revealed by the game. In an implementation the game may provide an indication of a allocated payout that it should receive. For example a game may not provide large payouts and therefore may request a maximum payout allocation. In this manner the game may provide input used to determine the allocated payout amount. The game and or the computer system may determine various game events that trigger a reveal of at least a portion of the allocated payout amount that may be revealed.

The user may use a particular five dollar token to play the game. The five dollar token may be associated with an outcome of a real world wager. The allocated payout amount may be based on the outcome e.g. the allocated payout amount may be fifty dollars if the payout associated with the five dollar token is fifty dollars or the allocated payout amount may be zero dollars if the payout associated with the five dollar token is zero dollars this may occur when the real world wager lost .

Based on gameplay the user may potentially appear to win up to the allocated payout amount e.g. fifty dollars . Thus the user may be given the impression that gameplay results in winning a revealed amount when in fact the revealed amount resulted from a payout of a real world wager in which the outcome has already occurred. In an implementation the outcome occurs before gameplay even starts. In an implementation the outcome occurs during gameplay in which case apparent potential wins will not occur until the outcome occurs .

In the illustrated slot machine game the game may use the five dollar token used to play the game to provide a number of virtual pulls for a chance to win. For example if each pull costs one half dollar then the user may have a possibility of making ten pulls using the five dollar token. If none of the ten pulls results in a win which may be randomly determined then none of the allocated payout amount will be revealed and the game will communicate this to computer system . On the other hand if at least some of the pulls results in a win all or a portion of the allocated payout amount will be revealed. For example if a ten dollar win results from the first pull the user may be given the impression that the five dollar token may now be worth fifteen dollars not accounting for the original half dollar fee for the first pull for illustrative purposes . The user may then continue gameplay using a number of pulls equivalent for the fifteen dollars e.g. thirty pulls . If the user continues gameplay and does not win again then the ten dollar reveal will be unrevealed and a zero reveal will be communicated to computer system . On the other hand if the user does not attempt more pulls after the ten dollar win the game will communicate the ten dollar reveal to computer system which may update its records to indicate the ten dollar reveal occurred and or indicate that forty dollars remains to be revealed.

Although illustrated as web based interfaces e.g. websites rendered on a browser application the various user interfaces described herein e.g. illustrated by may include without limitation the web based interface an electronic mail interface a mobile application interface including smartphones and tablets one or more application programming interfaces a Smart TV interface a console game interface a virtual reality interface a GAMESTICK interface and or other interfaces that may be pulled by users and or pushed to users. As would be appreciated the various user interfaces may be communicably coupled to one or more components illustrated in e.g. computer system either directly and or through intermediaries. As such inputs selections and or other interactions with the user interfaces may cause one or more functions to be performed by one or more components illustrated in responsive to the interactions with the user interfaces. Furthermore the various graphical objects illustrated in the user interfaces are for illustration and not limitation. Other configurations numbers appearance and or other characteristics of the graphical objects may be changed according to particular needs e.g. design aesthetics .

Other implementations uses and advantages of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. The specification should be considered exemplary only and the scope of the invention is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims.

