---

title: Mobile media communications system
abstract: A media communications system enabling mobile and desktop devices to communicate with websites relevant to a query that is shallow parsed, associated to predetermined categories, and regenerated as a conflated query array that includes extracted entities, associated categories, a location, and a geo-limit parameter. The media communications system further enables real-time messaging between the mobile and desktop devices and the websites, as well as generation of well-formed websites, media, and multimedia, with pre-rendered embedded content, and enables to concurrently and automatically demographically and geographically distributed push notifications to the websites and devices, and embeds relevancy-amplified, geotargeted media and multimedia communications, which media are selected by real-time machine-learned, high-probability consumer interest weighting and relevancy functions that are continuously updated in response to monitored consumer actions. The system further enables geographically regional and inter-regional systems management to enable automated replication and regional and demographic testing of the geotargeted and relevant communications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09571969&OS=09571969&RS=09571969
owner: Deep Rock Ventures, Inc.
number: 09571969
owner_city: Thousand Oaks
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160701
---
This application is a divisional of co owned prior filed application entitled Mobile Media Communication System of Frederick Rice et al. Ser. No. 15 003 814 filed 22 Jan. 2016 granted on 16 Aug. 2016 as U.S. Pat. No. 9 420 422 which is a continuation in part of co pending co owned prior filed applications entitled Mobile Media Communication System of Frederick Rice et al. Ser. No. 14 527 777 filed 30 Oct. 2014 granted on 15 Mar. 2016 as U.S. Pat. No. 9 288 617 and Ser. No. 14 995 206 filed 14 Jan. 2016 all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The present disclosure describes systems and methods for automated relevancy weighted pushed media and multimedia distribution and communications for mobile and static electronic communications devices such as mobile phones tablets laptops portable electronic devices automotive communications devices aircraft on board entertainment systems billboard and marquee systems desktop computers and related devices systems and electronics.

Despite much progress in recent decades problems persist in the mobile device field of technology with respect to enabling efficient predictable and responsive communications of various types of media to unmoving or static devices and moving and dynamic mobile devices. Challenges presently exist with current systems and methods available for managing large mobile device communications networks for enabling updated media to be created and disseminated for preventing dissemination of undesired media communications and for enabling more predictable and desirable communication of preferred media communications.

Such preferred media communications have long been sought by both those creating new and interesting media and by those seeking notification of the availability of such new media. However present day systems and methods fall short in enabling these capabilities and instead often rely upon seemingly and apparently random dissemination of ineffective unwanted and irrelevant media communications. In fact most mobile and static devices are often crammed and inundated with media communications that are not relevant to any particular subject matter or category of data or any particular geographic area or region. Further such unwanted media communications are often sourced from suspicious and shadowy online predators who are seeking only to surreptitiously capture personal information from unprotected mobile or static devices.

Many existing mobile device communication methods and systems purport to enable sophisticated and targeted media communications to specifically identified demographic and geographic mobile and static devices or entities. However most such systems and methods fail to achieve their advertised capabilities and are instead limited to generating revenue streams as a function of mass cramming of untargeted repetitive media communications to unsuspecting mobile and static devices. Whether such mass cramming is sourced from putatively reputable entities or less savory purveyors recipient mobile and static devices and their users rarely benefit.

Despite decades of progress in the mobile communications management field vast numbers of legitimate businesses remain often unwilling to try to use them and are therefore unable to communicate with mobile and static devices in any effective way. This is primarily because so many have found the existing systems to be entirely ineffective extraordinarily expensive and far too unreliable unprofitable and time consuming to employ. Moreover anecdotal experiences demonstrate that past attempts have been eclipsed by large online entities that unfairly control and consume nearly all available bandwidth for such media communications.

Other technical problems that persist in the management of mobile communications systems have arisen from the need for mobile devices to use new tools to block unwanted unpredictable and sometimes malicious media content from being communicated to mobile devices from otherwise legitimate sources. As an example many mobile devices have been inundated with seemingly random media content when such devices are being used to communicate with other devices and resources across the internet and World Wide Web.

As a result of the deluge of such undesirable media mobile devices as well as static devices have adopted new technology that prevents such undesirable media from being communicated to the mobile devices. Unfortunately however this new blocking technology cannot distinguish important or otherwise desirable media from the unwanted or malicious media. In turn the mobile devices are then impaired in that they cannot receive possibly needed media and programming code bundled with that media in bundled data or data streams and thus the mobile or static devices lose or suffer from degradation of needed functionality.

What continues to be needed but otherwise unavailable is a system that enables more precise media communications with mobile and static communications devices and electronics. The mobile internet and world wide web communications industry would be favorably disrupted and benefit tremendously from new systems and methods that enable mobile system communications with targeted media that can be directed as a function of geographic location as well as a measure of media relevancy to the targeted mobile devices.

The field of mobile communications would very likely be receptive to new capabilities that enable mobile communication of media having amplified relevancy measures that take advantage of predetermined preferences which might ideally include categories of interest and even favorite items of interest to individually configured mobile devices and electronics. Such technical improvements would enable mobile static and other electronic devices to avoid impaired or degraded operational capabilities.

Enabling unimpaired and optimized media communications to such devices would also ensure that needed programming code and related information could reach these devices in an efficient and timely way because the mobile devices could avoid having to use the media blocking technologies. More preferably even if such blocking technologies remain the long sought improvements should create new capabilities and technologies that enable important targeted and more precise media communications and code and related information bundled into the media communication data streams to bypass or avoid the blocking technologies and reach the mobile and other electronic devices.

A need also continues to persist to enable information requests messages and or queries to be communicated parsed and associated with subject matter categories of interest that have a high probability of being relevant to the original request query and or message. This capability should enable the mobile and static devices to identify and retrieve needed information and to receive desired important and related media communications that can be obtained despite media blocking technologies. It is further desired to enable the capability for website and network site operators to be notified when such queries may relate to the subject matter relevant to them and to generate and receive communications and media in reply and relevant to the queries. The previously described geotargeting and amplified relevancy capabilities should also be compatible for use in generating and receiving such communications and media.

An improved system and method for mobile communications management includes a directory search monitor that is configured to receive one or more of a static entity request which contains at least a static location and a dynamic entity request having at least a dynamic location. These requests may include many forms and data structures and may also be queries and messages. A mobile entity monitor is also included and coupled to and communicates with the directory search monitor and other system components.

The mobile entity monitor is configured to receive a mobile entity request that has at least a temporal mobile location which includes at least time and location data. The static dynamic and temporal mobile locations each also may include with the location data embedded geographic location coordinates or other geographic location data. The mobile entity monitor may also be configured to receive predetermined categories of interest and one or more favorite categories or websites in connection with as part of and or independently from receiving the temporal mobile location and related time and location data.

The system and method also includes a media server that communicates with the directory search and mobile entity monitors and the other components and elements of the methods and system. The media server is configured to receive at least one of the dynamic static and mobile entity requests and to communicate these static dynamic and mobile request with location data to other components of the system and method.

Among other capabilities the media server receives stores and retrieves a large variety of continuously updated geotargeted media to establish a plurality of different geotargeted media. Such geotargeted media can include images graphics text location and or region targeting information multimedia information such as video and audio among other types of data. The media server retrieves and communicates such media from the plurality and composites and or precisely positions and arranges one or more of the plurality of media into combination data streams or data bundles.

The media is also configured to receive geotargeted media having a media push tag that can be included in metadata with the geotargeted media or which can be encoded or otherwise embedded as part of the geotargeted media data and information. The push tag preferably includes a dated time limit and a discrete impression count. The dated time limit can be used by the media server to specify a time period during which the geotargeted media can be communicated and where at times outside the time period the geotargeted media can be deemed expired. The impression count can be used by the media server to only communicate the geotargeted media a certain number of times where after it is deemed exhausted.

The data bundles communicated by the media server embed among other information the plurality of different geotargeted media into the data stream or data bundles so that the media includes among other data attributes of style format position encoding and similar types of information in a pre rendered format or arrangement before communicating the data bundle as a response.

In other aspects of this capability the media server when creating the data streams and data bundles separately positions each media item into pre defined positional zones about a canvas in predetermined arrangements with the at least one network site. The canvas establishes a work space wherein different formats and types of information can be placed positioned overlaid and dynamically movable with respect to the canvas arrangement and configuration and other data incorporated into the data bundles and streams.

The media server is also configured to receive and or retrieve at least one network site from a host network server to generate the one or more of the composited data bundles that embed the geotargeted media along with the at least one network site. Once embedded or packaged into the data bundles in a pre rendered web page or similar format the media server is adapted to communicate the one or more composited data bundles as responses to the requests queries and or messages. The media server is also preferably configured to optionally communicate the composited data bundles directly to at least one of the directory search and mobile entity monitors and or other elements and components of the system and method.

A geocoder is also included in the method and system and may be coupled to a part of and or in communication with the media server or other system components. Preferably among other capabilities the geocoder is configured to receive a geographic location grid identifier coordinates or other type of geographic location information in any of many possible forms which can also include street addresses zip codes and place names such as cities towns neighborhoods boroughs counties that can be converted to a geographic location and approximate coordinate. In complementary aspects the geocoder is also customized to convert any received locations for example the static dynamic and temporal mobile locations from one type or format of geographic location data or coordinates to another.

The geocoder is further configured to upon receipt generate for each dynamic static and temporal mobile location a geozone designator which may more preferably be at least one of respective static dynamic mobile and temporal mobile geozone designators. The geocoder incorporates the capability to use the received locations and the respectively generated geozone designator to generate a grid of geozones of nearby geographic locations. More specifically the geocoder uses the received locations and generated designators to generate a grid of equal area isometric and adjacently arranged and positioned geozones each having respectively assigned geozone designators.

The geocoder generated grid is arranged to include a centrally positioned geozone that includes the received location which has the generated geozone designator. In other words each geozone of the generated grid is assigned a calculated respective unique geozone designator which for the received location s is the grid central or centrally positioned geozone of the received location with its corresponding geozone designator.

It is also preferred that the geocoder generate the equal area geozone grids to have isometric predetermined polygonal and or rectilinear dimensions that circumscribe and define the area of each resulting polygon or geozone. The media server is also configured to receive retrieve and communicate the geotargeted media and network site keys that are proximate or nearby some predetermined distance to the received locations.

Both the geotargeted media and the network site keys are selected and retrieved if they have location data that establishes proximity within a preferred established or predetermined proximity range to the received static dynamic and temporal mobile locations. Such proximity or geographic relevance is established if the location data of the network site keys and or the geotargeted media have a geozone or geographic identifier that equals the geozone or geographic designator of the static dynamic and temporal mobile locations of any of the geozones of the generated grid which includes the received location s .

Preferably the location data of the network site keys and or the geotargeted media is communicated to the geocoder which generates the geographic or geozone identifier and then rapidly compares it with geographic or geozone designators of the static dynamic and temporal mobile locations of the generated geozones of the grid. Once such geotargeted media and network site keys are retrieved after and responsive to the rapid comparison those media and keys having the established preferred or predetermined proximity or proximity range are communicated by the media server in a response to the requests queries and or messages.

In a summarized example the received static dynamic and or temporal mobile locations are communicated to the geocoder which respectively computes or generates the grid of geozones each having geozone or geographic designators. The locations for the geotargeted media and network sites keys are also communicated to the geocoder which generates the media site key geozone identifiers. The geocoder then compares the identifiers media and network sites to the designators static dynamic temporal mobile locations and ascertains proximity distance range or range of proximities between the identifiers and designators.

The media server also contemplates configurations that generate store retrieve communicate and calculate a weighting for the geotargeted media and the network site keys and related information which enables various media and retrieved network sites to be compared to others for purposes of establishing relevancy of the media. The relevancy determination is made by comparing aspects of the media and network sites to the received locations categories and other information received by the media server.

In contrast and in other exemplary configurations the weighting calculation may also be configured to prevent communication of unwanted or otherwise prohibited geotargeted media. For example it may be desired that geotargeted media of certain types categories and having certain locations should not be communicated in response to certain requests queries and or messages. For a specifically requested network site the media server may be configured whereby geotargeted media is selected from a group of geotargeted media such that each media item has a media category identifier that is not equal to the category identifier of the network site.

The systems and methods also contemplate similar capabilities wherein categories that are defined to be relevant to one another can be identified by the media server as the weighting is calculated. The media server enables these aspects by incorporating a relevancy cross table that maps each individual category in a discrete array to all other categories using a category relevancy parameter. The category relevancy parameter can be zero when two individual categories are deemed to irrelevant to one another and can be higher than zero depending upon the predetermined degree of relevance there between.

Where the mapping or scan results in no matches or similarities the calculated weighting is lower. Where the scan or mapping finds matches or similarities the calculated weighting is higher. When the calculated weighting is higher than or exceeds a weighting threshold the geotargeted media and or network site key is communicated by the media server.

The system and method also further incorporates a host network server that is coupled to and in communication with the media server the directory search and mobile entity monitors and other elements of the system and methods. The host network server receives normalizes parses stores retrieves and communicates network site information and is configured among many various capabilities to generate unique network site keys and to also communicate to and receive from the media server the geotargeted media and the network site keys.

The host network server is further configured to retrieve the network site data to combine with the media push tags received from the media server as is described elsewhere herein which have the noted time limit and impression count. The media server is configured to communicate the media push tags directly to the host network server or any of the other components of the system and method.

In this exemplary arrangement the media server is also adapted to retrieve and to generate the above described weighting for the geotargeted media by also calculating the relevancy parameter using an elapsed time within the time limit and expended impression count from the impression count. In this way the media server can retrieve and communicate geotargeted media in response to requests queries and or message more often when there are unexhausted impression counts and a limited and unexpired amount of time left in the time limit to expend those impression counts.

The host network server received network site information also may include location data and coordinates category data and identifiers and other types of identifiers and information related to the network site information. The network site keys are initially generated by the host network server and or its components and subsystems and the keys are used to rapidly look up network site information from a network site repository.

The host network server uses the keys to rapidly retrieve from the network site repository at least one network site that matches at least one of the network keys. With the retrieved at least one network site the host network server like the media server can generate one or more composited data bundles or data streams embedding the geotargeted media with the at least one network site and with any other text and multimedia and can include messages into a pre rendered webpage or similar format or arrangement or configuration.

Once the host network server combines or composites the disparate data into one or more data bundles the host network server is also configured to communicate the one or more composited data bundles as direct responses and or reply messages to the requests queries and or messages. The host network server is further adapted to communicate the composited data bundles directly to at least one of the media server directory search mobile entity monitors and other components of the system and method.

To enable further aspects of the systems and methods the host network server enables communication of the network site keys to the media server with the location data. The media server is also adapted to receive the keys and location data and to enable or communicate with the geocoder to convert the respective locations into geozone identifiers. The media server is also capable of using the geozone identifiers in searches and comparisons and can store for later retrieval or communication the network site keys with the location data.

The method and system also includes the host network server further including a network site key and value storage system that establishes unique network site keys mapped to each of a plurality of hosted network sites. The host network server key and value storage system is adapted so that the values may contain a plurality of data types and so that the stored key and values data may be stored in various efficient ways that ensure optimized response speed data retention durability and replication and backup and efficiently optimized storage and longer term data replication.

More preferably the host network server key and value storage system is configured to avoid the impediments of legacy database and indexing systems. Preferably the host network server is configured to be optimized for fast response times while maintaining data durability using snap shotting or semi persistent storage techniques which can employ data sharding and other optimization techniques if desired for the various possible storage and retrieval configurations.

In other optionally preferred configurations the key value storage system can be adapted wherein the host network server is configured to generate unique network site data keys uniquely using various methods to avoid generated key collisions including hashing which are often also referred to as hash functions codes and sums. In certain alternative or preferred arrangements it may be more appropriate to enable the quick key lookup capabilities by generating unique keys using perfect hash functions.

In some aspects the systems and methods contemplate generating the keys for the key value pairs using network site information addresses such as internet and web style uniform resource locaters URLs or client side URLs cURLs which may contain the information needed to uniquely rapidly and easily identify a network site and detailed or specific elements thereof during configuration operation and use of the system and methods.

In still other respects the host network server is configured to receive or retrieve the network site data with a category data identifier and to receive with the static dynamic and temporal mobile requests queries and or messages and respective static dynamic and mobile predetermined category and favorite preferences. These predetermined category and favorite preferences may be communicated to the media server for use in calculating the weightings and relevancy parameters.

In these additionally aspects of the host network server configurations the media server is further configured to retrieve and generate or calculate the weighting for the geotargeted media using this additional information. More specifically the media server calculates the weighting with a geotargeting parameter generated from the static dynamic and temporal mobile locations. The media server also calculates the weighting with a relevancy parameter generated from the predetermined category and favorite preferences and a predetermined array of categories which maps or scans the relevancy parameter to a plurality of category data identifiers. Those geotargeted media items that have calculated weightings exceeding the weighting threshold are then identified to be queued for communication in response to the requests queries and or messages.

Additional configurations of the mobile media communication system and methods also may include a management server that is configured to manage resources across the system and during operation of the methods. The management server is further adapted to enable data acquisition including network site data and information. The management server may also be configured with the capability to normalize and store the acquired data and to enable communication of the network site data and related information to and from the various system components and in the methods of operation.

The management server may be preferably configured to manage a specific and predetermined limited geographic region for the mobile media management system and methods and may be replicated for use in adjacent and remotely located geographic regions. The management server is coupled to and configured to communicate with the media server the host network server and the directory search and mobile entity monitors among other components and elements of the systems and method. It is also configured to receive media having geotargeting locations category data and related information and to communicate such to and from the other system components.

The management server may also be configured with include and or be coupled to a data analytics and informatics capability or engine which can be adapted for communication with the other system components to enable information collection and analysis. The system and method also contemplates one or more system components to be coupled with in communication with and or incorporating one or more external and internal and or intra network domain controllers or internet name servers which are configured to map store lookup retrieve and communicate local and remote names and addresses and internet routing for network sites of the system and methods of the mobile communications management systems and related systems.

The mobile media communication system and methods is also configured in certain aspects to operate with include and enable a mobile application which is configured to periodically communicate with the host network directory search management and media servers and the mobile entity monitor and the other components of the system and methods. The mobile application is also configured among other capabilities to periodically and on demand to retrieve a temporal location with geographic coordinates and or related data to store predetermined category and favorite preferences and to periodically communicate the temporal location as a temporal mobile location and the predetermined preferences.

Among other configurations and arrangements the predetermined preferences can be preset in the mobile application and can be communicated to the mobile from any of the other components of the system and method including preferably the mobile application monitor. In any of the configurations and arrangements of the mobile application it is configured to be downloaded to and to operate on any of a number of ubiquitous static portable mobile and hand held electronic devices and to be compatible for use with a variety of electronic device hardware and software and operating systems and environments.

In other aspects of example implementations of the mobile communications management system and methods the system includes a plurality of computer processors transient memories and non transient computer readable storage media network subsystems and interfaces user interfaces and displays and communications capabilities. These components and subsystems are in part collocated and are also configured in well known geographically disparate cloud based arrangements that enable optimized and on demand resource allocation reliability resilience and system wide durability using a variety of wide available information technology architectures and implementations.

In other exemplary arrangements a mobile media communications system includes a request message or query entity extractor which is executable on one or more processors that are coupled to a memory and a network. The query message or request entity extractor is configured to receive and shallow parse a query message or request that has among other data a source IP address into shallowly parsed extracted entities.

A geofencer is also incorporated and is in communication with the query entity extractor. The geofencer is configured to lookup a geographic location with the source IP address using internal external and combination systems and databases that report a location that is associated with the source IP address and other related information. The geofencer is also arranged to generate a geofence that is defined by a grid having a perimeter wherein the grid is formed from adjacent equal area isometric geozones surrounding a centrally positioned geozone as a grid center that includes the location as described elsewhere herein. Preferably each geozone has a respective unique geozone designator.

A faceting searcher is included to be in communication with the query entity extractor and is configured to search predetermined category domains with the extracted entities wherein each domain includes at least items services and locations. The faceting searcher is also adapted to generate a one to many category array for each extracted entity that associates one or more categories of the predetermined category domains to each extracted entity. The faceting searcher may also be configured to generate with the location and extracted entities and associated category arrays a conflated query array that includes the extracted entities the category array and a query confidence probability for each category array element.

The faceting searcher is further configured to search a host network site repository and server and a plurality of network sites with the grid and conflated query array and to retrieve one or more network site keys within the grid perimeter and an associated relevancy probability calculated as a function of the number of retrieved network site keys having associated categories that match those of the category arrays of the conflated query.

The media server described elsewhere herein is in communication the faceting searcher and directory search monitor and as already described in part is configured to retrieve and communicate targeted media having a geozone identifiers that are within the grid perimeter and b categories that match at least one of the category arrays of the conflated query.

The host network site repository and server are also incorporated and is in communication with the media server and the faceting searcher and configured to among other capabilities retrieve from the network site repository one or more network sites respectively matching the one or more network keys generate one or more composited data bundles embedding the targeted media with the one or more network sites and communicate one or more of the conflated query array with the one or more composited data bundles.

As the host network site repository is configured communicating the one or more conflated query array and the composited data bundles may in certain configurations be in response to the query and may also be in response to a predetermined sequence of unrelated operations. The one or more conflated query array may be adapted to include sending the one or more conflated query array and the composited data bundles a in reply to the query and b also to at least one of an entity and a network site operator as part of one or more push notifications.

The host network site repository and server is arranged to be in communication with the media server and the faceting searcher and is configured to receive a response to the one or more push notifications from the entity and to communicate the response to the network site operator. The host network server may also be configured to receive a response to the one or more push notifications from the network site operator and to communicate the response to the entity.

The mobile media communications system may be further configured wherein the query further includes a no geo limit parameter and wherein the geofencer is further configured to lookup a geographic region in response to the no geo limit and to generate the geofence grid perimeter to surround the geographic region.

Any of the configurations of the mobile media communications system may be further modified to include a directory search monitor in place of and or operable as part of and or in combination with the faceting searcher and similar to those arrangements described elsewhere herein. This directory search monitor is configured to search the network site repository and server and a plurality of network sites with the grid and conflated query array and to retrieve the one or more network site keys and to generate an associated relevancy probability calculated as a function of the network site keys having a number of categories that match those of the category arrays of the conflated query.

In this variation the media server is in communication with both the faceting searcher and directory search monitor and is configured similarly to prior arrangements to retrieve targeted media having geozone identifiers that are within the grid perimeter and categories that match at least one of the category arrays of the conflated query and to embed the retrieved targeted media in a data wrapper. The instant configuration is similarly arranged with the host network server in communication with the media server and the faceting searcher as well as the directory search monitor. In various other arrangements the host network server is configured to perform one or more capabilities and functions of one or more of the other components.

This summary of the implementations and configurations of the mobile media communications system is intended to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified and less technically detailed arrangement which concepts are further described in more detail below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. The features functions capabilities and advantages discussed here may be achieved independently in various example implementations or may be combined in yet other example implementations as further described in part elsewhere herein and which may also be better understood by those skilled and knowledgeable in the relevant fields of technology with reference to the following description and drawings.

The following detailed description is exemplary and is not intended to limit the disclosure the claims or the demonstrative implementations and uses of the present disclosure. Descriptions of specific devices techniques and applications for use and operation are provided only as examples. Modifications to the examples described herein should be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art and the general principles defined herein may be applied to other configurations and arrangements without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Furthermore there is no intention to be bound by any expressed or implied theory presented in the preceding descriptions of the field of technology background summary or the following detailed description. The present disclosure should be accorded scope consistent with the claims and not limited to the examples described and shown herein.

Example and representative configurations adaptations and implementations of the present disclosure may be described herein in terms of specific hardware and software architectures and by way of physical functional and or logical systems subsystems components and various processing steps and methods of operation. It should be appreciated that such representative and schematic figures and diagrams may be realized by any number of hardware software and or firmware components configured to enable implement and perform the specified capabilities and functions.

For the sake of brevity conventional techniques and components related to use during operations and other functional aspects of the systems and the individual operating components of the systems may be described here only with enough technical detail so as to enable those with ordinary knowledge skill and ability in the technical field to practice the implementations. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that example implementations of the present disclosure may be practiced in conjunction with a variety of hardware software networked world wide web based internet based and cloud based configurations of the mobile media communication system which may further incorporate various combinations of such implementations.

As should be understandable to those with ordinary skill in the art after reading this description the following are examples and example implementations of the present disclosure and are not limited to operating only in accordance with these examples. Other implementations may be realized and utilized and changes may be made without departing from the scope of the example implementations presented herein.

With reference now to the various figures and illustrations and specifically to a system and method for mobile media communication is described which is implemented on at least one computer system having one or more processors coupled to and in communication with networks and user interfaces and transient memories and non transient storage mediums and other components of the system. This arrangement of the system for mobile media communication includes among other components and systems a directory search monitor coupled to and in communication with a mobile entity monitor a media server a geocoder a host network site repository and server a management server a remote management server an inter regional server and a mobile application .

Each of these cooperatively interconnected components incorporates various additional components and subsystems that enable the capabilities and innovations of the system . Further the exemplary system in this representative arrangement is further thereby enabled to interact with various external systems components and entities that may include information technologists such as systems operators and administrators system users and customers such as customer support personnel business owners.

The system is further configured to enable use by and communication with and between such customers and business owners directly with targeted consumers using any electronic devices. Such consumers are able to interact directly with the business owners across various mobile media communications systems that are compatible for use with their respective electronic devices whether such are desktop computers laptops hand held devices tablets or mobile phones.

The system is optimized to enable the consumers to rapidly receive geotargeted media that they may self identify as being of interest or a favorite as well as relevancy amplified geotargeted media that is automatically selected and communicated as a function of such self identification. Further the system is implemented to enable business owners to rapidly create dedicated network sites that communicate essential business information and to directly and quickly communicate new media and information pushed to these consumers in a controlled geotargeted way that has never before been available. Additionally as is described in more technical detail below the system further enables both the business owners and interested consumers to avoid the many pitfalls presently encountered by preventing unwanted irrelevant and potentially conflicting or even possibly harmful media from being communicated between the business owner system customers and the interested consumers.

The mobile media communication system is implemented to configure the management server to be designated as a regional management server that is located within or configured to communicate optimally within a specifically defined geographic region. In this way the system may be replicated to operate in service of various geographic regions which further enables balancing of resource and operational loads. The regionally configured system is adapted to be operationally managed by the management server and to communicate with similarly configured geographically remote regional servers to ensure the system performs optimally within each designated geographic region.

To further optimize regional and inter regional use operation and management of the internal and inter regional infrastructure that support system the inter regional management server is preferably configured to primarily manage the operational use and resource loads of the regionally adapted management servers . This configuration also enables business owners with greater geographic reach to replicate media communications with consumers across different geographic regions with greater ease and enables the complementary aspect wherein the remote consumers are more easily able to communicate with business owners across the regions. This further enables such consumers to communicate with business owners located in areas where the consumers may intend to prospectively travel.

In each of these contemplated arrangements the system is adapted wherein the regional management servers and the inter regional management server or servers may be operated and maintained by respective regional technical support engineers and administrators RA and their inter regional counterparts IRA. The business owners and their support engineering service and marketing personnel and administrators BA are able to employ system though one or more system capabilities available through their desktop laptop mobile and many other electronic devices through any of the regionally centric management servers .

To optimize the capability for the system to manage millions of business owner network sites for communication to millions of consumers the regional and inter regional management servers enable incorporate manage and or control one or more external and internal and or intra network domain controllers or internet name servers DC NS . Theses DCs and NSs are adapted to map store lookup retrieve and communicate local and remote names and addresses and internet routing for network sites of the system and related systems. Moreover these name servers domain controllers can also be configured to communicate with other externals systems such as top level name servers which can further improve network site and media communication response times.

The system may be further modified to include or communicate with one or more network internet web log blog and or discussion or informational frequently asked question FAQ systems . These can also be managed by and or coupled with the system through the management servers .

It is often desirable to acquire and analyze system performance and to ascertain patterns of use and statistics and demographics of users. The system can implement and or communicate and utilize any number of geolocation fraud prevention informatics and data analytics DA tools and systems . Some useful and well known systems include the proprietary Google Analytics MaxMind KISSmetrics Clicky Moz and the free open source tools PIWIK IP2Location StatCounter and OWA Open Web Analytics.

The media server is alternatively configurable to communicate through the management servers and or directly with the DA informatics engine to accumulate data and statistics and data on responses and or messages of entities D S M to communicated media network sites and search requests or queries or messages included in the received requests or queries or messages . The media server analyzes the accumulated data and statistics to adjust the weightings of communicated media and network sites as described elsewhere herein.

The system also enables exemplary implementations of the directory search monitor that interface externally to communicate with dynamic entities D and static entities S which can be remote external systems including desktop computers laptops tablets hand held devices mobile phones and the many other portable electronic devices. Preferably the directory search monitor hosts an externally facing website or internet or application as a service IaaS AaaS capability that monitors for requests queries and or messages from internet web browser systems requesting network sites from the system .

Additionally the system further enables configurations of the mobile entity monitor with an interface to the mobile application wherein the mobile entity monitor can be hosted and operational on a centrally hosted system as part of the other internal components of system . The mobile application is preferably hosted on a mobile entity M which among other possible devices can be a mobile or portable electronic device. As can be understood by those knowledgeable in this technology area the mobile application is contemplated here in the singular for purposes of example and detailed technical illustration but in operation is enabled as a plurality of thousands and even millions of such applications hosted on various electronic devices.

In any of the various implementations of the mobile media communication system it is desirable to employ an optimized infrastructure and system architecture that enables consistent persistent on demand performance and information durability. More specifically the preferred architecture for system incorporates a hybridized cloud based infrastructure wherein the various components and subsystems of the mobile media communication system may be individually configured to self optimize as demand for processing power storage retrieval data replication communications and backup increase and decrease within the geographic region served by each regionally designated systems .

The contemplated hybridized cloud based infrastructure and architecture of the mobile media communication system can be achieved in part using any of a number of commercially available cloud service providers CSPs . Such CSPs enable various types of cloud based infrastructures that range from individualized servers and virtual machines to scalable enterprise storage and network communication systems. Each such arrangement can be configured with dedicated on demand and combination configurations of processors storage communications bandwidth and related systems having guaranteed minimum response times and data durability and persistence.

Many such capabilities are often configured in several aspects as service oriented architectures SoAs with infrastructure as a service IaaS networks communications storage platforms as a service PaaS processors and virtual machines running preselected operating systems as pre configured platforms integration PaaS platforms custom integrated with various IaaS SaaS subsystems and sometimes having on demand software SW as a service SaaS licensing options. The most well known CSPs and products include Microsoft s Azure Amazon s Web Service AWS Google Cloud Rackspace Cloud and Hewlett Packard HP Helion formerly Cloud Compute and Public Cloud .

For purposes of the mobile media communication system the preferred hybrid cloud system includes the system established as customized dedicated SoA components implemented on virtual machines and coupled by dedicated communications links in a secure virtual private network VPN IaaS environment managed by the inter regional and regional management servers using the domain controllers name servers to map the VPN intra network private domain space between the management servers and the directory search monitor the mobile entity monitor the media server the geocoder and the host network site repository and server . Preferably the mobile applications communicate with the system and establish secure VPN and or SSL and non secure open connections as appropriate for various modes of operation with the mobile entity monitor and other system components.

In addition to this hybrid cloud network communications infra structure the system is also preferably configured with the SoA server components having well formed MVC or model view control underlying architectures that employ robust server side PHP hypertext frameworks. More specifically the SoA aspect of the architecture ensures that the components of system are a collection of services communicating with one another to enable rapid load balancing wherein high demand for services can be met essentially within an instant with duplicate service images being spawned across the iPaaS SoA system .

In contrast as demand wanes unneeded duplicate services can be quickly terminated and the resources abandoned so as to minimize costs. Here the system uses the classical definitions of SoA services wherein each service whether it be an operating server or monitor or a constituent subsystem or service thereof is well defined self contained and does not depend upon the context or state of other services whether they be duplicate complementary cooperative or a service that sources consumes or modifies information from others.

The system and components servers and monitors are preferably enabled using any of a number of internet and web application frameworks and convenient combination thereof. Some of the more well known frameworks have been found to work especially well for purposes of implementing the system . For example while a number of proprietary and open source frameworks have been demonstrated to be effective the frameworks that embrace and enable C Java and JavaScript PHP and the many well support user communities are recommended for purposes of the system .

Preferably the Phalcon Laravel CodeIgniter Yii and Symfony and Symfony 2 PHP frameworks have enabled the contemplated system to be configured in new ways that vastly improve response times high low demand scalability and the ability to incorporate back end data management and VPN public domain network communications infrastructures. Of particular import the system in its various configurations has benefited from the expandability of these frameworks which enable highly customizable aspects for greatly improved use of complementary technologies.

Such complementary technologies used for purposes of implementing system include using Symfony as an illustrative example without limitation AJAX asynchronous JavaScript and XML extensible markup language HTML and CSS hypertext markup language and cascaded style sheets MVC model view controller JSON JavaScript object notation and DOM document object model classes that enable improved dynamic display of data for improved user interactions.

The system and its components make efficient use of what those skilled in this field know as an XMLHttpRequest object which enables the mobile application and its users to experience markedly improved speed and response times even on slow mobile communications networks. The XMLHttpRequest enables asynchronous data exchange without the need for full page reloads between the mobile application and the system components that include the directory search monitor the mobile entity monitor the media server the geocoder and the host network site repository and server .

The mobile application and the system components and subsystems also are configured to further improve speed and reliability in preferred configurations that specifically employ the MVC sub framework to incorporate the DRY do not repeat yourself coding philosophy which when combined with the independence of each SoA service ensures a much more reliable fault tolerant system wherein primary secondary tertiary and other duplicate spawned services can fail safely and be terminated without any effect on other services which operate independently. In this way if a service is operating as a supplier or a consumer of data and resources from another service that fails the supplier or consumer services can simply renew their request s which can then be met by another operating service without delay.

As a further example again using the Symfony framework as an illustrative example without intent to limitation the scope of the system as claimed the various system servers and monitors including the directory search monitor the mobile entity monitor the media server the geocoder and the host network site repository and server are thus able to incorporate a number of very effective high speed highly reconfigurable back end data storage technologies.

One of the various problems that persist in the implementation and use of mobile media communication systems such as system is that the data requested by applications such as mobile application changes rapidly the rapid change or high data volatility occurs from both the server side wherein new data that is responsive to a particular request changes due to source data changes and the data that the application seeks changes as the requests change.

As a result of the many changes to data each of the system components including the directory search monitor the mobile entity monitor the media server the geocoder and the host network site repository and server must incorporate the capability to accommodate the continuously changing data and the requirement to rapidly communicate the data in its present state with the lowest possible latency all while preventing data loss optimized reliability and while enabling data protection maintaining data durability . Many such data management and storage technologies exist that could be incorporated for purposes of enabling system .

Persons knowledgeable in the field of data storage technologies have come to understand that legacy proprietary and open source database technologies such as hierarchical and relational databases experience short comings when used in applications with high data volatility where data changes continuously and must be communicated in a present state rapidly on demand. Hierarchical databases organize data into tree like structures with tables of records connected by links between tables. Relational databases RDBs and RDB management systems RDBMSs typically offer less than optimal performance in such environments. RDBs are characterized in that they store data and information about how the data is related in flat two dimensional tables that embody the relationships between the data.

While many tables can be used in such databases to define such links and relationships a query and or message request can take too much time to process as the engine traverses the various tables links and relationships to generate a response. Even though some attempts have been made to improve response times such as by implementing structured query language SQL schemas or paradigms such attempts have been implemented without any single standard approach which has made it challenging to use such technologies. These issues have become even more pronounced with the exponential rise of requirements for more real time capable database systems that are needed for mobile media applications such the mobile media communication system and its complementary mobile application .

This is mostly because every resultant SQL compliant database has adopted its own interpretation of the generic SQL schema and thus has its own set of peculiarities benefits and shortcomings which in combination still have not enabled use for the high rate data change and communication requirements of the present system . Such shortcomings have given rise to a new paradigm of non relational databases which are often referred to as NoSQL databases known as both No SQL and Not Only SQL . The NoSQL databases organize data using methods other than the table link relationship SQL legacy constructs yet maintain some aspects of compatibility with legacy SQL query constructs. These new NoSQL technologies are also well suited to the on demand lack of demand up and down scalability preferred in the IaaS PaaS iPaaS cloud based architectures preferred for use in the present system .

For example many types of open source distributed NoSQL technologies are presently available and are readily adapted for use in the real time high demand system . There are four primary types of such NoSQL system that include document column key value and graph technologies. What has been found to be most effective for purposes for purposes of system are the key value class of NoSQL databases which include a number of well known proprietary and open source systems Aerospike FoundationDB MemcacheDB Dynamo Redis Teradata Cassandra and Riak among others. For illustrative purposes in technically describing the system the open source Redis key value database is contemplated here as it has developed a large support community and many application programming interfaces APIs that enable use with a variety of complementary technologies such as the PHP web application frameworks described elsewhere herein.

In combination with these various types of NoSQL key value systems the system is also found to be vastly improved when its various components are configured to incorporate various document oriented databases to capture and retain various media in improved binary encoded formats. Such database structures and formats are susceptible to high speed storage and retrieval and which optimize resiliency scalability by sharding and related performance capabilities described herein. For example document oriented database systems such as MongoDB with its binary Javascript object notation or BJSON or BSON document oriented database is of particular value as are similarly capable systems that include for purposes of example Couchbase Apache CouchDB RavenDB and Apache Jackrabbit.

Additionally the mobile media communication system is further optimized by incorporating one or more dedicated and optimized search engines that enable various components of system dedicated to search for data content in the noted NoSQL database systems. More specifically the system includes such dedicated search applications to enable full text search faceted searching and distributed searching for scalability among capabilities. Among various possible subsystems the system may incorporate or more such dedicated search engines including for example not limitation Elasticsearch Solr Splunk and or Marklogic among others.

The mobile media communications system has the particular requirements of needing real time or near real time response times for communicating continuously changing media being sourced from millions of media owners in response to millions of requests queries and or messages over short periods of time between millions of dynamic and static entities. These general top level requirements in turn generate the need to extremely fast database response times which often requires that the database maintain data in a cached dataset resident in high speed random access memory RAM of the servers and monitors of system including of course the directory search monitor the mobile entity monitor the media server the geocoder and the host network site repository and server .

Other derived requirements for system include the need to ensure data persistence and durability even though the data must be maintained in high speed RAM which requires a mechanism whereby RAM resident data can be written to a more permanent storage medium even though the data may be continuously changing. Further it is required that any such implementation must be compatible for use in the similarly required cloud based iPaaS PaaS IaaS and SoA architecture described elsewhere herein. This requirement ensures fail safe automated fail over data protections can be implemented to guarantee data preservation and request responsiveness in the face of inevitable hardware software and network failures.

It is also preferred that RAM and disk storage data can be accommodated in response to scalable demand in the cloud based environment with manageable master slave slave master RAM and disk arrangements. With the contemplated NoSQL RAM resident disk storage backed arrangement it is also preferred that the database system enable and be readily compatible with an integral key hashing technology that enables very high speed collision free key generation

To implement these requirements and to enable the management communication storage according to the present mobile media communication system we illustratively describe the system components using the open source Redis NoSQL database system as an example. While meeting most of these requirements the Redis database has been highly customizable to accommodate the system . However some of those skilled in the field have determined that many RAM resident NoSQL systems are only recommended for use with data sets that have a predictable or foreseeable size.

For mobile media communication systems like system it has been seen that the total data set size for the enterprise system can be unpredictable in that high demand times can require seemingly random high limits while low demand times can see virtually no demand. Consequently it has been difficult to properly predict high demand data set sizes to enable predictive accommodation on demand in time to prevent system overload non responsiveness and catastrophic failure which would otherwise cause the system to stop operating until it can be restarted.

However the mobile media communication system has been implemented on the above noted cloud systems in combination with the real time Redis or similarly capable NoSQL database in a virtual machine VM clustered configuration wherein the RAM of each VM can be similarly clustered to enable the various Redis databases to be rebalanced in both the RAM resident and disk stored configurations. In the example of a Redis implementation many auto balancing options are integrally available or easily coded to enable database volatility load and persistence requirements to drive the re partitioning data sharding across master slave persistent and semi persistent and or snap shotting implementations. As the database grows and shrinks as demand rises and dissipates the hosting cloud infrastructure system are preferably configured to automatically spawn new clusters and de cluster and terminate unneeded VM images and RAM profiles on demand to accommodate the needed resource loads and to dissociate unneeded resources to minimize costs.

Described differently in combination with the NoSQL data management capability and on demand up and down scalability of the cloud based iPaaS PaaS IaaS architecture the system can replicate VMs and expand RAM upon demand and terminate and release resources and the Redis database based monitors and servers of system can adjust growing and shrinking in unlimited ways so long as the CSP can maintain its advertised on demand availability and scalability.

With each of these technologies requirements and capabilities in mind and with continuing reference to and now also to more detailed descriptions of the capabilities of the mobile media communication system are explained. In operation the directory search monitor is implemented to receive simultaneous and or sequentially queued requests for data from any of a number of entities which can include dynamic requests or queries or messages from mobile or dynamic entities D and static requests or queries or messages from stationary or temporarily fixed static entities S. Typically such requests queries and or messages will be transmitted from an internet browser from the static and dynamic entities S D over an internet communications network.

For example any off the shelf internet browser might be hosted on a mobile dynamic device D or a static device S and send the respective dynamic or static requests or queries or messages and navigate to an exemplary website having a standard uniform resource locater URL such as www.shopyourlocal.biz and www.searchable.com. The request would be handled initially by the respective service provider whether it be an internet service provider ISP hosted by a dynamic mobile device provider such as Verizon Sprint AT T or another or a land based ISP such Time Warner FIOS or many others.

Each or any of these ISPs would send the requested URL to domain controller and or name server integrated into their respective proprietary networks or a top level domain name server maintained by one of the many internet backbone service providers. By any of these means the URL would be mapped and translated to a standard TCP IP numerical address of 23.101.190.4 which at the time of this application is hosted by the Microsoft cloud service known presently as Azure out of one of their Texas based cloud infrastructure and data warehousing locations.

The directory search monitor in this example would respond to either request with a website data bundle encoded with various data and JavaScript code modules bundled therein that enable the XMLHttpRequest and or iframe asynchronous interactive object capabilities depending upon whether the requesting browser enables HTLM5 or legacy technologies contemplated by the various elements of system which enable portions or subframes of a composited webpage to be updated and interactively used without the need to reload the entire website page. Preferably each of the dynamic and static requests or queries or messages will include respective embedded geographic locations of the requesting entities D S.

If the locations are not included and if the hosted browser and the entities S D are so configured the directory search monitor will request and may receive the embedded geographic locations of the entities S D that sent the requests queries and or messages which geographic locations will be communicated by the directory search monitor to other components of system .

In the alternative and in the absence of receiving a usable geographic location the directory search monitor may be further configured to estimate a geographic location by reverse TCP IP address lookup in combination with other information available to the monitor which may include polling other resources for location information derivable from available browser cookies entity MAC addresses and public user information resources that may track such data and associate geographic information thereto. The directory search monitor may also be configured to embed the received or estimated locations into the requests or queries or messages for communication to other components of the system .

The system is also configured with the mobile entity monitor communicatively coupled to the directory search monitor and the other system components. The mobile entity monitor is primarily configured to receive a mobile entity request message and or query from a mobile entity M. The request message and or query preferably includes a temporal mobile location which includes a time if available as well as the geographic location data.

The time data if available can be used to enable further aspects of the system which can be configured to timely push media to the mobile entity M when it is near certain locations of interest thereto. With capability similar to that of the directory search monitor the mobile entity monitor can be configured to poll for or estimate the geographic location upon receipt of the mobile request message and or query and to embed the location however obtained or estimated into the temporal mobile location for communication to other components of the system .

The mobile entity monitor may also be configured to receive predetermined categories of interest and one or more favorite categories or favorite websites in connection with as part of and or independently from receiving the temporal mobile location . The communication of such information from the mobile entity M is controlled thereby and may be communicated to the mobile entity monitor upon request automatically or as may be otherwise controlled by predetermined or adjustable settings on the mobile entity M.

The mobile media communication system also includes a media server that communicates with the directory search monitor and mobile entity monitor and the other components of the system . The media server is configured to receive store search for and identify media that is geotargeted and of interest to and relevant for communication to the dynamic static and mobile entities D S M. The media server is also adapted to receive at least one of the dynamic static and mobile entity requests or queries or messages and locations and to communicate this information with embedded location coordinates and data to other components of the system .

The media received stored searched retrieved and communicated typically includes a large variety of volatile continuously updated media that usually will include geographic region data and or geographic location information or data . The embedded or associated geographic data enables the media to be geotargeted for communication to the dynamic static and mobile entities D S M that may most benefit from receiving such media and or which entities are targeted to receive such media . The received and stored types of media create a compendium thereof and establish a plurality of different geotargeted media .

Such geotargeted media can include images graphics text location and or geographic region data or geotargeting data or location information multimedia information such as video and audio among other types of data. In other alternative adaptations the media will also include subject matter category data media type media size and position preferences . The media type can specify attributes of style and whether the media format is a graphic image a video clip an audio clip or another type of multimedia which can enable the system to further amplify the relevance of the media to be communicated.

With respect to the media size and position preferences the media server communicates the position information and preferences to separately position each media item into pre defined positional zones about a media canvas to have predetermined arrangements. The media canvas establishes a predictable way wherein different formats and types of media information can be placed positioned overlaid and dynamically movable with respect to the media canvas .

The media size and position preferences also enables the media server and other components of system to queue the media into certain predetermined positions on the media canvas for use in responses such as web pages that may be communicated in response to the requests or queries or messages . The media server receives and is further configured to utilize the dynamic static and mobile requests or queries or messages and the respective locations and to compare this data to the geographic data and the category data to enable communication of media that is thereby geotargeted and subject matter relevant to the requests or queries or messages from the entities D S M.

The media server is also configured to receive store search for retrieve and communicate geotargeted media that incorporates a media push tag . This push tag may be incorporated into or as part of metadata with or as part of the geotargeted media or which can be encoded or otherwise embedded as part of the geotargeted media other data and information elements. The push tag preferably includes a dated time limit and a discrete impression count .

The dated time limit can be used by the media server to specify or otherwise establish a time period during which the geotargeted media can be communicated and where at times outside the time period the geotargeted media may be classified as expired so it will not be communicated. In this way only media with unexpired time limits can be retrieved and communicated. The impression count is used by the media server as another means by which to amplify the relevance of the communicated media as a function of preferred periods of time and to only communicate the geotargeted media a certain number of times that does not exceed the count where after the media is deemed exhausted. Each time a media item is embedded and communicated from the media server the count is decremented.

In additionally preferable arrangements the media server is also adapted to overcome the problems associated with entities using various types of media blocking methods which are the result of entities D S M being inundated with media that is irrelevant both from a geographic location and subject matter category perspective. The media server is adapted to overcome this obstacle in one of a number of ways.

One such adaptation of media server searches for relevant media as noted and instead of communicating the media directly in response to the requests or queries or messages the media server instead first embeds or composites the media into a data bundle or data stream in a pre rendered format such as a webpage ready to display before communicating the data bundle in response. By pre rendering the media into and as part of the data stream or bundle the media server ensures or at least greatly improves the probability the media will be communicated to and displayed by the entities D S M without being blocked before display.

This also greatly improves the effectiveness speed of display and operation of media delivery to the entities D S M prevents incorrectly displayed information that is communicated from system and ensures that the system is configured to improve the experience of users. The pre rendering of media and other information into the data bundle is done by the media server or other higher speed and higher processing power components of the system before communicating the data bundle instead of having to be accomplished by the likely less capable electronic devices such as entities D S M.

The media server may use any number of techniques to also precisely position and arrange the media or a series of such media forming the plurality of media into a combination of such data streams or bundles . The media server then communicates this data bundle to another component in system such as directory search monitor or host network site repository and server .

These components may then embed further data into the data bundle so that the media is masked and forms a part of a larger response such as a website page to the requests or queries or messages as before the media being embedded and or masked in a pre rendered format which also greatly speeds up the display of the larger response being communicated to entities D S M for interactive use and display. This capability prevents the media from being inadvertently or undesirably blocked by the entities D S M or applications be executed thereon thus further amplifying the relevance of the media for the benefit of the geotargeted and subject matter relevancy targeted recipients.

The media server is also configured to communicate the data bundle or streams to and or receive and or retrieve from the host network server at least one network site from a plurality of network sites stored on the host network site repository and server . The host network site repository and server among other capabilities receives stores retrieves and communicates the network sites in response to requests from other subsystems of system and other requesting services or entities. Each network site will typically include geographic location data and category data that classifies the network into one of a series of subject matter categories that correspond with the media categories data .

In this particular configuration the media server is further configured to generate one or more of the composited or embedded data bundles which embed the geotargeted media in combination with the at least one network site in the pre rendered configuration. Once composited embedded pre rendered and packaged into the data bundles the media server is adapted to communicate the one or more composited pre rendered data bundles as responses to the requests or queries or messages . In further possibly preferred arrangements the media server is also preferably configured to optionally communicate the composited data bundles directly to at least one of the directory search monitor and mobile entity monitor and or other elements and components of the system for subsequent communication to the entities D S M.

A geocoder is also included in the system and may be in communication with coupled to and or a part of the media server or other components of the system . The geocoder is preferably configured to receive a geographic location grid identifier coordinates in any of many possible forms such as by requests or queries or messages or as otherwise described herein. The geocoder is also configured to enable conversion of any received locations for example the static dynamic and temporal mobile locations between different types of geographic location data and or coordinates.

Examples of geographic location information can include latitude and longitude coordinates postal codes street address region names or identifiers geographic information system GIS grid plat parcel property feature and other identifiers and geographic grid locations such as those associated with universal transverse Mercator UTM Universal Polar Stereographic UPS military grid reference system MGRS and many other types of geographic coordinates.

The geocoder is further configured upon receipt of a location such as dynamic static and temporal mobile locations to generate for each location a geozone designator which is preferably generated and normalized into a unique integer value. The geocoder is configured to use the received locations and the respectively generated geozone designators as grid centers used to generate a grid of geozones of nearby geographic locations with each generated geozone in the grid also having a unique geozone designator .

More specifically the geocoder uses the received locations and generated designators to generate a grid of equal area isometric adjacent geozones each having respectively assigned geozone designators . In addition to generating the geozone designators for each received location the geocoder is also configured to generate geozone identifiers for each geographic location data of the network site and for the geographic data for each media item . As with the geozone designators the geocoder is also adapted to generate the geozone identifiers as integer values that are computed from the geographic locations or data whether such locations are defined by geographic coordinates grid locations from other grid or gridding systems specific addresses zip codes and place names such as towns cities boroughs neighborhoods counties and similar naming conventions.

The grid generated by the geocoder is arranged to include a centrally positioned geozone that includes the received location one or more of locations which has been assigned the computed or generated geozone designator . In other words each geozone of the generated grid is assigned a calculated respective unique geozone designator which for the received location s is the grid central grid centered or centrally positioned geozone . The geocoder also preferably generates the grids of equal area geozones whereby each geozone has isometric predetermined polygonal and or rectilinear dimensions that circumscribe and define the area of each resultant polygon or geozone .

In another aspect of the present system and method the geocoder is configured to generate the grid to have the geozones generated within the grid and positioned adjacently with each other geozone . The adjacent positioning also surrounds the grid centered or center geozone which includes or contains the centrally positioned static dynamic and or mobile locations . Illustrated differently geocoder is also further configured to generate the grid to have at least a predetermined number of geozones which are adjacently arranged with each other and around the grid centered geozone .

It may be even more useful and preferable in certain configurations of the geocoder such that the geocoder generates the grid to have a group of geozones perhaps at least nine geozones or more if preferred arranged substantially in rows and columns for example 3 rows and 3 columns with the location centrally positioned in a center grid or grid centered geozone of the nine. The substantially isometric dimensions of each geozone in the grid may have a predetermined and or adjustably configured dimension for purposes of example only of one mile one kilometer ten miles or ten kilometers or any other preferred dimension or in any other unit system. In other alternative arrangements the grid may be established to have non rectilinear configurations and may instead or in combination use concentric circular grids having radii some preferred pre established or predetermined distance and having each circular element of the curvilinear grid being segmented into pie slices or secant sections bounded by inner and outer circular segments and two radii set apart by a selected angle.

The system also further incorporates the host network site repository and server that is communicatively coupled to the media server and the directory search and mobile entity monitors and other components of system . The host network site repository and server receives normalizes parses stores retrieves and communicates the network site information and is configured among many various capabilities to generate unique network site keys and to also communicate to and receive from the media server the geotargeted media and previously retrieved network site keys retrieved during media server searches described elsewhere herein. The network site keys are initially generated by the host network site repository and server and or its components and subsystems and the keys are used to and enable rapidly look up network site information from a the network site repository and server having a plurality of network sites .

As previously described in other contexts the host network site repository and server will similarly encounter high data volatility and will need to minimize latency when searching for retrieving and communicating requested network site information . Accordingly an optimized configuration of the host network site repository and server will incorporate one or more of the NoSQL or non relational database key value systems already described. This implementation will be best served in combination with using the on demand resource scalability available from the noted exemplary CSPs.

Each of the configurations of the system described herein are also compatible for further variations the implement the media server being configured to receive retrieve and communicate the geotargeted media after searching the geographic data for geographic proximity range distance or proximity range or range of proximities to the locations of the requests or queries or messages . The media server accomplishes the search by comparing the geozone designators with the geozone identifiers for network sites and media . Since the media server must only compare the integers that define the geozone designators for locations and identifiers the comparison is rapid. As those skilled in the technical field should be able to comprehend the exemplary dimensional arrangement of the geozones and the assembled grids enables the media server to quickly calculate approximate distance range proximity proximity range or range of proximity range values between the dynamic static and mobile locations and the geographic location data of the media and the locations of the network sites .

The media server can thus calculate distance or proximity range and retrieve and communicate geotargeted responsive media and geographically proximate network sites by utilizing minimal computing resources and with very low latency despite the need to process millions of requests or queries or messages and to search through potentially millions of media items and network sites .

For purposes of continued illustration using a different explanation the geotargeted media and the network site keys are selected retrieved and communicated if they have geographic location data proximate to the received locations . Such geographic proximity distance range or proximity range is another way to measure geographic relevance or preferred geotargeting. The simplest case to assess for closeness or distance or proximity is accomplished if the location or location data of the network site keys and or the geotargeted media location data have respective geographic or geozone identifiers that equal the geographic or geozone designator of any of the geozones of the generated grid .

By implementing a geozone identifier and designator coding schema whereby adjacent geozones have generated or computed integer values that are within some predetermined range of one another adjacent proximity distance closeness or proximity range can be readily calculated without the need for more complex computing resource intensive geographic distance and unit conversion computations.

The media server also contemplates configurations wherein the media server is customized to generate store retrieve communicate and calculate a weighting for the geotargeted media and for the network site keys as a function of the constituent data elements for each. The computation of the weighting enables the plurality of geotargeted media and network sites to be compared for ranking the members of the plurality as a function of the data contained therein and with the data contained in the requests or queries or messages . In this way the media server can establish an amplified geotargeted and subject matter category relevancy of the media and network sites to be communicated in direct context of the requests or queries or messages .

More specifically the weighting is calculated and the relevancy determination is made by comparing the informational aspects of the media and network sites to the location and category information received in the requests or queries or messages . The information dimensions compared include the locations versus the locations the predetermined categories of interest the favorite categories and the favorite websites .

For example if the range of possible weightings span 0 on the low end to a high end of 100 a sample weighting can be calculated wherein when locations have geozone designators that match a geozone identifier a first relevancy parameter may be set to equal 100 . If instead there is close proximity or a small distance between the locations to such adjacent geozones then the 1relevancy parameter might be calculated as 75 or any other preferred set point.

A proximity distance or proximity range that is farther than some predetermined or pre established or preferred proximity range and outside of this preference then the 1relevancy parameter may be set to 0 zero percent which establishes irrelevancy or otherwise excludes media and network sites that are beyond the preferred distance and proximity range s and too far from the locations .

Similarly calculating the relevancy of the categories between the requests or queries or messages and those categories of the media and network sites can calculate analogous values to be applied to a 2relevancy parameter . Comparing the other data items can set values of 3and nth relevancy parameters . The weighting can then be computed by summation and averaging or any of a host of various methods that may include further weightings applied to each of the relevancy parameters.

In another illustrative configuration that may be used alone or in combination with those elsewhere described the weighting may be further calculated whereby the nth relevancy parameters are computed or generated from a predetermined cross tabulation array of categories having preset relevancy weightings established in the table. For example the cross tab might have the same categories across a row axis and a columnar axis. For row column intersections of identical categories the nth relevancy parameter might equal null or 0 zero percent .

For similar but not identical categories the row column intersection might equal 80 which may be sensible for a vehicle dealership row intersecting a tire or vehicle repair entity. But a vehicle dealership row that intersects an unrelated category such as a bakery ought to have a 0 relevancy. So if all possible categories numbered as an example the cross tab table would have 300 rows and 300 columns establishing 90 000 intersections with identical category intersections having 0 relevancy.

In this way the weighting calculation is configured to optimize the relevance of geotargeted media and network sites that are communicated in response to the various requests or queries or messages . This preferred relevancy determination enables precise targeted and focused media and network sites to be identified selected and communicated in response to the requests or queries or messages whereby the media and network sites to be communicated will thereby have an optimized weighting and amplified relevance to requests.

In yet another modified configuration the media server is further configured to use the accumulated statistics to adjust the relevancy parameters and to thereby further adjust the weightings to communicate media and network sites that are most of interest to entities D S M. In a further example for purposes of illustration but not limitation the media server can be further configured to automatically update the weightings for media and network sites as a function of how many times the dynamic static and temporal mobile requests or queries or messages are received with additional information that substantiates higher levels of interest.

More specifically in these expanded modifications of the preceding configurations the requests or queries or messages may be further adapted to include media click categories searches categories and demographics that can be self identified by users of the entities D S M. Further the media server and or the data analytics engine are individually and or cooperatively configured to accumulate this request data as the accumulated statistics . Additionally the directory search monitor the mobile entity monitor the host network site repository and server and the management servers may gather this information from the requests or queries or messages or from independently monitoring and accumulating data and statistics from listening to request communications traffic passing through system .

In any of these configurations that gather and accumulate the accumulated statistics and data the media server is configured to automatically and in real time continuously or periodically modify the nth or nth 1 relevancy parameters and updated the predetermined cross tabulation array of categories with new relevancy weightings. The updated relevancy weightings in table and relevancy parameters and nth 1 would be increased for categories having higher media clicks for increased counts of search categories and or for categories that experience increased interest from certain aspects as evidenced by the demographic data . Similarly and in contrast such relevancy weightings in the table and relevancy parameters could also in some cases be decreased over some predetermined and suitable period of time in the absence of such media clicks counts of search categories and or for categories that experience no or decreased interest as evidenced by certain aspects of the demographic data

In configurations that adopt these real time response automatic relevancy updates the system can thereby be implemented with a machine learning capability that continuously adjusts up and down the relevancy parameters and in turn the weightings for media and network sites as a direct and real time function of how entities D S M are responding to the media and network sites that are being communicated to the entities D S M.

In contrast and in other exemplary configurations and as those skilled in the field might surmise or deduce from the preceding examples the weighting may also be configured to prevent communication of unwanted or otherwise undesired geotargeted media or network sites . For example it may be desired that geotargeted media of certain types categories and having certain locations should not be communicated in response to certain requests from locations too far away or not in some preferred pre established or predetermined proximity range or distance. For a specifically requested network site the media server may be configured whereby geotargeted media is selected from a group or plurality of geotargeted media such that each media item has a media category identifier that is not equal to the network site category identifier of the network site . This capability can prevent the unwanted results of having media embedded into the data bundles that directly competes or conflicts with the information contained in the network site .

The host network site repository and server is further configured to receive the network site data with the media push tags described elsewhere herein which have the noted time limit and impression count data . The media server is this arrangement is also adapted to communicate the media push tags directly to the host network site repository and server or any of the other components of the system.

Here the media server also retrieves and generates the above described weighting for the geotargeted media by also calculating the nth relevancy parameter using an unexpired and elapsed time within the time limit and expended impression count from the impression count . The media server can thereby retrieve and communicate geotargeted media in response to requests or queries or messages more often when there are unexhausted impression counts and a limited or short amount of time left in the time limit to expend those impression counts .

Additional configurations of the mobile media communication system also include a management server that is configured to manage resources across the system and during operation of the methods. The management server is further adapted to enable data acquisition including network site data and related information . The management server is also enabled with the capability to normalize and store the acquired network site data by parsing the acquired data into a standardized format and arrangement this is forcibly consistent across all network sites so as to further optimize use of the NoSQL schema.

The management server may be preferably configured to manage a specific and predetermined limited geographic region for the mobile media management system and may be replicated for use in adjacent and remotely located geographic regions. The management server is coupled to and configured to communicate with the media server the host network site repository and server and the directory search and mobile entity monitors among other components. The management server is also configured to receive media having geographic location data category data and related information and to communicate such to and from the other system components.

The management server is also reconfigurable or can be replicated to operate as an inter regional server that is configured to manage the regionally adapted management servers . . As with the servers the inter regional server may incorporate one or more inter regional domain controllers and name servers .

The mobile media communication system is also implemented to operate with include and enable a mobile application . The mobile application is configured interact exclusively with the system in various optimized and customize ways so as to maximize responsiveness and utility. One configuration of mobile application enables direct access to the management servers to facilitate management of network site data by mobile entities M that may be authorized for such capability.

In other more ubiquitous aspects the mobile application is optimized to periodically communicate with the host network site repository and server directly or through the mobile entity monitor . In turn this capability enables communication with the directory search monitor and media server and the other components of the system . The mobile application is also configured among other capabilities to periodically and on demand to retrieve a temporal location TL with geographic coordinates and or related data to store category and favorite preferences and to periodically communicate the temporal location as a temporal mobile location and the predetermined preferences such as categories of interest favorite categories and favorite websites .

Any of the preceding implementations may be configured for operation in wide range of physical and architectural arrangements as can be understood from the preceding descriptions and various figures in connection with which is an illustration of a data processing system in accordance with an illustrative arrangement of the mobile media communication system . The data processing system may execute some of the capabilities previously described and is an example of a system computer upon which elements of the mobile media communication system methods and related applications code and modules may execute.

Storage devices such as memory permanent storage or computer readable media may store code for the system of and . Any of the memory persistent storage or computer readable media may be a non transitory computer readable storage media . In turn computer program product and program code could implement one or more elements of the system .

The data processing system includes a communications signal media and subsystem such as removable flash memory that universal serial bus Bluetooth and or near field communication addressable and similar media and infrastructure which enables communications between the processors memory persistent storage communications unit the input output I O unit and the displays .

Processors serve to execute instructions for software that may be loaded into memory which together may also be spawned and operate as the aforementioned VMs in addition to being configured as physical units. Software loaded into memory may include the systems and components of system which may be executed on the processors and memory to implement for example the various capabilities and operations described and illustrated in connection with . The processors may for example execute instructions for the mobile media communications system and methods for calculating the weights and for embedding the media into data bundles and for communicating information between the various resources.

The higher powered and larger number of processors also enable the pre rendering of the media and network sites into the data bundles before communication to the entities D S M so as to improve the operation of system wherein the less capable and lower speed processors of the entities D S M only need to display the communicated data bundles without having to decrement performance and resources to rendering.

The communications unit and communications infrastructure in these example implementations enables communications with other VMs that enables various components of system as such are scaled up and terminated during periods of lower demand any of which may be implemented across different geographic locations and across different communications and computing systems across the contemplated enterprise cloud infrastructures and architectures. The communications infrastructure and unit may send or receive data instructions and other electronic media from any of the described systems executing methods and the various user desktops laptops handheld devices and other devices in operation with the entities communicating with the system during operation.

The input output I O interface enables for input and output of data with other devices that may be connected to the data processing system and system . For example the input output I O unit may provide a connection for user input through the user interface a keyboard a mouse and or some other suitable input device. The displays provide a mechanism to display information to an entity D S M or users BA RA IRA thereof. The displays may display results of various operations and interactions to a user of any of the information contemplated and described.

The different components illustrated for the data processing system are not meant to provide architectural limitations to the manner in which different configurations of the mobile media communication system may be implemented but only to serve as expanded examples that are to be arranged and used in the context of the system as described. The different alternatives and arrangements may be made using any hardware device or system capable of running program code .

The different illustrative modifications and variations of the exemplary configurations can take the form of an entirely hardware based adaptation an entirely software based system or a hybrid implementation containing both hardware and software elements. Some variations and modifications are implemented in software which includes but is not limited to forms such as for example firmware resident software and microcode.

Furthermore the different aspects shown can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any device or system that executes instructions. For the purposes of this disclosure a computer usable or computer readable medium can generally be any tangible apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

With continuing reference to the various figures and specifically to an additional variation of the mobile media communications system is contemplated and incorporates a request or query entity extractor . As with other components of system the query entity extractor is embodied in and or executable on one or more processors that are coupled to memory and network among other components.

The query or request entity extractor is configured to receive and shallow parse a query or request or message that has among other data a source location which may be and that may include an IP address into shallowly parsed extracted entities. As contemplated in system shallow parsing includes tokenizing chunking and or identifying the elements of the requests or messages to enable the extractor to deconstruct the requests and find those elements that are most likely search terms that are searchable by system .

For example the queries or requests or messages may include categories and other data in addition to plain or structured requests or textual queries autocorrected for spelling errors with stop words removed and the extractor enables system to recognize those elements needed for searching system for responsive data. Stop words can include words that are not deemed to convey meaningful data or information e.g. it the a that this is be etc. as well as words that may be excluded for other technical or policy reasons e.g. offensive words words related to subject matter that is to be intentionally excluded words that cannot be corrected or that are unidentifiable as words in a language of the queries or requests or any other known language and words that are to be excluded for similar or analogous reasons.

This alternative configuration of system also includes a geofencer which is in communication with the query entity extractor . The geofencer is configured among other capabilities to lookup a geographic location with the source IP address using internal external and combination systems and databases that enable geolocation and which identify a location that is most likely to be associated with the source IP address as well as other related information that may include demographic data.

The geofencer is also further configured to generate a geofence that is defined by a perimeter that surrounds the grid of geozones described elsewhere herein. As before the grid is formed from adjacent equal area isometric geozones surrounding a centrally positioned geozone as a grid center that includes the location of the IP address and wherein each geozone has a respective unique geozone designator.

The mobile media communication system also includes a faceting searcher . The searcher is configured to be in communication with the query entity extractor and to receive the shallow parsed request or query or message and to use the shallow parsed extracted entities to enable a faceted search of predetermined category domains. Each of the domains includes at least navigationally faceted items services and locations which are or which may be relevant to the requests or queries. Faceted searching as enabled by the searcher includes generating auto selected items services and locations from the data in the predetermined and navigationally faceted category domains.

The faceting searcher is further configured to generate a one to one and or one to many category array for each extracted entity. The category arrays associate to each extracted entity one or more categories of the navigationally faceted items services and locations in predetermined category domains. The faceting searcher may also generate with the location and extracted entities and associated category arrays a conflated query array that includes the extracted entities the category array and a query confidence probability for each category array element. The query confidence probability is calculated to represent the likelihood that any particular element of the conflated query array is responsive to the queries and requests or message .

In further variations of these configurations the faceting searcher of the system may also be adapted to search the previously described host network site repository and server and a plurality of network sites with the grid and conflated query array and to retrieve one or more network site keys within the grid perimeter and an associated relevancy probability which is calculated as a function of the number of retrieved network site keys that have associated categories or category data identifiers which match and or are relevant to those of the category arrays of the conflated query.

The modified arrangements of mobile medial communication system also include the media server which is described elsewhere herein to be in communication with the faceting searcher and directory search monitor . Here as with other variations the media server is configured to retrieve and communicate targeted media having a geozone identifiers that are within the grid perimeter and b categories that match at least one of the category arrays of the conflated query.

Similar to other adaptations of the system the host network site repository and server is also in communication with the media server and the faceting searcher . In this variation the repository and server is configured to retrieve from the network site repository one or more network sites that match respectively the one or more network keys . One or more of the host network site repository and server and the media server generate one or more composited data bundles which embed the targeted media with the one or more network sites . The one or more of the conflated query array and the one or more composited data bundles are then communicated in response to the requests or queries or messages .

The mobile media communication system also contemplates alternatively preferred configurations that communicate the responsive bundles and conflated queries in response to the query and also in response to a predetermined sequence of unrelated or non request or non query operations such as for purposes of generating targeted media for other media distribution and communications systems. The one or more conflated query array may be adapted to include sending the one or more conflated query array and the composited data bundles a in reply to the query and b also to at least one of an entity or device D S M and a network site operator NSO as part of one or more push notifications .

In alternative configuration of the system the push notifications are adapted to be communicated between the mobile media communication system and various entities and devices D S M and other systems and entities such as network site operators external media sources and others. The push notifications may wrap embed in data streams and translate media into various formats such as JSON BSON COM HTML XML and many other target formats. The push notifications may also include text and other media and may include messages message replies data audio imagery video and other data to be communicated between devices and entities D S M operators NSO external media sources EMS and other recipients.

In further variations of the mobile media communication system an enterprise media controller is included and coupled to the various components of system . The enterprise media controller is configured to enable additional control of the distribution of media and can enable a network site operator NSO to upload and modify various media content and related parameters including geographic data category data identifier media size position data push tag data and related media parameters.

Also contemplated and enabled by system is an external media communication capability that can import and export media to and from other media communication and distribution systems. For example the mobile media communication system can be coupled to an external media server EMS such as informational websites that may include for example without limitation weather.gov espn.com nasa.gov cnn.com foxnews.com wsj.com and marketing media websites such as Google s Adsense Amazon s Product Ads Affiliate Marketing Adversal Propeller Ads Media PopAds Infolinks and many other media sources.

Many challenges can be encountered in attempts to retrieve and distribute external media and the mobile media communication system contemplates various enabling capabilities to overcome such possible problems. One such solution includes external media wrapper which is configured to receive external media from server EMS and to redistribute such to devices or entities D S M and network site operators NSO and other external media recipients.

The external media wrapper is configured to receive and wrap or embed such external media in a compatible data stream that may also include composited data bundles . For example the external media wrapper may wrap the received external media in an HTML iFrame or similarly architected wrapper when redistributing external media to HTML compatible devices. Other types of data stream constructs are also contemplated for use with media wrapper .

Additional arrangements of system contemplates the host network site repository and server arranged in communication with the media server and the faceting searcher . These components and are configured to receive a response or more than one response and or message to the one or more push notifications from an entity or the entities or devices D S M ESM and to communicate the response and or messages to the network site operator NSO.

The host network site repository and server and other components such as may also be configured to receive a response and or message to the one or more push notifications from the network site operator NSO and to communicate the response and or message to an entity or the entities and devices D S M. In these configurations the push notifications and the responses and or messages enable greatly enhanced and targeted messaging between one or a plurality of the entities devices D S M and even the NSO.

The requests or queries or messages received by the mobile media communications system in some variations also may include a no geo limit parameter. For example if a request or query or messages is received and expressly does not want to limit responses to a geographic area then the no geo limit parameter is communicated to enable media to be communicated in reply from system without being limited to any particular geographic region. In this configuration the geofencer is further configured to lookup a geographic region such as an entire state country or region of the world in response to the no geo limit parameter and to generate the geofence grid perimeter to surround that larger area geographic region.

In this variations of the mobile media communications system the previously described directory search monitor may be incorporated as part of in place of and or operable in combination with the faceting searcher . As with other arrangements of the system the directory search monitor is configured to search the network site repository and server and a plurality of network sites with the grid and conflated query array and to retrieve the one or more network site keys and to generate the associated relevancy probability calculated as a function of the network site keys having a number of categories matching those of the category arrays of the conflated query.

In this variation the media server is in communication with both the faceting searcher and directory search monitor and is configured similarly to prior arrangements to retrieve targeted media having geozone identifiers that are within the grid perimeter and categories that match at least one of the category arrays of the conflated query and to embed the retrieved targeted media in a data wrapper. The instant configuration is similarly arranged with the host network server in communication with the media server and the faceting searcher as well as the directory search monitor .

In any of the various embodiments and configurations the system components may be configured to perform one or more capabilities functions and operations of any of the other components. For example the host network server or any other component may be further configured to perform the functions and capabilities of one or more or all of the system components including for example and purposes of illustration the directory search monitor the mobile entity monitor the media server the geocoder the NW site repository and or any of the other servers engines and components.

The above description refers to systems methods components elements nodes or features being in communication together. As used herein unless expressly stated otherwise use of these terms and words must be understood to mean that one system method component element node module feature is directly or indirectly joined to and or communicates with another either electronically mechanically or in some similar way that enables cooperative operation.

Further even though the various described implementations figures illustrations and drawings depict representative examples and arrangements of components elements devices and features many different additional variations arrangements modifications and intervening components elements devices and features may also be present in further exemplary implementations that are contemplated by the present disclosure.

Terms words and phrases used in this document and variations thereof unless otherwise expressly stated must be construed as open ended as opposed to limiting. For example the term including should be understood to mean including without limitation or similar meanings the term example is used to loosely describe illustrative instances of the item being described but is not an exhaustive exclusive or limiting list and adjectives such as conventional traditional normal standard known and terms with similar meanings are not intended to be construed to limit the description to a given example time period or to an exemplary item commercially available in the market as of a specific date and time period.

Instead these descriptions are crafted to be understood by those having knowledge skill and ability in the relevant fields of technology and to include conventional traditional normal or standard technologies that may be available now and at any time in the future in some improved and modified form. Similarly a group of words described and joined with the conjunction and or the disjunctive or should be understood only as exemplary and representative but not exclusive groups and not as requiring that only or each and every one of those described items must be or must not be present in the group. Rather use of such conjunctives and disjunctives must be understood to mean and or unless expressly stated otherwise.

Similarly a group of words linked with the conjunction or must not be understood as requiring mutual exclusivity among that group but rather must also be understood as meaning and or unless expressly stated otherwise. Also although words items elements or components of this disclosure are described or claimed in the singular the plural is also intended and contemplated to be within the scope of such a description unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. The presence or absence of broadening words and phrases such as one or more at least but not limited to or other like phrases in some instances must not be understood to mean that narrower meanings are implied intended or required.

