---

title: Manufacturing methods for a transparent conductive oxide on a flexible substrate
abstract: An electrochromic device is provided. The device includes a substrate and an electrochromic stack on the substrate. The stack includes a first set of bus bars, a first transparent conductive layer, at least one electrochromic layer, a second transparent conductive layer, and a second set of bus bars, wherein at least one of the first transparent conductive layer or the second transparent conductive layer includes resistivity that varies by horizontal location according to a resistivity profile. In some embodiments the resistivity profile has a vertical component that may or may not be in addition to the horizontal component. Various embodiments of these materials can be tuned as to profiles of vertical resistance and horizontal sheet resistance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09658508&OS=09658508&RS=09658508
owner: Kinestral Technologies, Inc.
number: 09658508
owner_city: South San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160112
---
The present invention generally relates to switchable electrochromic devices with flexible substrates such as for architectural windows capable of coordinated switching over substantially their entire area or a selected subregion of their entire area. More particularly and in one embodiment the present invention is directed to switchable electrochromic multi layer devices with flexible substrates particularly for large area rectangular windows for architectural applications that switch in a spatially coordinated manner over substantially their entire area or a selected subregion of their entire area optionally these are of non uniform shape optionally they switch synchronously i.e. uniformly over substantially their entire area or a selected subregion of their entire area or in a coordinated but nonsynchronous manner e.g. from side to side or top to bottom from a first optical state e.g. a transparent state to a second optical state e.g. a reflective or colored state.

Electrochromic devices such as electrochromic windows or automotive electrochromic rearview mirrors change transmissivity with application of voltage and current. The process relies on electrochemical redox reduction or gain of electrons and decrease in oxidation state and oxidation or loss of electrons and increase in oxidation state reactions of a material and is reversible. Cathodic electrochromic materials color or darken cathodically by a reduction process i.e. when gaining electrons and bleach when giving up electrons. Anodic electrochromic materials color or darken anodically by an oxidation process i.e. when giving up electrons and bleach when gaining electrons. Ion transmissive i.e. ion conductive materials allow ions to travel from one type of electrochromic material to another. Some electrochromic stacks use a cathodic electrochromic material an ion transmissive material and an anodic electrochromic material.

Electrochromic materials are often slow to change transmissivity and may do so unevenly in large devices such as electrochromic windows. Gradual non uniform coloring or switching is a common problem associated with large area electrochromic devices. This problem commonly referred to as the iris effect is typically the result of the voltage drop through the transparent conductive coatings providing electrical contact to one side or both sides of the device. For example when a voltage is initially applied to the device the potential is typically the greatest in the vicinity of the edge of the device where the voltage is applied and the least at the center of the device as a result there may be a significant difference between the transmissivity near the edge of the device and the transmissivity at the center of the device. Over time however the difference in cell potential between the center and edge decreases and as a result the difference in transmissivity at the center and edge of the device decreases. In such circumstances the electrochromic medium will typically display non uniform transmissivity by initially changing the transmissivity of the device in the vicinity of the applied potential with the transmissivity gradually and progressively changing towards the center of the device as the switching progresses. While the iris effect is most commonly observed in relatively large devices it also can be present in smaller devices that have correspondingly higher resistivity conducting layers.

Another problem with electrochromic materials is that manufacturing methods for electrochromic glass may not be suitable for other materials especially flexible materials as substrates especially since glass has a relatively high melting point as compared to such materials. In particular standard transparent electrically conductive materials used in electrochromic devices e.g. transparent conductive oxides TCOs such as indium tin oxide or fluorine doped tin oxide require high processing temperatures to achieve a combination of low electrical resistance and high transparency. When these standard materials are employed on flexible substrates with limited processing temperatures then the resistance is higher and or the transparency is higher. The higher resistance of the electrically conductive layer exacerbates the iris effect because the resistance between the edge and center of the device is larger.

Therefore there is a need in the art for a solution which overcomes the drawbacks described above including manufacturing electrochromic devices with spatially coordinated switching on flexible substrates.

In some embodiments described in this disclosure an electrochromic device is provided including at least one flexible substrate and an electrochromic stack on the substrate. The stack includes a first set of bus bars a first transparent conductive layer at least one electrochromic layer a second transparent conductive layer and a second set of bus bars.

In some cases at least one of the first transparent conductive layer or the second transparent conductive layer has low resistance and high transmission. At least one of the first transparent conductive layer or the second transparent conductive layer can include conductive wires with small diameters which do not significantly impact the optical transmission of the layer.

In some cases at least one of the first transparent conductive layer or the second transparent conductive layer includes sheet resistance that varies by horizontal location according to a sheet resistance profile. In some embodiments the first and or second transparent conductive layer includes one or more layers of materials with different resistivity and the resistance profile has a vertical component that may or may not be in addition to the horizontal component. Various embodiments of the materials making up the electrically conductive layer s can be tuned as to profiles of vertical electrical resistance and horizontal sheet resistance.

The electrochromic and ion conducting materials in the electrochromic stack may also be processed at low temperatures to be compatible with flexible substrates and the electrically conductive materials in the stack. In some cases the electrochromic materials are deposited from a particulate slurry. In some cases the ion conductor has a polymer matrix.

Methods are also disclosed for producing electrochromic devices with low resistance and high light transmissive electrically conductive layers on flexible substrates. Methods are also disclosed for producing electrochromic devices on flexible substrates where at least one of the first and or second transparent conductive layer includes sheet resistance that varies by horizontal location according to a sheet resistance profile. Methods are also disclosed for producing electrochromic devices roll to roll i.e. roll to roll or R2R .

Other aspects and advantages of the embodiments will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the principles of the described embodiments.

A variety of materials and manufacturing techniques are herein disclosed for making electrochromic devices and particularly transparent conductive oxides and other transparent conductive layers on various substrates including flexible substrates. In some cases these materials and manufacturing techniques are suitable for use on large or small areas of glass as a substrate and in some cases are suitable for use on large or small areas of flexible substrates. Some examples of flexible substrates are plastic substrates made from materials such as polycarbonates polyacrylics polyurethanes urethane carbonate copolymers polysulfones polyimides polyacrylates polyethers polyester polyethylenes polyalkenes polyimides polysulfides polyvinylacetates and cellulose based polymers.

Transparent conductive layers with uniform horizontal sheet resistance and uniform vertical resistance are known for use in electrochromic devices. The sheet resistance R of a layer is defined as the bulk resistivity p divided by the thickness t of the layer. In other words R t and layers with higher bulk resistivity and or that are thinner will generally have higher sheet resistances. However many of the materials typically used for glass substrates require high processing temperatures to reduce the sheet resistance and improve the transmission. For example transparent conductive oxides TCOs are commonly used as electrically conductive layers for electrochromic devices. TCOs are typically deposited on glass by sputtering with substrate temperatures greater than the maximum tolerable temperatures of most flexible substrates e.g. greater than 300 C. . TCOs that are deposited on flexible substrates with lower than optimal deposition temperatures typically have inferior sheet resistance and or transmission compared to TCOs on glass which leads to exacerbated iris effects.

Electrochromic devices on flexible substrates can employ alternative transparent conductive materials that are be deposited at lower temperatures and still achieve low sheet resistance and high transmission. Some examples of low temperature low sheet resistance transparent conductive materials are wire meshes e.g. copper wire meshes nanowire meshes e.g. silver nanowire meshes carbon nanotube meshes particulate coatings e.g. TCO particles and nanoparticulate coatings e.g. nanographite coatings and graphene coatings .

In some cases the low temperature low sheet resistance transparent conductive material can be deposited by solution deposition techniques. Some solution deposition techniques include slot die coating and spray coating however many solution deposition techniques could be suitable. In some cases the low temperature low sheet resistance transparent conductive material can be deposited with a binder e.g. a polymeric material which serves to provide mechanical stability and or adhesion to the layer. In some cases the low temperature low sheet resistance transparent conductive material can be deposited without a binder.

In some cases electrochromic devices on flexible substrates can employ composite transparent conductive layers. For instance a thin layer of a TCO can be deposited at low temperature and a low temperature low sheet resistance transparent conductive material can be deposited on top of the TCO. Some examples of such composite layered structures are a thin layer e.g. 10 to 100 nm of indium tin oxide deposited at temperatures tolerable by the flexible substrate and a silver nanowire mesh solution deposited on top.

Processing flexible plastic substrates is limited by the melting point of the substrate which is typically lower than the melting temperature of glass. Also the requirement for flexibility may lead to thinner materials to avoid cracking of the material during flexure. These low temperature and or thinner materials typically have higher sheet resistance than electrically conductive layers on glass substrates. For these reasons prior attempts at producing electrochromic devices on flexible substrates have often been limited to smaller area devices and attempts at larger area devices have shown exaggerated bull s eye effect i.e. iris effect . Some embodiments of the presently disclosed materials are on large area flexible substrates such as a web used in roll to roll processing and can be cut to various sizes. These embodiments have greatly reduced or eliminated bull s eye effect as a result of the reduced sheet resistance offered by the low temperature low sheet resistance transparent conductive materials described herein in one or more transparent conductive layers.

Alternatively the iris effect can be mitigated by varying the vertical resistance and or horizontal sheet resistance that varies according to horizontal location in transparent conductive layers. Presently disclosed materials and manufacturing techniques allow control of vertical resistance and or horizontal sheet resistance that varies according to horizontal location in transparent conductive layers. Various embodiments are described to tune the profiles of vertical resistance and or horizontal sheet resistance of transparent conductive layers on glass and flexible substrates to decrease or eliminate the bull s eye effect i.e. the iris effect which result in a more uniform change in transmissivity across even large structures as compared to electrochromic devices made with uniform transparent conductive layers. In various embodiments these profiles have variations in vertical resistance and or horizontal sheet resistance over a range of two to one ten to one one hundred to one or other range between these ranges or outside of these ranges as specific to tuning. It should be appreciated that a transparent conductive layer can be a compound layer having multiple layers and or multiple materials. Similarly an electrochromic layer can be a compound layer having multiple layers and or multiple materials.

An upper substrate transparent conductive layer and bus bars structure is formed in a similar manner and has similar characteristics except that the lower structure and the upper structure are aligned such that the thinnest region of the transparent conductive layer of the upper substrate aligns with the bus bar on the lower substrate and vice versa. That is the thickest portion of the upper transparent conductive layer lines up with the thinnest portion of the lower transparent conductive layer and the thinnest portion of the upper transparent conductive layer lines up with the thickest portion of the lower transparent conductive layer . Upper bus bars and lower bus bars are interleaved so that no upper bus bar aligns with a lower bus bar . In other words each upper bus bar is between two lower bus bars and each lower bus bar is between two upper bus bars when viewed from above. Interleaving of bus bars and a pattern of material of varying horizontal sheet resistance and vertical resistance between bus bars could repeat across many multiples of bus bars .

To complete an electrochromic stack a cathodic electrochromic material an ion conductive layer and an anodic electrochromic material not shown in but see and are layered between the lower structure and the upper structure described above in one embodiment. Alternatively the cathodic and anodic electrochromic material and the ion conductor may be a single mixed layer which may be a particle based material.

In some cases the down web direction in is in the plane of the paper not out of plane . In other words in some cases the roll is moving from left to right or from right to left in the figure. In some cases the upper and lower rolls would be cut to bisect the bus bars and to form the individual devices. This would create a final device with two bus bars at opposite edges of the device with one bus bar creating an electrical connection to the electrically conductive layer of one substrate and the second bus bar creating an electrical connection to the electrically conductive layer of the other substrate.

Sheet resistance of these materials can be measured or simulated in various ways and varies according to horizontal location. Horizontal sheet resistance can be measured by placing probes at differing horizontal locations on the transparent conductive layer . A first horizontal sheet resistance close to a bus bar is lower than a second horizontal sheet resistance further from the bus bar and both of these are lower than a third horizontal sheet resistance midway between the bus bars . This is because the bulk resistivity of the transparent conductive layers is approximately constant as a function of horizontal location and the thickness of the layer s varies as a function of horizontal location. The thickness of the transparent conductive layer is thicker close to the bus bar which gives rise to lower horizontal sheet resistance and thinner midway between the bus bars which gives rise to higher horizontal sheet resistance. A profile of the horizontal sheet resistance of the transparent conductive layer of the lower structure goes from lower horizontal sheet resistance to higher horizontal sheet resistance to lower horizontal sheet resistance from one bus bar to the next bus bar . A profile of the horizontal sheet resistance of the transparent conductive layer of the upper structure is similar.

Vertical resistance can be measured by placing probes at differing vertical locations on the transparent conductive layer e.g. at an upper surface and a lower surface aligned at a single horizontal location. A first vertical resistance close to a bus bar is higher than a second vertical resistance and both of these are higher than a third vertical resistance midway between the bus bars . This is because the thickness of the transparent conductive layer is thicker close to the bus bar which gives rise to a higher vertical resistance and thinner midway between the bus bars which gives rise to a lower vertical resistance.

In different cases the thickness profile of the transparent conductive layer s e.g. and or in can be tuned in various ways to produce various voltage profiles current flows and effects on the rate of change of transmissivity of an electrochromic device at various horizontal locations.

The thickness horizontal sheet resistance and vertical sheet resistance can all affect current flow in an electrochromic device. The degree to which they affect current flow can depend on multiple factors such as the bulk resistivity of material s used in the transparent conductive layer maximum thickness minimum thickness ratio of maximum thickness to minimum thickness of the layer and thickness profile of the transparent conductive layer in various directions parallel to the substrate i.e. relative flatness or curvature of the shape of the thickness profile relative to horizontal location .

With reference to the structure depicted in one of the principles that can be applied to a completed electrochromic device is to have complementary regions of lateral sheet resistance aligned in the lower structure and the upper structure . For example a region of lower horizontal lateral sheet resistance in the lower structure aligns with a region of higher horizontal sheet resistance in the upper structure . A region of higher horizontal sheet resistance in the lower structure aligns with a region of lower horizontal sheet resistance in the upper structure . Horizontal sheet resistance gradients are complementary as well in that the horizontal sheet resistance has a decreasing gradient in direction in one section of the lower structure that opposes a section in the upper structure of increasing horizontal sheet resistance gradient in the same direction and an increasing horizontal sheet resistance gradient in a further section and direction of the lower structure opposes a decreasing horizontal sheet resistance gradient in a corresponding section and direction of the upper structure . This principle can also be observed in the embodiments shown in and in other geometries not shown.

For a rectangular top electrically conductive layer and a rectangular bottom electrically conductive layer where the sides of the rectangle are oriented in the x and y directions a contact bus bar to the upper electrically conductive layer at a position x 0 and a contact bus bar to the bottom electrically conductive layer at x x the relationship to provide a substantially uniform local cell potential is R x R x x x 1 where R x is the sheet resistance as a function of position of the top transparent conductive layer as a function of position and R x is the sheet resistance as a function of position of the lower transparent conductive layer as a function of position and where the sheet resistance of the upper and lower electrically conductive layers are substantially constant in the y direction for a given value of x. The sheet resistance of the top and bottom transparent conductive layers on flexible substrates can be tuned in various ways discussed herein in order to meet the above criteria and provide a substantially uniform local cell potential. This will in turn mitigate the iris effect on electrochromic devices including those manufactured on flexible substrates.

In addition to thickness the bulk resistivity of the transparent conductive layer can also be varied to achieve a given horizontal sheet resistance profile. In some cases the thickness of the layer can be substantially constant and the electrical properties of the material varied to adjust the bulk resistivity. In TCOs the doping density crystallinity composition or other material parameters are known to affect the bulk resistivity. Various deposition conditions source materials and post deposition treatments can be used to adjust the bulk resistivity and therefore adjust the horizontal sheet resistance. The materials conditions and treatments can be varied horizontally to create a sheet resistance that varies as a function of horizontal position.

In the embodiment shown in the horizontal sheet resistance has a gradient from left to right in the drawing. If the layer has a higher bulk resistivity than the layer then the horizontal sheet resistance is higher at the left end of the structure in the drawing and lower at the right end of the structure in the drawing. If the layer has a lower bulk resistivity than the layer then the horizontal sheet resistance is lower at the left end of the structure in the drawing and higher at the right end of the structure in the drawing. This pattern can be repeated readily.

In some cases layer and or can be made from a low temperature low sheet resistance transparent conductive material as described above. Some examples of the low temperature low sheet resistance transparent conductive material for the layer and or are wire meshes nanowire meshes or particle coatings.

In some cases one layer of a composite transparent conductive layer in this disclosure e.g layer can be made of islands that are physically separated from each other. In other cases both layers of a composite transparent conductive layer in this disclosure e.g. layers and can both be continuous and the features of each layer be connected by a thin film at the top or bottom of the layer. For example layer in can be made continuous through in the inclusion of a thin layer adjacent to the substrate connecting the depicted features. In the cases where layer is discontinuous i.e. composed of islands then naturally the sheet resistance is measured by contacting the continuous film e.g. layer in .

Note for this example and any other where patterns are included the vertical sheet resistance and or horizontal sheet resistance will vary considerably from point to point if measured at a location corresponding to a feature of one layer e.g. taller region of layer or to a spaces between features e.g. spaces between layer features however the vertical resistance will change in the described ways e.g. higher lower or U shaped if averaged over a local area encompassing a few silicon dioxide islands.

Note for this example and any other where patterns are included the vertical sheet resistance and or horizontal sheet resistance will vary considerably from point to point if measured at a location corresponding to a silicon dioxide island or to a location corresponding to the spaces between silicon dioxide however the vertical resistance will change in the described ways e.g. higher lower or U shaped if averaged over a local area encompassing a few silicon dioxide islands.

With reference to the relative resistivity and or conductivity of the various materials applied in the patterns described can be varied. For example a resistive or a conductive material could be substituted for an insulating material a conductive material could be substituted for a resistive material or an insulating material an insulating material could be substituted for a resistive material or a conductive material or a material or concentration of a material that is more conductive or less conductive or more resistive or less resistive could be used in various embodiments. Spacing thickness form factor e.g. long and narrow shorter and wider and so on can be varied. In all cases the combinations of layers and materials can be deposited on flexible substrates. In some cases the combinations of layers and materials can be deposited on flexible substrates via roll to roll processing.

Starting at the bottom the layers are as follows. A lower substrate has a lower transparent conductive layer patterned with a conductive or resistive layer a resistor layer in the embodiment shown . This controls the profile of lateral sheet resistance relative to horizontal location as in producing a gradient of lateral sheet resistance.

On top of these layers an anodic electrochromic material an ion conductive material and a cathodic electrochromic material are stacked. An upper conductive or resistive layer a resistor layer in the embodiment shown is patterned with an upper transparent conductive layer . This controls the profile of lateral sheet resistance relative to horizontal location as in producing a gradient of lateral sheet resistance albeit of complementary or opposite slope to the gradient of the lateral sheet resistance of the lower transparent conductive layer . All of this is topped by a substrate . In this embodiment the lower profile of lateral sheet resistance and the upper profile of lateral sheet resistance are complementary in a manner similar to the lateral sheet resistances of the structure shown in . Likewise repetition of the structure and the pattern of lateral sheet resistance variation relative to bus bars is related to that of . In other words the region of the lower transparent conductive layer with lower lateral sheet resistance e.g. the lower left corner of is near a lower bus bar and opposite to a region of the upper transparent conductive layer with higher lateral sheet resistance and no upper bus bar. A region of the lower transparent conductive layer with higher lateral sheet resistance e.g. the lower right corner of is away from any lower bus bar and opposite to a region of the upper transparent conductive layer with lower lateral sheet resistance and an upper bus bar.

It should be appreciated that in this and further embodiments these layers could be reversed i.e. turned upside down with respect to the drawing. The structure is independent of gravity or orientation of an electrochromic device relative to gravity and can be constructed in various ways in various embodiments. Various structures can be made by sequential depositions laminations or combinations thereof.

In alternative cases the bus bars can be connected to the other layer in the transparent conductive composite layers. Namely referring still to a bus bar see can be placed at the lower left in electrical contact with the lower transparent conductive layer and a bus bar see can be placed at the upper right in electrical contact with the upper transparent conductive layer providing that upper and lower layers are continuous and conductive .

In still other cases the upper and lower transparent conductive layers could be patterned to create sheet resistance profiles that vary with horizontal position similar to the structure depicted in . In these cases it would not be necessary to have a multiple layers making up the transparent conductive layers. The stack including an anodic electrochromic material an ion conductive material and a cathodic electrochromic material can be placed between the two transparent conductive layers and the whole structure can be sandwiched between two flexible substrates.

From bottom to top the layers in the structure depicted in are as follows. A substrate which could be glass or a flexible substrate has a first or lower transparent conductive layer on top. This is followed by the combined resistor layers with the vertical resistance profile as described above. Then the anodic electrochromic material the ion conductive material and the cathodic electrochromic material are stacked up. Above that are an upper transparent conducting layer and an upper substrate . Bus bar locations and repetition of the pattern are similar to those described when referring to

Starting at the bottom the layers are as follows. The substrate could be glass or a flexible substrate. The lower substrate has a lower transparent conductive layer patterned with a conductive or resistive layer a resistor layer in the embodiment shown . This controls the profile of lateral sheet resistance relative to horizontal location as in producing a gradient of lateral sheet resistance. Then two resistor layers are deposited and patterned so as to control vertical resistance relative to horizontal location as a variation of the structure shown in . These produce a U shaped profile of vertical resistance versus horizontal location similar to the profile produced by the structure in but through a differing mechanism.

On top of these layers an anodic electrochromic material an ion conductive material and a cathodic electrochromic material are stacked. An upper conductive or resistor layer a resistor layer in the embodiment shown is patterned with an upper transparent conductive layer . This controls the profile of lateral sheet resistance relative to horizontal location as in producing a gradient of lateral sheet resistance. All of this is topped by a substrate . Bus bar locations and repetition of the pattern are similar to those in

Next flexible substrates and manufacturing techniques for producing electrochromic devices on flexible substrates are discussed. Particular emphasis is made of roll to roll processing which can be economical for large volume production. Roll to roll processing is especially well suited to manufacturing layers and devices on flexible substrates. By controlling the web i.e. the roll in various ways materials in varied concentrations and thicknesses can be deposited on the substrate giving rise to the desired characteristics of the materials. Especially vertical resistance and horizontal sheet resistance of a material can be varied in the long direction along a web in various embodiments described below.

In various embodiments a complete electrochromic device starts with a substrate that is flexible and suitable for web processing e.g. a metal coated with an insulating layer a polymer or plastic material . A transparent conductive layer which can be a transparent conductive oxide in some embodiments is applied to the flexible substrate through either deposition or lamination in a roll to roll process. In some embodiments the transparent conductive layer is of uniform thickness and thus uniform horizontal sheet resistance i.e. no gradient . In some embodiments the transparent conductive oxide is patterned and has a resistive or conductive material added for example to form the structure with the layer that has the conductive layer and the conductive or resistive layer shown in or the lower layer that has the transparent conductive layer and the resistor layer atop the substrate of or . This could be performed using rolling photolithography or a stop and move roll to roll process with photolithography processing to momentarily stationary sections of a web .

Embodiments with a uniform thickness transparent conductive layer could have a patterned resistor layer applied next using rolling photolithography or the above described stop and move roll to roll process for example to form the structure shown in and the resistor layer s in . The embodiment shown in could have patterned resistor layer s applied atop the earlier applied patterned resistor layer s using the rolling photolithography or stop and move roll to roll process. As an alternative the above described structures could have the resistor layer s applied by lamination. Any of these devices can then have an anodic electrochromic material layer an ion conductive material layer and a cathodic electrochromic material layer applied by deposition lamination or a combination of these. An upper substrate e.g. a flexible upper substrate with a uniform transparent conductive layer which could be a transparent conductive oxide in some embodiments can then be applied by lamination to the cathodic electrochromic material layer or deposition for example to produce the structure shown in or variations thereof. An upper substrate e.g. a flexible substrate could have a patterned resistor layer s produced on a web using rolling photolithography or a stop and move process and this could then be applied by lamination to produce the structure shown in . Similarly an upper substrate could have a patterned resistor layer s produced on a web and this could be applied by lamination to produce the structure shown in . Variations of these structures could be produced upside down i.e. by starting with a flexible substrate at what is shown as the top of these diagrams.

In any of the above examples a vertical resistance that has a gradient dependent upon horizontal location relative to the substrate can be produced by materials processing as described above regarding as applied to a web in a roll to roll process. Lamination may be particularly useful to bring together two materials one of which has a horizontal sheet resistance varying as a gradient with respect to horizontal location and the other of which has a vertical resistance varying as a gradient with respect to horizontal location relative to a substrate. Combinations of depositions processes and laminating can produce further embodiments of the structures depicted in .

To determine which ones of many possible combinations of features and parameter values produce optimal electrochromic devices a parametric variation experiment based methodology can be devised and applied. For example once dimensions or a range of dimensions for a desired electrochromic device are determined samples can be prepared with structures that vary in one feature or vary in one parameter value for a specified feature. These can be compared and a next round of samples prepared that varies a differing feature or parameter. Two or more parameters or features can be varied in a matrix of samples and this methodology allows rapid progress in terms of homing in on a desirable combination of features and parameter values. Economic analysis durability analysis and defect analysis can be applied to determine which of multiple competing manufacturing techniques produces an optimal product with the desired features and parameter values at an optimal price. With the above methodology variations in horizontal sheet resistance gradients and profiles vertical resistance gradients and profiles resistive conductive or insulating materials concentrations of these and the various structures that apply each of these can be varied independently or in a matrix and tuned in successive sample runs. In parallel manufacturing techniques can be developed for promising features with the parameters applied to sample runs.

One or more resistance profiles are tuned or determined so as to decrease or eliminate bull s eye effect in an electrochromic device in an action . This can include tuning a profile of a horizontal sheet resistance of a material relative to horizontal location or position tuning a profile of a vertical resistance of a material relative to horizontal location or position or both. The tuning can be performed by simulation or empirically by making batch lots with variations and determining which specimens have optimal performance or both. A gradient profile for horizontal sheet resistance opposed complementary gradient profiles for horizontal sheet resistance and a U shaped profile for vertical resistance in various combinations are described herein as yielding reduction or elimination of bull s eye effect.

A transparent conductive layer is arranged on a substrate in an action . Bus bars are arranged in an action . The bus bars in this lower section are electrically connected to the lower transparent conductive layer and are spaced apart by a predetermined amount.

A cathodic electrochromic layer is arranged in an action . An ion conductive layer is arranged in an action . An anodic electrochromic layer is arranged in an action . In variations one or more other electrochromic layers could be substituted.

A further transparent conductive layer is arranged in an action . This is the upper transparent conductive layer. These layers the lower transparent conductive layer the cathodic electrochromic layer the ion conductive layer the anodic electrochromic layer and the upper transparent conductive layer could be reversed in sequence. Together these form an electrochromic stack.

A pattern of varying horizontal sheet resistance and or vertical resistance is established relative to one or both transparent conductive layers in an action . This pattern is according to one or more tuned resistance profiles as determined in the action . Action could be performed in conjunction with action and or action or could include an extra layer on top of or beneath one or both of the transparent conductive layers. The pattern of varying horizontal sheet resistance and or vertical resistance could include varying horizontal sheet resistance and or varying vertical resistance with respect to horizontal location or position.

Further bus bars can be arranged as can a further substrate in various embodiments. Arranging the various layers materials and patterns in the layers can be based on the various embodiments disclosed herein and can apply various methods for making the various layers materials and patterns as disclosed herein.

Detailed illustrative embodiments are disclosed herein. However specific functional details disclosed herein are merely representative for purposes of describing embodiments. Embodiments may however be embodied in many alternate forms and should not be construed as limited to only the embodiments set forth herein.

It should be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various steps or calculations these steps or calculations should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one step or calculation from another. For example a first calculation could be termed a second calculation and similarly a second step could be termed a first step without departing from the scope of this disclosure. As used herein the term and or and the symbol includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. Therefore the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions acts noted may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two figures shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

With the above embodiments in mind it should be understood that the embodiments might employ various computer implemented operations involving data stored in computer systems. These operations are those requiring physical manipulation of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. Further the manipulations performed are often referred to in terms such as producing identifying determining or comparing. Any of the operations described herein that form part of the embodiments are useful machine operations. The embodiments also relate to a device or an apparatus for performing these operations. The apparatus can be specially constructed for the required purpose or the apparatus can be a general purpose computer selectively activated or configured by a computer program stored in the computer. In particular various general purpose machines can be used with computer programs written in accordance with the teachings herein or it may be more convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the required operations.

A module an application a layer an agent or other method operable entity could be implemented as hardware firmware or a processor executing software or combinations thereof. It should be appreciated that where a software based embodiment is disclosed herein the software can be embodied in a physical machine such as a controller. For example a controller could include a first module and a second module. A controller could be configured to perform various actions e.g. of a method an application a layer or an agent.

The embodiments can also be embodied as computer readable code on a tangible non transitory computer readable medium. The computer readable medium is any data storage device that can store data which can be thereafter read by a computer system. Examples of the computer readable medium include hard drives network attached storage NAS read only memory random access memory CD ROMs CD Rs CD RWs magnetic tapes and other optical and non optical data storage devices. The computer readable medium can also be distributed over a network coupled computer system so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion. Embodiments described herein may be practiced with various computer system configurations including hand held devices tablets microprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The embodiments can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a wire based or wireless network.

Although the method operations were described in a specific order it should be understood that other operations may be performed in between described operations described operations may be adjusted so that they occur at slightly different times or the described operations may be distributed in a system which allows the occurrence of the processing operations at various intervals associated with the processing.

Various units circuits or other components may be described or claimed as configured to perform a task or tasks. In such contexts the phrase configured to is used to connote structure by indicating that the units circuits components include structure e.g. circuitry that performs the task or tasks during operation. As such the unit circuit component can be said to be configured to perform the task even when the specified unit circuit component is not currently operational e.g. is not on . The units circuits components used with the configured to language include hardware for example circuits memory storing program instructions executable to implement the operation etc. Reciting that a unit circuit component is configured to perform one or more tasks is expressly intended not to invoke 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph for that unit circuit component. Additionally configured to can include generic structure e.g. generic circuitry that is manipulated by software and or firmware e.g. an FPGA or a general purpose processor executing software to operate in manner that is capable of performing the task s at issue. Configured to may also include adapting a manufacturing process e.g. a semiconductor fabrication facility to fabricate devices e.g. integrated circuits that are adapted to implement or perform one or more tasks.

The foregoing description for the purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the embodiments and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the embodiments and various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

