---

title: System and method bridging cloud based user interfaces
abstract: Systems and apparatus providing UI functionality at a client device via a video decoder/renderer operates to decode a compressed video stream bearing UI imagery and a messaging proxy is adapted to process user interaction data indicative of a local function to invoke an application programming interface (API) associated with the local function in order to select an appropriate channel of the decoded compressed video stream.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09456240&OS=09456240&RS=09456240
owner: CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS OPERATING, LLC
number: 09456240
owner_city: St. Louis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160201
---
This application is a continuation of Ser. No. 14 605 077 filed on Jan. 26 2015 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD BRIDGING CLOUD BASED USER INTERFACES which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 963 594 filed on Aug. 9 2013 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD BRIDGING CLOUD BASED USER INTERFACES which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 681 253 filed Aug. 9 2012 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD BRIDGING CLOUD BASED USER INTERFACES which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The invention relates to the user interfaces UIs and more particularly but not exclusively server centric UIs adapted to efficiently process clickstream data indicative of local functions.

Network operators such as cable television operators use various information distribution systems to deliver television video on demand VOD and other video related services to subscribers via set top terminals STTs or set top boxes STBs . For STBs having differing levels of capability e.g. a heterogeneous system possibly from different manufacturers user interface UI look and feel functionality and the like provided via one model e.g. a high capability STB may be different than that provided by another model e.g. a low capability STB . As such there may be poor consistency of user experience across the operator s subscriber footprint.

Network operators may achieve a consistent user interface by deploying additional applications or widgets with UI functionality using application environments such as OCAP OpenCable Application Platform Tru2way interactive digital cable services EBIF Enhanced TV Binary Interchange Format ACAP Advanced Common Application Platform MHP Multimedia Home Platform and the like. Full program guides have been implemented that are Java based and remain as large downloaded and installed files at the STB which necessarily requires significant STB memory and processing resources .

Disadvantageously these UIs are implemented as add on features rather than viable avenues to fully replicate a TV guide video on demand navigation system DVR management screen and the like. Further it is likely that older STBs will not be able to support such a deployment.

Network operators may achieve a consistent user interface by encoding still or moving UI imagery within an MPEG video stream where key presses are relayed to a server for processing and changes in the UI are rendered through changes in the imagery provide via the MPEG stream. These systems depend on a UI client application resident at the STB which relays the key strokes to the server and is responsible for communicating with an underlying traditional program guide in order to provide channel tune commands DVR related commands video on demand requests and the like.

Disadvantageously this type of solution still requires a traditional guide and in fact is dependent on that guide for some of the basic TV functions such that the limitations of existing guides are not circumvented e.g. if the existing guide does not expose APIs for listing DVR assets then the UI client application will not have access to them . Some traditional guide screens will need to be forced to display where the traditional guide requires control e.g. parental controls entry video on demand purchase confirmations and the like . Further for STBs without broadband connections e.g. embedded cable modems the upstream traffic generated by the UI client application sending key presses to the server creates significant network contention on the cable plant. It is also noted that the unicast nature of this type of UI implementation does not scale well.

Various deficiencies in the prior art are addressed by systems apparatus and methods providing UI functionality at a client device via a messaging proxy adapted to cooperate with video decoder renderer. The video decoder renderer operates to decode a compressed video stream bearing UI imagery to provide corresponding video streams or signals suitable for use by a presentation device. The messaging proxy is adapted to process tuner commands DVR commands and or other commands in response to user interaction with presented UI imagery such that local functions may be implemented without server interaction.

To facilitate understanding identical reference numerals have been used where possible to designate identical elements that are common to the figures.

The various embodiments provide user interfaces UIs served from remote elements in a network such as a cable network head end service provider server generically the cloud which allow cable television operators and other network operators to deliver robust content features and services quickly and easily to both next generation set top boxes and existing set top boxes so that users of both types of set top boxes are provided with a consistent user experience. Thus while the invention will be primarily described within the context of a heterogeneous interactive information distribution system it should be noted that the invention may be advantageously adapted to any system including information receivers STBs STTs and the like requiring a user interface UI function such as a digital television electronic programming guide EPG video on demand VOD client digital video recorder DVR and the like.

Generally speaking various embodiments provide UI functionality at a client device via a messaging proxy adapted to cooperate with video decoder renderer. The video decoder renderer operates to decode a compressed video stream bearing UI imagery to provide corresponding video streams or signals suitable for use by a presentation device. The messaging proxy is adapted to process tuner commands DVR commands and or other commands in response to user interaction with presented UI imagery such that local functions may be implemented without server interaction.

Various embodiments of the image may be implemented within the context of a standard definition STB high definition STB DVR a set top terminal with or without a broadband connection and messaging proxy from MPEG UI to operating system OS an OS abstraction mechanism one or more dedicated sockets for external systems a state or usage reporting mechanism a cache programmatic merging of Quadrature Amplitude Modulated QAM video and MPEG UI or other UIs and so on.

While generally described with respect to MPEG video encoding and packet transport formats and the like it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other video encoding and or transport formats may be utilized within the context of the various embodiments.

Any of the various embodiments discussed herein may be implemented within the context of an information distribution system such as a telecommunications cable television satellite or other network adapted according to the embodiments a system according to any of the embodiments hardware and or software according to any of the embodiments a set top box and related server transport entities according to any of the embodiments and so on.

The system of is depicted as a heterogeneous system in that subscriber equipment may comprise subscriber terminals also known as set top terminals STTs or set top boxes STBs of differing capability with respect to control processing bandwidth and or graphics processing generally speaking differing capabilities in terms of processing resources and memory resources. However subscriber equipment capable of implementing the various embodiments described herein includes a basic or minimal level of functionality such as an ability to decode an MPEG 2 transport stream including video information and associated audio information and process the decoded video and associated audio information to produce video and audio streams or signals suitable for use by a presentation device.

The distribution network may comprise one or more of a Hybrid Fiber Coax HFC for cable optical network IP network Plain Old Telephone System POTS for ADSL terrestrial broadcast system like MMDS or LMDS or satellite distribution system like DBS.

The service provider equipment comprises a user interface UI asset storage module a content storage module a session controller and a transport processor .

The UI asset storage module is used to store UI assets such as encoded UI assets E or unencoded UI assets U. The encoded UI assets E may comprise still or moving UI imagery e.g. UI screens encoded according to MPEG or other video encoding formats. The UI assets may be stored in several forms such as unencoded encoded and but not transport packetized encoded and transport packetized and the like. In various embodiments the UI assets are stored as transport packets according to a specific protocol such as MPEG 2 transport packets. In this manner transport encoded UI asset packets may be easily multiplexed into a transport stream being formed.

The content storage module is used to store content such as movies television programs and other information offerings. The content may be stored in several forms such as unencoded encoded and but not transport packetized encoded and transport packetized and the like. In various embodiments the content is stored as transport packets according to a specific protocol such as MPEG 2 transport packets. In this manner transport encoded content may be easily multiplexed into a transport stream being formed.

The transport processor combines or multiplexes content and or UI asset data as needed to provide an output data stream for transmission to a subscriber via a forward application transport channel FATC within the distribution network . In various embodiments the transport processor performs transport packetizing functions for content and or UI asset data as needed in conformance with the FATC transport protocols. In various embodiments the transport processor also performs video encoding functions such as MPEG encoding of unencoded UI assets.

The session controller or session manager provides session control of the information flowing to and from the UI asset storage module and content storage module . The session controller provider controls communications between the server equipment and subscriber equipment such as between a cable system head end and one or more set top terminals. The session controller produces an asset storage control signal ASC for controlling and communicating with the UI asset storage module a content storage control signal CSC for controlling and communicating with the content storage module and a transport processor control signal TPC for controlling and communicating with the transport processor .

The session controller sends data such as commands encryption keys and the like to subscriber equipment via a forward data channel FDC . The session controller receives subscriber equipment data such as information stream requests session initiation data set top identification capability and the like user clickstream information and or other data from subscriber equipment via a reverse data channel RDC .

The FDC and RDC are supported by the distribution network and may comprise relatively low bandwidth data channels such as 1 2 megabits per second data channels utilizing QPSK QAM or other modulation techniques. The FDC and RDC are also known as out of band channels while a relatively high bandwidth forward application transport channel FATC is also known as an in band channel. In various embodiments the session controller contains interface devices for sending control information via the forward data channel FDC and receiving control information via the reverse data channel RDC using so called out of band carrier frequencies.

The distribution network can be any one of a number of conventional broadband communications networks that are available such as a fiber optic network a telecommunications network a cable television network and the like. In various embodiments distinct FATC FDC and RDC channels are not used. For example in various embodiments the distribution network may comprise an IP network that may include more than one access network may traverse core Internet networks may traverse third party networks and so on.

The transport processor provides various forward content channel transmission interface functions of the system of . Specifically the transport processor is coupled to subscriber equipment via the forward applications transport channel FATC . In various embodiments the forward application transport channel FATC is supported by the distribution network and comprises a relatively high bandwidth communications channel well suited to carrying video audio and data such as for example multiplexed MPEG 2 transport packets. It should be noted that data normally conveyed to a set top box via the FDC may be included in the FATC data stream.

The transport processor contains a multiplexer or combiner for multiplexing or combining the content information stream CONTENT provided by content storage module and the asset information stream ASSETS provided by asset storage module .

The subscriber equipment comprises illustratively a subscriber terminal display device and input device . The subscriber terminal may comprise a set top terminal set top box communications terminal computer smartphone and or other device capable of interacting with the service provider equipment via the distribution network . The display device may comprise any display device such as a conventional television computer monitor the computer display a smart phone display and so on. The input device may comprise any input device such as a remote control a keyboard a touch screen device and so on. Generally speaking the subscriber terminal receives from the input device data indicative of user interaction with the input device . Generally speaking the subscriber terminal provides presentation signals of still or moving imagery suitable for presentation via the display device .

The diplexer couples the illustrative three channels of the distribution network carried by a single cable to the transmitter and receivers and .

Each receiver and contains any necessary tuners amplifiers filters demodulators depacketizers decoders and so on to tune downconvert and depacketize and otherwise retrieve the signals from the distribution network. The information channel receiver may contain a conventional in band QAM demodulator or other appropriate high bandwidth demodulator. Control channel receiver may comprise an out of band QPSK demodulator for handling command channel data carried by the forward data channel.

The decoder processes data packets carrying information provided by the QAM demodulator to provide useable signals for the display device or other presentation device or recording device. The decoder operates to decode audiovisual streams such as compressed elementary video streams MPEG video streams MPEG 2 transport streams and so on as appropriate. The decoder is in communication with and controlled by the controller .

The conventional cable television signal receiver contains a tuner and conventional analog television demodulator illustratively an NTSC PAL or SECAM demodulator.

The multiplexer selectively couples the demodulated analog television signal from the television signal receiver or the decoded video signal from the decoder to the display drive which conventionally processes the selected signal to produce a presentation or video signal suitable for use by illustratively the display device . The multiplexer is in communication with and controlled by the controller .

Thus each subscriber terminal receives data streams from the FATC or FDC demodulates the received data streams and in the case of video streams decodes or otherwise processes the demodulated video streams to provide video presentation streams suitable for use by display device . In addition the subscriber terminal accepts commands from the remote control input device or other input device. These commands are formatted modulated and transmitted through the distribution network to the session controller . This transmission may be propagated via the RDC though any communication channel capable of propagating data to the service provider equipment may be used. Subscriber terminal for different subscriber equipment may vary in the format of encoding and or transport protocol supporting such as supporting one or more of MPEG 2 MPEG 4 DVB and or other encoding or transport protocols.

Within the set top terminal the controller is supported by memory and various support circuits such as clocks a power supply an infrared receiver and the like. The memory is depicted as including various program modules including MPEG UI engine ME a messaging proxy MP and an operating system OS. The operation of these various program modules will now be described with respect to an MPEG UI generation function.

The MPEG UI generator may be located or operational at a service provider access node associated with the STB some other access node a node within the network a remote server a UI vendor system a cable television network head end and the like. For example in various embodiments the MPEG UI generator is implemented at the session controller or other elements within the service provider equipment discussed above with respect to the system of .

The STB may comprise an STB or other device or module capable of decoding processing MPEG transport streams and the like perhaps an STB having a relatively limited graphical user interface GUI capability. For example in various embodiments the STB comprises a subscriber terminal such as discussed above with respect to the subscriber equipment of the system of .

It should be noted that the various embodiments described herein are generally described within the context of the various MPEG related or MPEG like audiovisual compression and or transport processing standards and protocols. However various embodiments are adapted to use other audiovisual compression and or transport processing standards and protocols such as those associated with the Digital Video Broadcasting DVB Integrated Services Digital Broadcasting ISDB Advanced Television Systems Committee ATSC and so on.

Generally speaking the UI generator receives click stream and or other information from the STB indicative of user interaction with the user interface. In response to the click stream information the UI generator communicates with various network elements not shown in within the network illustratively an HTML 5 compliant network to retrieve appropriate imagery therefrom which imagery is then adapted by the UI generator for subsequent use by the STB . In particular the MPEG UI generator converts still or moving imagery received from the network into MPEG compliant imagery for propagation toward a STB.

MPEG encoded or compliant UI imagery provided by the MPEG UI generator as well as other data streams is processed by a MPEG UI renderer at the STB to provide thereby streaming video audio data and the like for presentation. In various embodiments channel tuning data video on demand VOD session data digital video recorder DVR scheduling data and the like may be communicated between the STB and UI generator via the click stream upstream path MPEG transport channel downstream path or other paths. For example in various embodiments the STB may include a Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS or other modem capability not shown adapted for communicating data to from the STB.

In various embodiments the UI renderer is implemented using MPEG demux decode capabilities resident or otherwise implemented at the STB . In various embodiments the UI renderer is implemented using MPEG demux decode capabilities outside of the STB .

Data extracted by the UI renderer is further processed by one or both of a guide program and VOD client . These entities provide resulting tuner storage and other information to the underlying operating system OS and hardware of the STB .

Generally speaking embodiments described herein with respect to may be conceptualized as a guide without a guide in that the entirety of the user interface is rendered via MPEG more generally compressed video including still or moving UI imagery . In this manner the bloat and complexity of the traditional user interface is removed from the set top box and replaced with a thin layer with the sole purpose of acting as a proxy between MPEG user interfaces and the underlying OS for relaying tuner and DVR commands.

At step the MPEG UI generator establishes a session with an STB identifies a specific channel within a plurality of video channels provided to the STB as a UI channel and propagates one or more initial UI screen assets towards the STB via the identified UI channel. The UI screen assets are adapted to be decoded at the STB to produce a video presentation stream suitable for use by illustratively a display device.

At step the MPEG UI generator waits to receive an STB content request or UI selection or clickstream data generated by illustratively a STB of other client device. In various embodiments clickstream data associated with a local client function will have been processed by a message proxy or other entity at the client. In these embodiments the local client function clickstream data may be ignored from a functional perspective though the data may be useful for subscriber management demographic profiling usage statistics and the like. In various embodiments clickstream data associated with a local client function may have been omitted from the clickstream data provided by the client device. In various embodiments a flag or indicator is associated with local client function of extreme data such that it can be readily identified as such.

At step if an STB content request is received by the MPEG UI generator then the requested content is propagated toward the STB via a content delivery channel. For example if the method is implemented using session manager then the session manager causes the content storage module begin streaming the requested content to the STB via the transport processor and distribution network . The method is implanted using an access node or other network element then the access node or other network element forwards the content request to an appropriate content request fulfillment elements such as a session manager content server and the like.

At step if data indicative of a UI selection is received by the MPEG UI generator then the UI screen assets associated with the UI selection data are propagated toward the STB via the identified UI channel. For example if the method is implemented using session manager then the session manager causes the UI asset storage module to stream the appropriate UI screen asset or assets to the STB via the transport processor and distribution network .

The method then waits for a next content request or UI selection. At any time the MPEG UI generator session manager or other entity may change the identified UI channel. In this case at least that portion step associated with identifying the UI channel to the STB is repeated.

The method generally provides for an MPEG UI generator in which initial and subsequent UI assets are streamed to an STB via a designated UI channel in response to data indicative of a user interaction or selection of the UI screen represented by the initial or subsequent UI assets.

At step the MPEG UI renderer establishes a session with the service provider and receives channel identification information associated with a channel to be used as a UI channel.

At step the MPEG UI renderer enters a UI mode in which UI assets and the like received via the identified UI channel are decoded to produce a video presentation stream for subsequent display. For example initial UI screen assets transmitted at step of the method are received at step of the method where the received assets are decoded and used to provide initial UI imagery on a display device for viewing by a user.

At step the UI channel is changed if necessary such as in response to a command received from the MPEG UI generator session manager or other network entity.

At step any other functions to be performed by the UI renderer are performed such as those noted below with respect to . For example in various embodiments the conditional UI rendering is provided wherein the UI renderer is responsive to the messaging proxy and the message proxy causes various modifications to UI rendering operations in response to certain conditions e.g. client device memory or processor resource conditions subscriber level subscriber authorization termination and so on . The method may be continually repeated.

At step the message proxy receives user interaction data i.e. clickstream data any terms if the received data is indicative of a local function such as a channel tuning function a local VOD session function a local DVR scheduling function and the like. In addition the clickstream data is propagated toward the MPEG UI generator session manager or other service provider equipment entity. Referring to box all of the user interaction data may be propagated with or without an optional local data indicator included within the propagating clickstream only non local user interaction data may be propagated or some commission thereof. In various embodiments status information performance information error codes and the like are also propagated.

At step if the user interaction data is indicative of a local function then the application programming interface API associated with the local function is invoked. For example in the case of data indicative of a local channel tuning function the API associated with channel tuning is invoked to responsibly select the appropriate video channel and corresponding audio channel .

At step if the user interaction data is indicative of a non local function then no action is taken. For example in the case of data indicative of UI manipulation requiring display of a different UI screen e.g. a different block of channels a different block of time etc. there is no local action to be taken since the MPEG UI generator must perform this task. It is noted that in the method discussed above with respect to only STB content requests or UI selections are processed. Thus clickstream data received by the MPEG UI generator indicative of a local STB function will be ignored as appropriate.

At step in various embodiments the message proxy receives messages from external devices via a dedicated socket an in band channel and or an out of band channel. These messages are then processed by the message proxy as appropriate. Referring to box received messages may comprise caller ID messages interactive advertising messages remote tuning commands and or other messages. In various embodiments the external device sending these messages comprises a mobile device such as a smart phone tablet laptop or other device. In various embodiments other client devices within the same house or associate of the same subscriber may communicate such messages to the client device.

At step in various embodiments the message proxy adapts the operation of the UI renderer via an API in response to the occurrence of one or more conditions to thereby increase or decrease UI function provide a conditional UI improve UI robustness and the like. Referring to box such conditions may comprise or be related to the DVR listing DVR capacity tuner state OS attribute order attribute memory level and or other conditions.

At step any other functions to be performed by the message proxy are performed. For example in various embodiments the message proxy is adapted to fetch encoded UI video assets or portions thereof via a broadband connection associated with said client device. That is in embodiments including a cable modem fiber interface or other broadband access device the message proxy may request the delivery of encoded UI video assets or portions thereof as well as advertising content or other content via a broadband connection to improve overall performance of the user interface client device and system in general. The method may be continually repeated.

In various embodiments additional capabilities are included to reduce the complexity of a set top box needed to support the various UI features discussed herein in the following example.

In various embodiments a thin message marshaling proxy does not include actual user interface rather it is instantiated at the same software layer as a traditional or underlying guide and is optionally provided with application programming interfaces APIs that extend abstractions of the hardware and OS up to the MPEG rendering component. These embodiments may include implementations within the context of DVR listings DVR capacity tuner state OS Hardware attributes available memory and the like. These can be cleanly exposed to the MPEG UI renderer such that more robust and or conditionally rendered user interfaces will be possible.

In various embodiments in addition to serving as a proxy to the OS the thin message marshaling proxy layer is implemented as one or more dedicated sockets to eliminate the need for such additional clients. It is noted that many traditional guides do not have innate or well defined external messaging capabilities. Thus activities such as pushing caller ID messages interactive ads remote tune commands from a Smartphone and so on which typically require other dedicated application environments EBIF etc may be addressed as well.

It is noted that traditional program guides do not reliably report state or usage information. For example some of these program guides collect or batch up DVR status information for periodic transmission to a remote server while others rely on external monitoring applications to be built. Thus in various embodiments DVR status information and other status information is included within the new layer discussed herein thereby eliminating a need for additional components and allowing operators to reliably develop cloud services. This would include harvesting DVR status or tuning activity in real time allowing for cloud based access to DVR information from other devices understanding of real time usage behaviors and so on.

It is noted that since a thin client has no UI of its own it would have significantly more memory at its disposal than a traditional monolith guide. Therefore in various embodiments available memory is adapted to cache portions of the MPEG UI.

Within the context of mid range set top boxes with embedded broadband connections e.g. cable modems a thin client according to the various embodiments is adapted to fetch the MPEG UI portions of it or various changes via the broadband connection. In this manner upstream contention on a cable plant may be significantly reduced.

In various embodiments the client is adapted to reduce a bitrate of a unicast signal by programmatically merging quadrature amplitude modulated QAM video and the UI imagery.

In various embodiments the client is adapted to utilize specific sockets or interfaces exposed for the purpose of providing remote diagnostics of the OS hardware UI of the STB.

As depicted in computing device includes a processor element e.g. a central processing unit CPU and or other suitable processor s a memory e.g. random access memory RAM read only memory ROM and the like a cooperating module processor and various input output devices e.g. a user input device such as a keyboard a keypad a mouse and the like a user output device such as a display a speaker and the like an input port an output port a receiver a transmitter and storage devices e.g. a persistent solid state drive a hard disk drive a compact disk drive and the like .

It will be appreciated that the functions depicted and described herein may be implemented in hardware and or in a combination of software and hardware e.g. using a general purpose computer one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC and or any other hardware equivalents. In one embodiment the cooperating process can be loaded into memory and executed by processor to implement the functions as discussed herein. Thus cooperating process including associated data structures can be stored on a computer readable storage medium e.g. RAM memory magnetic or optical drive or diskette and the like.

It will be appreciated that computing device depicted in provides a general architecture and functionality suitable for implementing functional elements described herein or portions of the functional elements described herein.

It is contemplated that some of the steps discussed herein may be implemented within hardware for example as circuitry that cooperates with the processor to perform various method steps. Portions of the functions elements described herein may be implemented as a computer program product wherein computer instructions when processed by a computing device adapt the operation of the computing device such that the methods and or techniques described herein are invoked or otherwise provided. Instructions for invoking the inventive methods may be stored in tangible and non transitory computer readable medium such as fixed or removable media or memory and or stored within a memory within a computing device operating according to the instructions.

Although various embodiments which incorporate the teachings of the present invention have been shown and described in detail herein those skilled in the art can readily devise many other varied embodiments that still incorporate these teachings. Thus while the foregoing is directed to various embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof. As such the appropriate scope of the invention is to be determined according to the claims.

