---

title: Mobile terminal device, operation method, program, and storage medium
abstract: A mobile terminal device includes a touch panel where a specified input operation is performed with an indicator, an input detection unit, and an operation determination unit. The input detection unit detects the pattern of the input operation based on the position of the indicator on the touch panel, and decreases the frequency of execution of processing arranged to detect the input operation performed on the touch panel when an input operation performed on the touch panel is not detected over a specified time period. When the pattern of the input operation is detected in the case where the execution frequency of the processing arranged to detect the input operation is low, the operation determination unit causes a controlled unit determined to be an operation target in relation to the pattern of the input operation to execute a specified operation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09569096&OS=09569096&RS=09569096
owner: Sony Mobile Communications Inc.
number: 09569096
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20160519
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 800 229 filed Jul. 15 2015 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 926 744 filed Jun. 25 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 116 696 which is based upon and claims the benefit of the earlier filing date of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 672 953 filed in the USPTO on Jul. 18 2012 the entire contents of which being incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates to a mobile terminal device an operation method a program and a storage medium that are applied to the case where a user performs an input operation for a touch panel to execute a specific function.

In recent years touch panels have been increasingly adopted for terminal devices including a mobile phone terminal a high performance type mobile information terminal having a conversation function what is referred to as a smart phone a tablet type terminal and so forth as input devices for which users perform an operation input. The touch panel is a device including a display unit displaying an image etc. and a position input device such as a touch sensor which are integrated into one body.

In a terminal device including a touch panel specified operations are input by a user to various icons that are displayed on the screen of the display unit for example so that application software hereinafter often abbreviated to application executes. The application is associated with the icon and performs an operation in accordance with the details of the operation input. As operation input methods a tap operation achieved by tapping the screen a drag operation achieved by moving an indicator including a touched finger a stylus pen etc. from a specified position to a different position a flick operation achieved by moving the finger or the indicator on the screen in such a way to make a quick sweeping stroke a tap operation achieved by tapping the screen and so forth have been available.

The various operations are determined based on for example information about a coordinate position defined on the screen where a finger of the user or the indicator touches or approaches which is attained during a series of operations performed from when the finger or the indicator touches the screen to when the finger or the indicator leaves the screen. Specifically information about for example the amount of a change in the coordinate position per unit time the moving speed of the coordinate position an area on the screen where a touch is detected etc. is used as information specifying the details of an operation input.

Then in the mobile terminal device a shift to a suspend state which is a power saving mode is made when there is no operation input from the user over a fixed time period so as to reduce the power consumption. In the suspend state the light amount of backlight of the display unit is reduced or various functions are stopped to reduce the power consumption. However since the details of an operation input performed before making the shift to the suspend state etc. are stored in a memory processing can be started again by reading the details of the operation input etc. from the memory after waking up from the suspend state referred to as wakeup . In the following description processing performed to wake up from the suspend state is referred to as resuming .

The mobile terminal device includes a touch panel the display unit superimposed on the touch panel and a home button provided to display a home screen image. When the mobile terminal device is in the suspend state a user performs an operation by pressing the home button with a finger see . When the mobile terminal device wakes up through resuming the home screen image is displayed on the display unit see . On the home screen image lists of various types of video functional icons are displayed.

Further the method of starting the operation of a device by detecting an operation performed on the touch panel has also become available. For example in Patent Literature 1 the method of shifting a device to a user interface unlocked state when a contact with a touch sensitive display corresponds to a specified gesture is disclosed.

As stated above in the known mobile terminal device each unit is resumed after the user presses the home button or after a specified gesture operation is input by the user. Then an operation including selecting the functional icon corresponding to an application to be started anew after the home screen image is displayed and starting the application is performed. However it is much trouble to perform the operation including selecting the functional icon after going through the home screen image each time resuming is performed which makes it impossible to use a target function immediately. Further when resuming is performed initialization processing etc. are needed for each target function which becomes a cause of retarding the startup of an application.

Accordingly the inventor recognizes the necessity to immediately execute a specific function when in the suspend state.

A mobile terminal device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure includes a touch panel where a specified input operation is performed with an indicator an input detection unit configured to detect a pattern of the input operation based on a position of the indicator on the touch panel and decrease a frequency of execution of processing arranged to detect the input operation performed on the touch panel when the input operation performed on the touch panel is not detected over a specified time period and an operation determination unit configured to instruct a controlled unit determined to be an operation target based on the pattern of the input operation to execute a specified operation when the pattern of the input operation is detected in the case where the execution frequency of the processing arranged to detect the input operation is low.

Further an operation method according to an embodiment of the present disclosure includes a step of detecting a pattern of an input operation based on a position of an indicator by which an input operation is performed on a touch panel a step of detecting the pattern of the input operation based on the position of the indicator on the touch panel and decreasing a frequency of execution of processing arranged to detect the input operation performed on the touch panel when the input operation performed on the touch panel is not detected over a specified time period and a step of instructing a controlled unit determined to be an operation target based on the pattern of the input operation to execute a specified operation when the pattern of the input operation is detected in the case where the execution frequency of the processing arranged to detect the input operation is low.

Further a program according to an embodiment of the present disclosure causes a computer to execute a procedure for detecting a pattern of an input operation based on a position of an indicator by which an input operation is performed on a touch panel a procedure for detecting the pattern of the input operation based on the position of the indicator on the touch panel and decreasing a frequency of execution of processing arranged to detect the input operation performed on the touch panel when the input operation performed on the touch panel is not detected over a specified time period and a procedure for instructing a controlled unit determined to be an operation target based on the pattern of the input operation to execute a specified operation when the pattern of the input operation is detected in the case where the execution frequency of the processing arranged to detect the input operation is low.

Further a computer readable storage medium according to an embodiment of the present disclosure stores a program causing a computer to execute a procedure for detecting a pattern of an input operation based on a position of an indicator by which an input operation is performed on a touch panel a procedure for detecting the pattern of the input operation based on the position of the indicator on the touch panel and decreasing a frequency of execution of processing arranged to detect the input operation performed on the touch panel when the input operation performed on the touch panel is not detected over a specified time period and a procedure for instructing a controlled unit determined to be an operation target based on the pattern of the input operation to execute a specified operation when the pattern of the input operation is detected in the case where the execution frequency of the processing arranged to detect the input operation is low.

According to the present disclosure when an input operation performed on the touch panel is not detected over a specified time period the power consumption is reduced by decreasing the execution frequency of processing arranged to detect the input operation performed on the touch panel. Then when the pattern of the input operation is detected when the execution frequency of the processing is decreased a controlled unit determined to be an operation target in relation to the pattern of the input operation is caused to execute a specified operation. Accordingly a specific function can be immediately executed when no input operation is performed and a shift to the suspend state is made.

Hereinafter embodiments of the present disclosure will be described. Incidentally the descriptions will be given in the following order.

Hereinafter a first embodiment of the present disclosure will be described with reference to to . In the present embodiment an exemplary application of a mobile terminal device configured to immediately start a specific function in response to an operation performed for a touch panel will be described. The mobile terminal device achieves an operation method performed by internal blocks working in cooperation with one another which will be described later through a computer executing a program. Incidentally common components that are shown in the drawings are designated by the same reference signs.

The mobile terminal device includes a cabinet a touch panel where a specified input operation is performed with an indicator the touch panel being accommodated in the front part of the cabinet and operation keys that are provided on for example the end part of the front of the cabinet .

The touch panel is employed as an input device for which a user performs an input operation for a terminal device including a mobile phone terminal a high performance type mobile information terminal having a conversation function what is referred to as a smart phone a tablet type terminal and so forth. The touch panel is configured as for example a sensor achieved under the capacitance system. Then the touch panel includes a touch sensor see used as a position input device to which a position specified by an indicator including a finger a stylus pen etc. is input and a display unit displaying an image etc. which are integrated into one body. The display unit includes for example a liquid crystal panel or an organic EL Electro Luminescence panel etc.

As a sensing system allowing the touch panel to detect an input operation achieved by the indicator the following systems may be used. For example the resistive film system detecting a change in the resistance value of a part touched by the indicator the electromagnetic induction system detecting the electromagnetic energy of an indicator specifically designed to generate a magnetic field the capacitance system detecting a change in the capacitance value of a touched part etc. may be used.

Hereinafter an example where a finger is used as the indicator performing an input operation on the touch panel will be described.

As for the terminal device the user inputs specified operations for various icons that are displayed on the screen of the display unit for example so that various applications that are associated with the icons perform operations based on the details of the operation inputs. The details of the input operations include a tap operation achieved by tapping the surface of the touch panel a drag operation achieved by moving a finger caused to touch the touch panel from a specified position to a different position a flick operation achieved by moving the finger on the screen in such a way to make a quick sweeping stroke and so forth.

The various operations are determined based on for example information about coordinates on the screen where a finger touches or approaches during a series of operations performed from when the a finger of the user or a finger touches the screen to when the finger of the user or the finger leaves the screen. Specifically information about for example the amount of a change in the coordinates per unit time the moving speed of the coordinates an area on the screen where a touch is detected etc. is used as information specifying the details of an operation input.

The operation keys include a home button a power button a volume button etc. The user can display a home screen image on the display unit by pressing the home button. Further the power of the mobile terminal device can be turned on off by pressing the power button. Further the magnitude of volume can be changed during a conversation or during the music reproduction by pressing the volume button.

The mobile terminal device includes an antenna performing transmission and reception of an electric wave between a radio telephone base station a communication processing unit to which the antenna is connected and a control unit . Further the mobile terminal device includes a voice processing unit a speaker and a microphone .

The communication processing unit performs radio communications with the radio telephone base station under control of the control unit . During a voice conversation voice data included in data received with the communication processing unit is supplied to the voice processing unit that performs voice processing for the voice data and that causes the speaker to emit a voice. Then the voice processing unit performs decoding processing for the voice data so that an analog voice signal is obtained. The analog voice signal obtained with the voice processing unit is supplied to the speaker which is an exemplary sound emitting unit and output as a voice. A voice signal collected and acquired with the microphone is also supplied to the voice processing unit and encoded into voice data in a specified encoding format e.g. PWM Pulse Width Modulation with the voice processing unit . Then the acquired voice data is supplied to the communication processing unit and emitted through the antenna as a radio wave.

The processing units including the communication processing unit the voice processing unit and so forth exchange control data with the control unit via a control line CL and transfer data via a data line DL. The control unit includes a CPU Central Processing Unit a GPU Graphics Processing Unit and so forth and controls the units constituting the mobile terminal device . For example the control unit performs changing a command issued for application software stored in a storage unit that will be described later etc. based on a result of the operation determination performed with a touch sensor drive unit that will be described later.

Further the mobile terminal device includes the touch panel and the operation keys . In the touch panel the touch sensor the touch sensor drive unit and the display unit are included. The touch sensor is configured as for example a sensor achieved under the mutual capacitance system of the projected capacitance system and includes transmission electrodes TX and reception electrodes RX that are not shown which are arranged in matrix form in the X direction and the Y direction.

By grounding the reception electrode and inputting a drive pulse to the transmission electrode an electric field is generated between the transmission electrode and the reception electrode. When an indicator including a finger of the user which is a kind of electric conductor a stylus pen etc. approaches the surface of the touch panel hereinafter referred to as the operation surface part of the electric field is absorbed in the electric conductor so that the electric field generated between the transmission electrode and the reception electrode is decreased. Consequently an electric charge capacitance value occurring in the reception electrode is also decreased. Accordingly the measurement of a decrease in the electric charge the decrease being associated with a decrease in the electric field generated between the transmission electrode and the reception electrode allows for detecting that the operation surface of the touch panel is touched untouched.

The touch sensor drive unit inputs a drive pulse to each transmission electrode and detects an electric charge of the reception electrode. The touch sensor is used as an input detection unit that detects whether the indicator for which an input operation is performed touches or untouches the operation surface of the touch panel by measuring a change in the capacitance value detected with the touch sensor drive unit .

The touch sensor detects a position defined on the operation surface of the touch panel where a touch or an approach of the indicator is detected and detects the position of the indicator on the touch panel . Then the touch sensor also outputs information about the XY coordinates corresponding to that position. As for the details of an input operation performed by the user a pinch pinch in pinch out operation achieved by decreasing and increasing the space between two fingers etc. are performed in addition to the above described tap operation drag operation and flick operation. Further the touch sensor detects the pattern of an input operation performed by the indicator on the touch panel based on a position coordinate information etc. defined on the screen where the indicator touches or approaches during a series of operations performed from when the indicator touches on the operation surface to when the indicator leaves the operation surface.

The touch sensor drive unit is used as an operation determination unit that determines the type of the indicator whether or not it is a finger etc. that touches or approaches the operation surface of the touch panel based on a capacitance value detected with the touch sensor . The capacitance value includes for example information about a distribution attained on the operation surface of the touch panel the magnitude of the capacitance value and so forth.

The control unit controls the display processing unit to perform control to cause the display unit to display a specified screen image.

The display processing unit causes the display unit to display the screen image corresponding to an application executed with the control unit . For example the display unit is caused to display video taken by a camera application. Further a browser or the like is often scrolled up or down for display based on the details of an operation performed on the operation surface of the touch panel the screen image is often moved based on the flick operation and a selected spot is often reduced or enlarged for display based on the pinch operation. For displaying an image on the display unit the display processing unit stores several frames worth of video data in a frame buffer . The frame buffer is a memory storing video data on FIFO First In First Out basis. The display unit displays video based on the video data of each frame read from the frame buffer .

Further the mobile terminal device includes an imaging drive unit an imaging unit a storage unit an antenna a radio communication processing unit and a sensor unit .

The imaging unit includes an imaging element that has an image sensor including for example a CCD Charge Coupled Device a CMOS Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor and so forth. Further the imaging unit has an optical system including an un illustrated lens provided to photograph a subject a shutter and so forth. Then the imaging unit generates an image signal by performing photoelectric conversion for a subject light formed on the light receiving surface thereof via the un illustrated lens. An imaging operation of the imaging unit is controlled with the imaging drive unit .

The voice processing unit and the speaker the display processing unit the frame buffer and the display unit and the imaging drive unit and the imaging unit are used as controlled units. The operations of the controlled units are controlled via middleware when an input operation is performed on the touch panel in the state where application software is started and the operations are controlled via the middleware in a suspend state.

Then when the pattern of the input operation is detected when the frequency of execution of processing arranged to detect an input operation is low the touch sensor drive unit instructs a controlled unit which is determined to be an operation target based on the pattern of the input operation to execute a specified operation. Further when the pattern of the input operation is detected in the suspend state where at least the application software and the middleware are not started the touch sensor drive unit starts the middleware that will be described later. Then a specified operation is executed from the middleware to the controlled unit which is determined to be the operation target in relation to the pattern of the input operation.

The storage unit includes a ROM Read Only Memory or a RAM Random Access Memory and stores various types of application software necessary data for executing those and so forth. The radio communication processing unit communicates with peripheral devices by radio based on procedures conforming to a specified communication standard via the connected antenna .

The sensor unit includes an acceleration sensor a magnetic field sensor etc. and outputs a specified sensor value. Due to the sensor output of the acceleration sensor the control unit can determine an operation achieved by lifting and shaking the mobile terminal device and the orientation in which the mobile terminal device is used.

In the mobile terminal device an HMI Human Machine Interface layer a middleware layer and a hardware layer are set and various modules operate in relation to one another in each layer. Module groups that are included in the HMI layer and the middle layer are referred to as the software in contrast to the hardware.

In the following description software administering the operations of applications and middleware that are included in each layer and the units that are included in the mobile terminal device and the energization etc. of the units under control of the control unit is referred to as a system . The system includes for example an OS Operating System etc. The system performs processing including interrupt control timeout management etc. outputs various instructions etc. collectively manages the operations of the mobile terminal device and performs control to execute resume processing and suspend processing in each unit for example.

In the hardware layer the units that are provided in the mobile terminal device which are illustrated in are included. Between the HMI layer and the middleware layer data is mutually transferred via a public API Application Programming Interface that mediates the processing of various types of application software. Between the middleware layer and the hardware layer data is mutually transferred via a driver API mediating processing performed for the units that are included in the mobile terminal device .

In the HMI layer various modules including a home screen image application a camera application a music reproduction application etc. are provided. The home screen image application performs control to display a home screen image on the display unit . The camera application performs control to display various menus etc. that are provided to perform imaging through the imaging unit . The music reproduction application performs control to cause the voice processing unit to perform codec of voice data for example.

In the middleware layer a quick start camera middleware and multimedia middleware are provided. The quick start performs control to resume the system of the mobile terminal device which is in the suspend state. Further the quick start is used as an interface which starts each of the units of the hardware layer with high speed by performing sequence control during resume processing. As a function allowing the quick start to perform the sequence control there is one that unarchives a music file of which reproduction is interrupted in a memory and that increases the speed of a read operation to control a series of operations necessary to execute an imaging function and execute a music reproduction function for example.

The camera middleware converts and transfers an instruction issued from the camera application to the imaging drive unit and notifies the camera application of the operation state of the imaging unit etc. which is received from the imaging drive unit . The multimedia middleware accumulates video data etc. in the frame buffer and outputs the video data read from the frame buffer to the display unit to display video. Further the multimedia middleware causes the voice processing unit to perform codec processing etc. for voice data etc. and outputs the processed voice data to the speaker to emit a voice.

Incidentally in the past during processing performed to wake up the system which is in the suspend state through resuming processing is performed to display a home screen image on the display unit under control of the home screen image application . The home screen image that had been started through resuming is in an unlocked state where the user can perform an operation input.

On the other hand when the system is woken up from the suspend state in the mobile terminal device according to the present embodiment operations of the units of the hardware layer are directly controlled from the middleware layer without going through the HMI layer. For example in the mobile terminal device the camera middleware is directly controlled with the quick start without going through an operation of the camera application which allows immediate imaging processing. Likewise in the mobile terminal device the multimedia middleware is directly controlled with the quick start without going through an operation of the music reproduction application which allows immediate music reproduction processing. Thus in the mobile terminal device a shortcut function is achieved to immediately execute various functions without going through control performed in the public API.

Here exemplary scans that are performed for the touch sensor to detect that an operation input is performed by a finger touching the operation surface of the touch panel will be described with reference to and B.

The usual scan illustrated in is performed when the mobile terminal device is not in the suspend state. During the usual scan the surface of the touch sensor is scanned at a scan rate of 60 Hz for example and the response is increased to send a result back to an operation input from the user. However since scans are performed with an increased frequency during the usual scan the power consumption of the touch panel is also increased.

The intermittent scan illustrated in is performed when the mobile terminal device is in the suspend state. At that time the touch sensor which is used as an input detection unit decreases the execution frequency of processing arranged to detect an input operation performed for the touch panel when no input operation performed for the touch panel is detected over a specified time period.

During the intermittent scan the surface of the touch sensor is scanned at a scan rate of 10 Hz for example and a sleep period where the various functions of the mobile terminal device are stopped is provided between each scan. Therefore the power consumption of the intermittent scan is lower than that of the usual scan. Further an operation input from the user is performed with a decreased frequency in the suspend state. Accordingly it is advisable to detect the tap or drag operation when those operations are performed with the minimum frequency. The intermittent scan causes no operability discomfort so long as it is arranged that the usual scan is performed after detecting an operation input from the user and performing the resume processing.

As illustrated in a finger touches the position of coordinates X Y 3 14 of the touch panel . At that time capacitance values 90 to 100 near the position of coordinates 3 14 are higher than capacitance values 7 to 10 that are detected at different positions. Consequently the touch sensor detects that an operation input is performed on the touch panel . According to the stereoscopic graph of the capacitance values which is illustrated in it is evident that a capacitance value obtained at the position of coordinates 3 14 is conspicuous. It is advisable to provide a specified threshold value e.g. 50 for the capacitance value and detect a touch operation when the capacitance value exceeds the threshold value.

As illustrated in the touch sensor outputs high capacitance values 40 to 80 over the entire face when the mobile terminal device is put into the pocket etc. of the user because a human body touches over the entire face of the touch panel via cloth etc. At that time since the high capacitance values are detected over the entire face of the touch panel the touch sensor drive unit determines that no intentional operation input is performed by the user even though an object touches the touch panel for some reason. According to the stereoscopic graph of the capacitance values which is illustrated in it is evident that high capacitance values are detected over the entire face of the touch sensor .

Thus the touch sensor drive unit detects nothing as a touch operation when capacitance values are detected over the entire face of the touch sensor so as not to cause the mobile terminal device to malfunction in the suspend state. Then the malfunction is avoided by performing control so that specified processing is executed when the touch sensor detects capacitance values for gesture operations that are performed in specific patterns which will be described later.

Next exemplary gesture operations that are performed according to the present embodiment will be described with reference to .

In an example where the home screen image is started by the user touching the operation surface of the touch panel in place of processing performed in the past to start a home screen image from the suspend state by pressing the power key of the mobile terminal device .

Incidentally even though the mobile terminal device is in the suspend state intermittently scanning the surface of the touch panel as illustrated in allows for continuously performing the touch detection processing.

The first gesture operation which is an exemplary specified input operation is an operation achieved by sweeping the touch panel in a Z shape see when the mobile terminal device is in the suspend state. When the touch sensor detects that the first gesture operation is performed on the touch panel in the suspend state the touch sensor drive unit displays a specified screen image on the display unit .

At that time the mobile terminal device starts resuming from the suspend state and starts the home screen image see . Since the home screen image can be directly started from the suspend state without inputting a password the user can immediately select a menu from the home screen image through an easy operation.

Since the touch sensor drive unit can detect a specific pattern made on the operation surface on the touch panel operations of various applications other than the function of starting the home screen image from the suspend state as illustrated in can be combined with specific patterns that are made on the operation surface. A function illustrated in achieves capturing a camera through image shot by the imaging unit by performing a drag operation achieved by drawing a circle with a finger on the operation surface of the touch panel when the mobile terminal device is in the suspend state.

The second gesture operation which is an exemplary specified input operation is an operation achieved by sweeping the touch panel in a circular shape see when the mobile terminal device is in the suspend state. When the touch sensor detects that the second gesture operation different from the first gesture operation is performed on the touch panel in the suspend state the touch sensor drive unit causes the imaging drive unit to start an operation of the imaging unit . Then the touch sensor drive unit causes the display unit to display an image obtained by imaging performed with the imaging unit .

At that time the mobile terminal device starts resuming from the suspend state starts the imaging drive unit and shoots a subject through the imaging unit without starting the camera application see . An image of the subject which is obtained through the imaging is displayed on the display unit . Since an operation of the imaging unit is not executed after going through an imaging menu from the home screen image the user can immediately perform imaging at desired time for taking an image of the subject.

Next an exemplary comparison between the sequence of an example where shooting is performed by starting the camera application through a known operation and that of an example where high speed shooting is performed through a function according to the present embodiment will be described with reference to . Incidentally the mobile terminal device according to the present embodiment can perform both the known operation and the function according to the present embodiment.

The known operation allows for starting the camera application after the system of the mobile terminal device is woken up after the user presses the power key in the suspend state. Then the shooting processing is executed after the camera application is started.

In the following description the mobile terminal device being in the suspend state or shifting to various modes is expressed by the control unit functioning as a system illustrated in the sequence diagram.

First it is assumed that the system is in the suspend state step S . When the power key included in the operation keys is pressed when the system is in the suspend state processing performed to resume the system is started step S .

At that time the control unit outputs a resume instruction to the touch sensor drive unit step S the touch sensor drive unit performs resume processing for the touch sensor and the touch sensor waits for an operation performed to detect an input operation step S . Then an unillustrated camera icon provided to start the camera application is displayed on the display unit unillustrated in .

Further the control unit outputs a resume instruction to the imaging drive unit step S and the imaging drive unit performs resume processing for the imaging element and waits for an input of an imaging operation step S . After resuming processing performed for each unit is finished the system enters a wakeup state where a response is sent back to an operation input from the user step S .

Upon detecting that an input operation achieved with a touch is performed at the position where the camera icon is displayed step S the touch sensor notifies the touch sensor drive unit of the coordinates where the touch is detected step S . Further the touch sensor drive unit notifies the control unit of the coordinates step S .

Upon being informed that the input operation is performed for the camera icon through the notification from the touch sensor drive unit the control unit outputs an instruction to start the camera application to the camera application step S . Upon receiving the start instruction the camera application initializes the camera middleware step S . Then the camera middleware outputs an instruction to perform power on processing and initialization processing to the imaging drive unit step S . Accordingly the imaging drive unit is energized and the initialization processing is performed.

Further the imaging drive unit outputs an instruction to perform power on processing and initialization processing to the imaging element step S . Accordingly the imaging element is energized and the initialization processing is performed. Then a shooting icon provided to specify a shooting operation is displayed on the display unit .

Upon detecting that an input operation achieved with a touch is performed at the position where the shooting icon is displayed step S the touch sensor notifies the touch sensor drive unit of the coordinates where the touch is detected step S . Further the touch sensor drive unit notifies the control unit of the coordinates step S .

Upon being informed that the input operation is performed for the shooting icon through the notification from the touch sensor drive unit the control unit notifies the camera application of the touched coordinates step S . Upon receiving the touched coordinates the camera application outputs an instruction to start shooting processing to the camera middleware step S .

The camera middleware instructs the imaging drive unit to perform processing to capture a shot image step S and the imaging drive unit performs the processing to capture the shot image based on an image signal output from the imaging element step S . The image subjected to the capture processing is displayed on the display unit .

Thus according to known processing the user firstly presses the power button to cancel the suspend state searches and selects the camera icon on the home screen image displayed through the resume processing and performs shooting with the shooting icon. Therefore many procedures are performed from the suspend state until the shooting is started which leads to complicated operations.

First it is assumed that the system is in the suspend state step S . When the mobile terminal device is in the suspend state the intermittent scan is performed for the touch sensor to wait for the detection of a touch operation in the low power consumption mode where the consumption power is kept low step S .

When an operation input is performed on the touch panel through the second gesture operation instructing to start performing shooting the touch sensor detects that the operation input is performed step S . At that time the touch sensor outputs a particular interrupt instruction issued to wake up the system to the touch sensor drive unit step S .

Incidentally when the control unit is in the suspend state no processing is performed upon receiving a usual interrupt instruction. However the particular interrupt instruction instructs the control unit to start performing resume processing. Therefore upon receiving the particular interrupt instruction the control unit starts performing the resume processing and performs processing to cause a transition from the suspend state to a wakeup state.

The touch sensor drive unit outputs an instruction to start resume processing for the system to the control unit as the particular interrupt instruction step S . Accordingly the control unit starts performing the resume processing for the system step S .

Further the touch sensor drive unit outputs an instruction to perform wakeup processing for the camera middleware and an instruction specifying the start of capture processing to the quick start step S . Upon receiving the instructions from the touch sensor drive unit the quick start outputs the instruction to perform the wakeup processing for the camera middleware to the camera middleware and outputs the instruction specifying the start of the capture processing step S .

After performing the wakeup processing the camera middleware outputs an instruction to perform power on processing and initialization processing to the imaging drive unit step S . Accordingly the imaging drive unit is energized and the initialization processing is performed.

Further the imaging drive unit outputs an instruction to perform power on processing and initialization processing to the imaging element step S . Accordingly the imaging element is energized and the initialization processing is performed. Then the shooting icon provided to specify the shooting operation is displayed on the display unit .

The resume processing performed for the system is finished and the control unit enters the wakeup state step S . Next the camera middleware instructs the imaging drive unit to perform processing to capture a shot image step S . At that time the camera middleware outputs an instruction to start the camera application step S .

Then the imaging drive unit performs the processing to capture the shot image based on an image signal output from the imaging element step S . The image subjected to the capture processing is displayed on the display unit . Then for the image displayed on the display unit an operation menu etc. provided due to the start of the camera application is displayed on the display unit .

Thus processing or software executed through the second gesture operation is limited. Then the camera application is started after capturing the image immediately after detecting the gesture operation which minimizes the time that elapses before the shooting is started. Accordingly it becomes possible to shoot the subject at the moment the user wishes to shoot and eliminate the user s complaint about missing timing by taking too much time on startup for performing shooting through the mobile terminal device which is in the suspend state.

Next an exemplary gesture operation executed to perform the music reproduction will be described with reference to .

The music reproduction function described here reduces the time that elapses before the music reproduction is started when an operation is performed on the touch panel through a specific gesture. Incidentally as being operated with low power consumption the mobile terminal device is in an early suspend state where the display unit is in the suspend state and no image is displayed.

The third gesture operation which is an exemplary specified input operation is an operation achieved by sweeping the touch panel in an N shape see when the mobile terminal device is in the suspend state. When the touch sensor detects that the third gesture operation is performed on the touch panel in the suspend state the touch sensor drive unit causes the voice processing to start performing voice processing and causes a sound emitting unit to emit a voice.

At that time the mobile terminal device starts performing resuming from the suspend state starts the voice processing unit and emits reproduced music through the speaker see . When the display unit is started in the early suspend state various information relating to the music which is being reproduced e.g. the track name the singer s name and so forth is not displayed on the display unit . However it may be arranged that the display unit is started and the various information relating to the music which is being reproduced is displayed on the display unit .

First it is assumed that the system is in the suspend state step S . When the mobile terminal device is in the suspend state the intermittent scan is performed for the touch sensor to wait for the detection of a touch operation in the low power consumption mode step S .

When an operation input is performed on the touch panel through a gesture performed to restart the music reproduction the third gesture operation the touch sensor detects that the operation input is performed step S . At that time the touch sensor outputs a particular interrupt instruction to the touch sensor drive unit step S .

The touch sensor drive unit outputs an instruction to start resume processing for the system and start the early suspend state to the control unit as a particular interrupt instruction step S . Consequently the control unit starts performing the resume processing for the system step S .

Further the touch sensor drive unit outputs an instruction to perform processing to restart the music reproduction of the multimedia middleware to the quick start step S . Upon receiving the instruction from the touch sensor drive unit the quick start outputs the instruction to perform the processing to restart the music reproduction of the multimedia middleware to the multimedia middleware step S .

After that the multimedia middleware outputs an instruction to perform power on processing and initialization processing to the voice processing unit step S . Accordingly the voice processing unit is energized and the initialization processing is performed.

Further the voice processing unit outputs an instruction to perform the power on processing and the initialization processing to the speaker step S . Accordingly the speaker is energized the initialization processing is performed and reproduced music is emitted.

After that when the resume processing performed for the system is finished the system enters the early suspend state step S . At that time an off state is achieved so that no image is displayed on the display unit . Then when the system enters the early suspend state the multimedia middleware transmits a start notification indicating that the music reproduction is restarted to the music reproduction application step S . Upon receiving the notification the music reproduction application is started.

The above described mobile terminal device according to the first embodiment allows for immediately executing a specific function in the suspend state when an operation input is performed on the touch panel through a specific gesture operation. Here the modules that are provided in the middleware layer directly output instructions and instruct the units that are included in the hardware layer to start performing operations without going through the various applications that are provided in the HMI layer see . Therefore the user is allowed to execute various functions that are allocated to specific gesture operations without waiting for the time consuming start of the various applications that are provided in the HMI layer which leads to increased operability.

Further when the first gesture operation is performed on the touch panel of the mobile terminal device which is in the suspend state the home screen image is started without operating the operation key . When each user can separately set the first gesture operation to start the home screen image the password input can be omitted by using the first gesture operation which is only known by the user in place of the password input.

Further when the second gesture operation is performed on the touch panel shooting can be started by immediately starting the imaging drive unit and the imaging unit . In that case the shooting can also be performed without waiting for the start of the camera application which takes much time before the start which avoids losing the imaging timing.

Further when the third gesture operation is performed on the touch panel the music reproduction can be started by immediately starting the music reproduction unit . By restarting the reproduction from some midpoint in a track where the music reproduction had been stopped the user is allowed to reproduce and immediately enjoy music he had been listening to until the use of the mobile terminal device was stopped.

Further when the mobile terminal device is in the suspend state the power consumption can be reduced by performing the intermittent scan. Further a distribution of capacitance values is obtained when the area where the touch sensor detects an operation input is part of or the entire face of the touch sensor which allows for separately determining whether or not the user intentionally performed the operation input. Therefore for an unintentional operation input which is performed when a human body indirectly touches the touch panel of the mobile terminal device which is put into a pocket by the user it becomes possible to avoid erroneously determining that an operation input is done.

Incidentally for the mobile terminal device according to the first embodiment exemplary applications regarding the startup of the home screen image the shooting and the music reproduction have been described. Additionally however any application may be used so long as it is desired to be immediately started for use. For example a map application illustrating the current value etc. or an application that logs into SNS Social Networking Service or makes access to a blog site or a news site may be used.

Next the mobile terminal device according to a second embodiment of the present disclosure will be described with reference to .

The mobile terminal device according to the second embodiment immediately achieves a function used by a user not only by various gesture operations that are operation input to the touch panel but also by combining a sensor value output from the sensor unit .

When the touch sensor detects that a specified input operation is performed on the touch panel in the suspend state the touch sensor drive unit selects a single controlled unit from among plural types of controlled units based on the sensor value and causes the selected controlled unit to execute a specified operation.

It is assumed that the mobile terminal device is in the suspend state. Then it is also assumed that the touch sensor performs the intermittent scan see and as for a sensor value acceleration value from the acceleration sensor included in the sensor unit the sensor value is output at the same scan rate as that of the intermittent scan.

First the touch sensor drive unit determines whether or not a fourth gesture operation achieved to start a shortcut function executing various functions without going through an application is performed on the touch panel step S . Here since the fourth gesture operation which is an exemplary specified input operation is not used to select a desired function to be executed it may be equivalent to or different from any one of the above described first to third gesture operations. When the fourth gesture operation is not detected the determination processing of step S is repeated.

Next it is determined whether or not the touch sensor detects a fifth gesture operation e.g. a double tap achieved to perform a quick operation step S . The fifth gesture operation includes for example an operation achieved by tapping the touch panel twice.

When the fifth gesture operation is not performed resume processing is started for the system step S . The resume processing described here is an alternative to the processing performed to start a home screen image by pressing the power key for example. Then the display unit is caused to display an unlocked home screen image and operations are continued in the state where the system wakes up.

When the fourth gesture operation is performed at step S the quick start detects the orientation of the mobile terminal device based on the sensor value received from the acceleration sensor step S . Then it is determined whether or not the orientation is the lateral direction of the mobile terminal device step S . Here the mobile terminal device being oriented in the lateral direction indicates being at rest in the state where the long side of the cabinet of the mobile terminal device is almost parallel to the horizontal. Further the mobile terminal device being oriented in a vertical direction indicates being at rest in the state where the long side of the cabinet of the mobile terminal device is almost parallel to a vertical line.

Upon determining that the mobile terminal device is oriented in the lateral direction the quick start instructs each unit to start the above described processing illustrated in . Then the imaging unit performs capture processing for an image of the subject which is obtained through imaging for display on the display unit step S . After that the camera application is started step S and the operations of the imaging unit are continued in the state where the system wakes up.

Upon determining that the mobile terminal device is oriented in the vertical direction the quick start instructs each unit to start the above described processing illustrated in . Then the voice processing unit causes the speaker to emit music of which reproduction is restarted from the spot where the music reproduction is stopped step S . After that the music reproduction application is started and the operations of the voice processing unit are continued in the state where the system wakes up.

The above described mobile terminal device according to the second embodiment determines the type of an operation input performed for the mobile terminal device based on a sensor value acceleration value from the acceleration sensor included in the sensor unit in addition to a gesture operation performed on the touch panel . At that time starting the music reproduction in accordance with a gesture operation performed in the state where the mobile terminal device is held in the vertical direction and immediately starting performing imaging with the imaging unit in accordance with a gesture operation performed in the state where the mobile terminal device is held in the lateral direction are achieved.

Further when the sensor unit includes a gyro sensor the direction in which the mobile terminal device is placed may be determined based on a sensor value transmitted from the gyro sensor. Likewise the orientation of the mobile terminal device may be determined through the use of a magnetic field sensor. Further at step S a transition to the unlocked screen image is caused when the tap operation is performed. However the processing of step S may be omitted. In that case the orientation of the mobile terminal device can be detected immediately after the shortcut function is started.

Further during branch processing of step S of it may be arranged that the unlocked screen image is displayed after the double tap is detected and a specified application is started after a password is input by the user.

Next the mobile terminal device according to a third embodiment of the present disclosure will be described with reference to .

The mobile terminal device according to the third embodiment immediately achieves a specific function when an operation input is performed on the touch panel in two steps.

In the mobile terminal device according to the third embodiment an application is immediately executed not only through the gesture operation performed at the first step. The gesture operation performed at the first step is only a preliminary operation and the application is executed through the gesture operation performed at the second step.

Then when the touch sensor detects that different gestures are performed plural times on the touch panel in predetermined order in the suspend state the touch sensor drive unit causes a controlled unit associated with a different input operation to execute a specified operation.

First it is assumed that the user performs an input operation in the state where the long side of the cabinet of the mobile terminal device is almost parallel to the horizontal. For example the gesture operation of the first step is an operation achieved by the user sweeping the touch panel in a Z shape when the mobile terminal device is in the suspend state see .

For starting a Web browser the user performs an operation by sweeping a finger from near the center of the touch panel toward the left direction in a straight line see as the gesture operation of the second step. After the operation the mobile terminal device connects to the Internet and the Web browser is started so that an accessed site can be displayed on the display unit see .

On the other hand for starting a gallery application of a picture the user performs an operation by sweeping a finger from near the center of the touch panel toward the right direction see as the gesture of the second step. After the operation the mobile terminal device can start the gallery application and display a shot image or video read from the storage unit on the display unit as a thumbnail see .

The above described mobile terminal device according to the third embodiment allows for starting plural types of applications by combining different gestures in two steps. As stated above the applications for starting include the Web browser the gallery application etc. When the gallery application is started a specific page may be displayed at the outset. Further when the Web browser is started a search page arranged to make a word search may be displayed so that the user can immediately make the word search. Further a specific URL may be specified as an argument parameter passed to an application on startup.

Further the gesture operation which exemplarily includes the operation achieved by sweeping the finger caused to touch the touch panel in a Z shape and that achieved by sweeping in the horizontal direction may be combined with a different gesture operation including for example an operation achieved by tapping or sweeping the touch panel in a circular shape. Further an application may be started by performing a two step gesture operation while holding the mobile terminal device in a vertical direction. Further gesture operations may be combined in three or more steps even though the combination leads to complicated operations.

Next the mobile terminal device according to a fourth embodiment of the present disclosure will be described with reference to .

The mobile terminal device according to the fourth embodiment displays a guide arranged to assist a gesture operation when the gesture operation ends in failure which makes it impossible to start an application.

The above described gesture operations that are performed according to the first to third embodiments are performed for the mobile terminal device which is in the suspend state. However since nothing is displayed on the display unit when the mobile terminal device is in the suspend state the gesture operations are often performed at wrong positions which makes it impossible to start an application see .

At that time when the touch sensor detects that a specified input operation is similar to a stipulated input operation the touch sensor drive unit causes the display unit to display a guide representing the stipulated input operation. Then when the touch sensor detects that an input operation performed again on the touch panel in accordance with the guide is the stipulated input operation a controlled unit associated with the stipulated input operation is instructed to execute a specified operation.

Specifically the mobile terminal device according to the fourth embodiment displays a guide on the display unit as a function of complementing a gesture operation see . For example when a gesture operation that can be detected with the touch sensor is an operation achieved by sweeping the touch panel in a Z shape near the center of the touch panel the guide displays a Z shaped effective area on the display unit .

At that time the user performs a gesture operation by referring to the guide displayed on the display unit see . When a sweeping operation is performed by a finger which is kept in contact with the touch panel in the effective area of the guide the touch sensor recognizes that the gesture operation is performed with increased reliability. Further the width of the displayed guide is wider than that of the finger. Therefore the user can perform the gesture operation while keeping the finger from deviating from the guide . When the gesture operation is recognized an application is successfully started and an application startup is performed see .

Further for displaying the guide the resume processing performed for the mobile terminal device operates. However the operation only causes the guide to be displayed without displaying a locked screen image. Further for determining that a gesture operation ends in failure it is necessary to make sure not to react in such a way as to deal with a gesture operation that ends in failure when a touch operation is performed in the case where the mobile terminal device is put into a pocket or a finger touches the touch panel just a little. This is because displaying the guide consumes too much power. Therefore it is desirable to make a comparison between a stipulated gesture operation and an operation detected with the touch sensor and display the guide when a similarity between the operations is confirmed.

First it is assumed that the system is in the suspend state step S . When the mobile terminal device is in the suspend state the intermittent scan is performed for the touch sensor to wait for the detection of a touch operation in the low power consumption mode step S .

The touch sensor detects that an operation similar to a gesture operation that wakes up the system referred to as wakeup gesture in the drawing is performed on the touch panel step S . At that time the touch sensor outputs a particular interrupt instruction to the touch sensor drive unit step S .

The touch sensor drive unit outputs an instruction to start resume processing performed for the system and start performing the resume processing to the control unit as the particular interrupt instruction step S . Consequently the control unit starts performing the resume processing for the system step S .

When the control unit starts performing the resume processing the touch sensor drive unit outputs a guide display request issued to display the guide to the quick start step S . Upon receiving the guide display request from the touch sensor drive unit the quick start outputs the guide display request to the multimedia middleware step S . Here the multimedia middleware has a guide display function provided to find a gesture operation similar to a hard to determine operation when the operation is performed on the touch panel and cause the display unit to display the guide .

Upon receiving the guide display request from the touch sensor drive unit the multimedia middleware outputs an instruction to perform the guide display to the display processing unit step S . Then the display processing unit stores an image of the guide in the frame buffer . The display unit displays the guide based on the image read from the frame buffer step S . After that the control unit causes the system to enter the wakeup state step S and waits until a gesture operation is input again. At that time the system is in a guide display mode where the guide is displayed on the display unit .

When the touch sensor detects a gesture operation that wakes up the system in the guide display mode step S the touch sensor outputs an instruction requesting that the system be woken up to the touch sensor drive unit step S . An instruction to start the resume processing performed for the system and start performing the resume processing is output to the control unit step S . Consequently the control unit causes the system to enter the wakeup state step S .

After that the touch sensor drive unit outputs a guide display request to display the guide to the multimedia middleware step S . Further an instruction to update and display a menu image attained in the usual state on the display unit is output from the system which had entered the wakeup state to the frame buffer step S . The frame buffer performs processing to update the menu image displayed on the display unit step S .

The above described mobile terminal device according to the fourth embodiment is effective when a gesture operation that wakes up the system cannot be recognized due to a drag position drift etc. In that case when an operation similar to a stipulated gesture operation is performed the guide is displayed on the display unit so that an operation is performed again. Then a specified function is executed based on a gesture operation performed along the guide . Consequently since no image is displayed on the mobile terminal device which is in the suspend state the user who had failed in a gesture operation is allowed to perform a gesture operation along the guide at the re operation time so that an input operation can be performed with reliability.

Further when a gesture operation ends in failure the system is not fully woken up. However the system changes to the guide display mode and continuously waits until a gesture operation is performed. Then after detecting an appropriate gesture operation performed again the system wakes up into the usual state. From then on the screen image update operations and so forth are performed in the usual state.

Further it may be arranged that the locus of a gesture operation is displayed on the operation surface of the touch panel . The displayed locus allows the user to easily recognize how the input operation ends in failure.

Next the mobile terminal device according to a fifth embodiment of the present disclosure will be described with reference to through .

In each of the described embodiments a user may change a predetermined contact of an input operation from a touch panel. For example a user may change a predetermined gesture or predetermined multiple locations to be touched simultaneously to start a camera application to a new contact by changing a setting from the touch panel. Based on the change of the setting by the user processing circuitry changes the predetermined contact of the input operation required to execute a specific operation to the new predetermined contact.

Incidentally the above described functions according to the first to fourth embodiments may be used separately or arbitrarily combined with one another. Further the type of a gesture operation is not limited to the above described embodiments so that a combination of the pinch operation and the tap operation may be provided. Thus the combination of a gesture operation a function and so forth may be appropriately changed based on specifications of the mobile terminal device .

Further a series of processings according to the above described embodiments is often executed by software. In that case the execution is enabled by a computer having specifically designed hardware where a program constituting the software is installed or a computer where a program achieved to execute various functions is installed. For example a program constituting desired software may be installed in a general purpose computer etc. for the execution.

Further a storage medium storing program code of software for implementing the functions of the above described embodiments may be supplied to a system or an apparatus. Further it is needless to say that a computer or a control device such as a CPU of the system or the apparatus may read and execute the program code stored in the storage medium so that the functions are implemented.

The storage medium provided for supplying the program code may include for example a flexible disk a hard disk an optical disk a magneto optical disk a CD ROM a CD R a magnetic tape a non volatile memory card a ROM etc.

Further the functions of the above described embodiments are implemented by the computer reading and executing the program code. Additionally an OS or the like running on the computer executes part of or the entire actual processing based on instructions from the program code. The functions of the above described embodiments may be implemented by the processing which constitutes another embodiment. Further the processings according to the present embodiments may be constituted by hardware instead of being executed by software as stated above.

Further it is taken for granted that the present disclosure is not limited to the above described embodiments but may be applied and modified in different and various ways without leaving the spirit of the present disclosure which is written in the claims. To this end it should be understood by those skilled in the art that various modifications combinations and other exemplary embodiments may occur depending on design and or other factors insofar as they are within the scope of the claims or the equivalents thereof as a matter of course.

an input detection unit configured to detect a pattern of the input operation based on a position of the indicator on the touch panel and decrease a frequency of execution of processing arranged to detect the input operation performed on the touch panel when the input operation performed on the touch panel is not detected over a specified time period and

an operation determination unit configured to instruct a controlled unit determined to be an operation target based on the pattern of the input operation to execute a specified operation when the pattern of the input operation is detected in the case where the execution frequency of the processing arranged to detect the input operation is low.

wherein when the input detection unit detects that the specified input operation is performed on the touch panel in a suspend state 

wherein when the input detection unit detects that an input operation different from the specified input operation is performed on the touch panel in the suspend state 

the operation determination unit starts the operation of the imaging unit through the imaging drive unit and causes the display unit to display an image obtained by imaging performed with the imaging unit.

a voice processing unit configured to perform voice processing for voice data and cause the sound emitting unit to emit a voice 

wherein when the input detection unit detects that a specified input operation is performed on the touch panel in the suspend state 

the operation determination unit causes the voice processing to start performing voice processing and causes the sound emitting unit to emit a voice.

wherein when the input detection unit detects that a specified input operation is performed on the touch panel in the suspend state 

the operation determination unit selects a single the controlled unit from among plural types of the controlled units based on the sensor value and causes the selected controlled unit to execute a specified operation.

wherein when the input detection unit detects that different input operations are performed on the touch panel plural times in a predetermined order in the suspend state 

the operation determination unit causes the controlled unit associated with a different input operation to execute a specified operation.

wherein when the input detection unit detects that the specified input operation is similar to a stipulated input operation the operation determination unit causes the display unit to display a guide representing the stipulated input operation and instructs the controlled unit associated with the stipulated input operation to execute a specified operation when the input detection unit detects that an input operation performed on the touch panel again in accordance with the guide is the stipulated input operation.

wherein when the pattern of the input operation is detected in the suspend state the operation determination unit starts middleware and causes a specified operation to be executed from the middleware for the controlled unit determined to be an operation target in relation to the pattern of the input operation.

wherein the suspend state is a state where at least application software and the middleware are not started and

wherein in the controlled unit an operation is controlled via the application software and the middleware when the input operation performed on the touch panel is achieved in a state where the application software is started and an operation is controlled via the middleware in the suspend state.

a step of detecting a pattern of an input operation based on a position of an indicator by which an input operation is performed on a touch panel 

a step of detecting the pattern of the input operation based on the position of the indicator on the touch panel and decreasing a frequency of execution of processing arranged to detect the input operation performed on the touch panel when the input operation performed on the touch panel is not detected over a specified time period and a step of instructing a controlled unit determined to be an operation target based on the pattern of the input operation to execute a specified operation when the pattern of the input operation is detected in the case where the execution frequency of the processing arranged to detect the input operation is low.

a procedure for detecting a pattern of an input operation based on a position of an indicator by which an input operation is performed on a touch panel 

a procedure for detecting the pattern of the input operation based on the position of the indicator on the touch panel and decreasing a frequency of execution of processing arranged to detect the input operation performed on the touch panel when the input operation performed on the touch panel is not detected over a specified time period and

a procedure for instructing a controlled unit determined to be an operation target based on the pattern of the input operation to execute a specified operation when the pattern of the input operation is detected in the case where the execution frequency of the processing arranged to detect the input operation is low.

a procedure for detecting a pattern of an input operation based on a position of an indicator by which an input operation is performed on a touch panel 

a procedure for detecting the pattern of the input operation based on the position of the indicator on the touch panel and decreasing a frequency of execution of processing arranged to detect the input operation performed on the touch panel when the input operation performed on the touch panel is not detected over a specified time period and

a procedure for instructing a controlled unit determined to be an operation target based on the pattern of the input operation to execute a specified operation when the pattern of the input operation is detected in the case where the execution frequency of the processing arranged to detect the input operation is low.

