---

title: Event planning within social networks
abstract: Generating and updating event presentation user interfaces. Embodiments include identifying a first geographical location of a first computing device corresponding to a first invitee to an event, and a second geographical location of a second computing device corresponding to a second invitee. An event presentation user interface is generated, to include a first invitee presence indicator indicating that the first invitee is within a predetermined distance from a geographical location of the event, and a second invitee presence indicator indicating the second invitee is outside of the predetermined distance from the geographical location of the event. Based at least on the second computing device having moved to a third geographical location that is within the predetermined distance from the geographical location of the event, the second invitee presence indicator is updated to indicate that the second invitee is within the predetermined distance from the geographical location of the event.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09432826&OS=09432826&RS=09432826
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09432826
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160126
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 956 162 filed Nov. 30 2010 entitled EVENT PLANNING WITHIN SOCIAL NETWORKS and which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 9 253 615 on Feb. 2 2016. The entire content of the foregoing application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Within the field of computing many scenarios involve a social network such as a database of users and associations established thereamong to represent various types of relationships e.g. familial relations friendships and academic professional and business relationships . For example a user in a social network may establish a set of contacts such as individuals with whom the user has a relationship and may generate content items such as personal status messages private messages photos links to other resources such as websites and commentaries that may be accessible by such contacts who may submit comments and relies to such content items.

Within a social network a set of users may create an event. For example a user may create a listing for an event such as a party occurring at a specific date time and location and may provide details about the event. Other users such as contacts of the user may comment on the event such as an intent of a guest to attend or skip the event. The social network may therefore facilitate the advertising of the event to the contacts of a user and communication among guests about the event and the set of potential attendees.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

While contemporary social networks may facilitate a user in advertising an event contemporary social networks do not significantly assist a set of users in deciding on the details of an event. For example an event may have many details such as a time a place an event location and a set of activities to be performed. The social network may permit a user who is responsible for the event such as the creator of the event to specify the details and to alter the details based on changing circumstances but may not promote the decisions of guests in proposing considering and selecting the details of the event. For example a contemporary social network may permit a user to propose a group dinner at a particular date time and restaurant but may not permit the user to propose the idea of a group dinner with some or all undetermined event details for which guests may propose suggestions such as a proposed date or time a proposed restaurant or a restaurant type. That is social networks may be proficient at allowing a user to advertise an event for which event details have been settled but may not be proficient at allowing a set of users to plan an event together.

Presented herein are techniques for configuring a device within a social network to facilitate a set of users such as a user and a set of contacts to plan an event together. According to these techniques a user of the social network may propose an event plan such as a shared meal a party or a trip and a set of contacts within the social network to be invited to attend the event. The social network may then extend invitations to the contacts and may accept and store from the guests including the user who created the event and the contacts who have been invited to attend event plan suggestions for various details of the event plan such as a date time duration location other individuals to invite and activities to be performed. The social network may then present the event plan including the event plan suggestions for various event plan details to a guest of the event plan who wishes to view the current event plan suggestions to participate in the planning of the event and or to consider participating in the event. Guests may also contribute event plan suggestions such as search results generated by a search engine such as links to menus of restaurants in the area of the guests and a map illustrating the locations of restaurants suggested by the guests. The social network may also facilitate the planning of the event e.g. by providing a mechanism for allowing guests to vote on various proposals in order to reach a consensus on event plan suggestions for various event plan details and or by recommending particular event plan suggestions e.g. comparing user ratings of respective restaurants suggested for a meal shared among the guests and choosing a restaurant having a suitably high user rating . In this manner the social network may assist in the suggestion consideration and selection of event plan details of the event plan among the users of the social network.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Within the field of computing many scenarios involve a social network comprising a representation of a set of individuals and relationships thereamong. Such relationships may represent e.g. familial relations friendships shared membership in a group or activity or academic or professional relationships. The social network may permit a user to establish a set of contacts with whom the individual shares a relationship. Each user may then create a set of content items such as personal status messages commentaries on particular topics links to other items of interest such as hyperlinks to web pages and other resources media objects such as images and messages to one or more contacts. These contact items may be viewed by the contacts of the user who may respond with other content items e.g. comments on items posted by the user . The social network may facilitate these interactions by promoting the establishment of relationships exchanging messages and notifications and extending access to a user s content items for the contacts of the user while restricting access by other individuals in order to protect the privacy of the user.

Within a social network a set of users may wish to create an event. This event may represent e.g. an offline meeting an online activity a memorable occasion such as a holiday or an activity or concept to which each guest of the event may attend on a particular day and or time. A user of the social network may therefore create an event within the social network e.g. by posting a set of event details such as the date time location and a description of the intent of the event and the activities to be performed there. This event may be viewable by the contacts of the user who may submit event attendance indicators e.g. RSVP indicators to indicate whether or not each contact intends to attend the event. The guests may also submit comments relating to the event.

While the exemplary scenario of may be useful for representing an event and extending access to the event to a set of guests this model for events within social networks may be less helpful for the planning of events . That is the exemplary scenario of may be advantageous for presenting events for which the event details are well settled and may permit the user who created the event to edit the event details after creation however this model for events is not particularly effective for assisting the guests in choosing the event details of the event . For example if the user proposes a general activity to be shared with a set of contacts such as a shared dinner at a restaurant the social network may accept a set of event details specified by the user and may permit the user to change such event details at a later date but the social network does not assist the guests in choosing event details of this event such as the date including the time and the selection of a restaurant. The guests might discuss the event details using the social network in an unstructured manner e.g. by exchanging various comments that may be associated and displayed with the event and if the guests reach a consensus about an event detail the social network may permit the user who created the event to change the updated event details . However in many conventional social networks this process is unstructured and mainly implemented by the user who created the event because the social network does not facilitate the selection of event details among the guests of the event .

Presented herein are techniques for providing a social network such as a configuration of one or more servers that store and present the data comprising the social network that facilitates event planning among a set of users . In accordance with these techniques a social network may permit a user to create an event plan comprising a set of event details to be determined by the guests of the event . For example in contract with the exemplary scenario of where the user specifies the event details e.g. the event is to occur at a particular date time and location a user may instead be permitted to specify an event plan comprising a set of event details to be determined such as the date and time of the event and the location of the event . The user may then invite a set of contacts and the user and contacts together comprising the guests of the event plan may submit event plan suggestions to the social network to suggest respective event details of the event . The social network may track the event plan suggestions and may present the event plan suggestions to the guests upon request. The social network may also facilitate the selection of a particular event plan suggestion among a set of alternatives e.g. by permitting guests to vote among the event plan suggestions and by presenting as an event detail the event plan suggestion having the highest number of votes.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to apply the techniques presented herein. Such computer readable media may include e.g. computer readable storage media involving a tangible device such as a memory semiconductor e.g. a semiconductor utilizing static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM and or synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM technologies a platter of a hard disk drive a flash memory device or a magnetic or optical disc such as a CD R DVD R or floppy disc encoding a set of computer readable instructions that when executed by a processor of a device cause the device to implement the techniques presented herein. Such computer readable media may also include as a class of technologies that are distinct from computer readable storage media various types of communications media such as a signal that may be propagated through various physical phenomena e.g. an electromagnetic signal a sound wave signal or an optical signal and in various wired scenarios e.g. via an Ethernet or fiber optic cable and or wireless scenarios e.g. a wireless local area network WLAN such as WiFi a personal area network PAN such as Bluetooth or a cellular or radio network and which encodes a set of computer readable instructions that when executed by a processor of a device cause the device to implement the techniques presented herein.

The techniques discussed herein may be devised with variations in many aspects and some variations may present additional advantages and or reduce disadvantages with respect to other variations of these and other techniques. Moreover some variations may be implemented in combination and some combinations may feature additional advantages and or reduced disadvantages through synergistic cooperation. The variations may be incorporated in various embodiments e.g. the exemplary method of and the exemplary system of to confer individual and or synergistic advantages upon such embodiments.

A first aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the scenarios wherein such techniques may be utilized. As a first example these techniques may be applied to many types of social networks including social networks representing real world relationships such as familial relations and friendships academic social networks representing connections among students and teachers professional social networks representing professional associations among colleagues and themed social networks representing connections among users sharing an interest such as participation in an online game. As a second example of this first aspect the event plan may be public viewable by any user of the social network and possibly letting any such user join the event plan as a guest and or private e.g. only accessible to guests of the event plan . As a third example of this first aspect these techniques may be utilized to facilitate the planning of many types of events such as real world meetings in a particular location a distributed activity taking place in various locations a commemorative event such as a holiday or an online activity. Those of ordinary skill in the art may devise many types of scenarios wherein the techniques presented herein may be utilized.

A second aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the creation of an event plan by a user . As a first example a user may specify a completely empty event plan simply indicating that a particular set of guests including the user and a designated set of contacts may decide to participate in an activity together. Alternatively the user may specify one or more event plan suggestions while creating the event plan e.g. some initial suggestions for the event plan that may be taken under consideration by the guests .

As a second example of this second aspect the user creating the event plan may specify one or more event plan details for the event plan . These event plan details may add some structure to the event plan such as particular types of event details of the event that are to be determined by the guests through the submission of event plan suggestions . Guests may then submit event plan suggestions relating to one or more event plan details of the event plan . For example a user may create an event representing a dinner to be shared among a group of contacts and comprising a first event plan detail indicating a to be determined date and time of the event a second event plan detail indicating a to be determined location of the event such as a restaurant and a third event plan detail indicating a to be determined type of food to be consumed at the event . Guests may then submit event plan suggesting relating to one or more of the event plan details of the event plan . The inclusion of event plan details may therefore add structure to the event plan such that event plan suggestions may be grouped and considered according to different event plan details e.g. event plan suggestions relating for the date of an event may be grouped and considered together and event plan suggestions relating to an event location of the event may also be grouped and considered together . Such event plan details representing various to be determined aspects of an event may be selected from a set of event plan details including an event title detail e.g. an event type detail e.g. the type of event an event guest detail e.g. particular guests to be invited to the event by the current guests an event date time detail e.g. a date and time of the event an event duration detail an event location detail e.g. an area of town or a general type of location where the event may be held such as a meal in a residence a picnic held in a park or a meal at a restaurant an event venue detail e.g. a particular location where the event is to be held and an event activity detail e.g. a particular activity to be performed by the guests at the event .

An additional variation of this second example of this second aspect relates to the use of event plan templates. For example a device configured according to the techniques presented herein such as a server of a social network may store one or more event plan templates each of which may specify a particular set of event plan details for event plans of a particular event type. As one such example the device may store a first event plan template for a shared meal among a set of friends which may include such event plan details as a date a general area for the meal e.g. an area of a town where the friends reside a type of restaurant and or cuisine and a price range and a second plan event plan template for a party which include such event plan details as a date a duration a theme for the party and the types of activities to be performed at the party. When a user creates an event plan the device may permit the user to specify an event type and may automatically associate with the event plan a set of event plan details that are appropriate for the event plan based on the selected event type.

As a third example of this second aspect the user may specify contacts to join an event plan in many ways. For example the user may specify that all such users may be invited as guests or may designate a particular subset of contacts among the entire set of contacts of the user within the social network . Such designation may be ad hoc e.g. selected by the user while creating the event plan or may be based on one or more contact groups e.g. a previously selected subset of contacts . The user may also specify particular criteria for inviting guests to join the event plan e.g. the user may invite as guests all contacts located within a specified proximity of the user such as those currently located in the same city. Those of ordinary skill in the art may devise many ways of allowing users to create event plans and invite guests while implementing the techniques presented herein.

A third aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the event plan suggestions submitted by various guests of an event plan . As a first example the event plan suggestions may comprise many types of items such as unformatted text formatted data types e.g. a date primitive value a media object such as an image or a hyperlink to a resource such as a website that features the content of the suggestion such as a website of a restaurant where the guest suggests having dinner.

As yet another variation of this first example of this third aspect the social network may automatically generate one or more search queries and may automatically include one or more search results as event plan suggestions recommended by the social network . For example if the event plan suggestions indicate that the guests are planning to have dinner in a particular area of a city on a particular date and wish to have a particular type of cuisine the social network may formulate an appropriate search query for restaurants matching these criteria and may include the search results as event plan recommendations in presentations of the event pan .

As a second example of this third aspect a guest of an event plan may submit an event plan suggestion as an alternative event plan suggestion for a particular event plan detail . For example guests may submit several event plan suggestions for a particular event plan detail that may be satisfied only by a limited number of event plan suggestions e.g. the guests may have to choose one among several event plan suggestions associated with a date event plan detail and a subset of event plan suggestions associated with an activity event plan detail for an event that may only be long enough to include a few activities . Therefore one or more event plan suggestions may be regarded as alternative event plan suggestions that are mutually exclusive with respect to a particular event plan detail . The social network may denote the mutual exclusivity of two or more alternative event plan suggestions in presentations of the event plan to guests in order to encourage a selection thereamong.

In some variations of this second example of this third aspect the social network may assist the guests in selecting among the alternative event plan suggestions. As a first example guests may submit alternative event plan suggestion votes that indicate a preference for a first alternative event plan suggestion over a second alternative event plan suggestion. The social network may receive alternative event plan suggestion votes and may store the votes in the data store and may select and present a selected event plan suggestion based on the alternative event plan suggestion votes stored in the data store e.g. the alternative event plan suggestion having the highest number of votes or all alternative event plan suggestions having a sufficiently high number of votes . As a second example the social network may identify a recommended alternative event plan suggestion e.g. the event plan suggestions offered by guests for a shared meal may include a first restaurant that has been highly rated by patrons and a second restaurant that has been poorly rated by patrons and the social network may include such recommendations as recommended alternative event plan suggestions in presentations of the event plan .

A fourth aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the presentation of an event plan to a guest . As a first example in addition to the event plan suggestions the event plan presentation may explicitly or implicitly indicate the event plan details of the event plan and may also explicitly or implicitly indicate the association of such event plan details with one or more event plan suggestions . The event plan presentation may also include an indication that one or more event plan suggestions are alternative event plan suggestions for a particular event plan detail e.g. indicating a mutual exclusivity of such event plan suggestions and may also indicate a selected event plan suggestion thereamong e.g. by including an indication of alternative event plan suggestion votes and or recommendations .

As a second example of this fourth aspect an event plan may be associated with one or more locations and an event plan presentation of an event plan may include an indication of the locations involved in the event plan . As a first such example presents an illustration of an exemplary scenario featuring a map of various event plan suggestions involved in an event plan that includes indicators of the event locations . As a second such example presents an illustration of an exemplary scenario featuring a visual depiction of the event locations associated with various event plan suggestions for an event plan . This visual depiction may be generated e.g. based on images of the locations captured by individuals and stored in an image database or by synthesizing a visual depiction thereof e.g. a three dimensional model of an event location . Those of ordinary skill in the art may devise many ways of presenting an event plan to a guest while implementing the techniques presented herein.

A fifth aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to additional features that may be offered by the social network in relation to the event plan and that may be included by the social network in event plan presentations of the event plans . As a first example guests may submit event plan comments associated with an event plan and possibly associated with a particular event plan detail and or event plan suggestion . Accordingly the social network may be configured to store received event plan comments in the data store associated with the event plan and to present the event plan comments associated with the event plan as part of an event plan presentation . As a second example of this fifth aspect guests may submit event attendance indicators e.g. RSVP indicators associated with an event plan to indicate whether or not the guest plans to attend the event . Accordingly the social network may be configured to store received event attendance indicators in the data store associated with the event plan and to present the event attendance indicators associated with the event plan as part of an event plan presentation .

As a third example of this fifth aspect the social network may receive and utilize a location of a guest and may use the guest location in the event plan presentation . The guest location may comprise a current location of the guest e.g. detected by a global positioning service GPS receiver and reported to the social network or a probabilistic location of the guest e.g. an address of a residence of a guest or a location of the guest identified based on a calendar of the activities of the guest . The guest location may be utilized e.g. to include the guest location on a map of the event plan and or to present a route that may facilitate the guest in traveling to the event location.

As a fourth example of this fifth aspect if an event plan involves an event location and if the social network receives reports of guest locations of various guests e.g. from global positioning service GPS receivers carried by respective guests then the social network may include the guest locations in an event plan presentation . For example the event plan presentation may include a map depicting the guest locations recently detected for the guests . Additionally if a proximity may be identified for the event location the guest locations may be utilized to identify the presence of guests whose guest locations are proximate to the event location and an absence of guests whose guest locations are not proximate to the event location . For example an event plan presentation of the event plan may include a list of present guests and absent guests and guests may be notified when other guests arrive at or depart from the event based on the detected guest locations .

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

