---

title: Silicon force sensor and method of using the same
abstract: The various technologies presented herein relate to a sensor for measurement of high forces and/or high load shock rate(s), whereby the sensor utilizes silicon as the sensing element. A plate of Si can have a thinned region formed therein on which can be formed a number of traces operating as a Wheatstone bridge. The brittle Si can be incorporated into a layered structure comprising ductile and/or compliant materials. The sensor can have a washer-like configuration which can be incorporated into a nut and bolt configuration, whereby tightening of the nut and bolt can facilitate application of a compressive preload upon the sensor. Upon application of an impact load on the bolt, the compressive load on the sensor can be reduced (e.g., moves towards zero-load), however the magnitude of the preload can be such that the load on the sensor does not translate to tensile stress being applied to the sensor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09459161&OS=09459161&RS=09459161
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09459161
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160601
---
This application is a divisional of prior U.S. application Ser. No. 14 064 573 filed Oct. 28 2013 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was developed under contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Designing sensors that can measure and survive shock loads in extremely harsh real world environments while still providing a high signal to noise S N ratio and significant bandwidth can be difficult. Further a small sensor form factor e.g. a microelectromechanical systems MEMS sensor can be necessary to prevent the sensor deleteriously affecting the structure under load while facilitating arrayed and embedded applications. Possible applications for a very small sensor that can survive high shock loads and provide a high S N ratio with a high bandwidth can include crash test dummy instrumentation impact forensics embedded sensors in smart surfaces for lifetime structural health monitoring etc. Such sensors can indicate when a structural element e.g. an aircraft wing a bridge pylon etc. has experienced an out of bounds load due to an extreme event e.g. an explosion an earthquake etc. . A small sensor can also find application measuring a system response to impact loads as well as for validating modeling and simulation tools.

There are three main types of normal load pressure sensors capacitive piezoelectric and piezoresistive. Each type has performance and manufacturing advantages and shortcomings associated therewith. Capacitive sensors typically have a very small signal e.g. change in capacitance relative to the overall sensor capacitance associated with the complete circuit. Accordingly a parasitic capacitance associated with signal lines on a chip separated from a chip ground by a thin oxide layer can be difficult to avoid as the ground is intimately connected to the sensing element. Such factors tend to reduce the signal to noise ratio for a capacitive sensor. Further tight tolerances on the small sensing capacitor gap can also be problematic as a very small gap is desirable to achieve higher sensitivity however a very small gap can limit a range of gap deformation and further lead to an increase in sensor response signal variability as a function of dimensional variability of the gap.

Piezoelectric sensing elements are typically quartz crystals which require poling and assembly including bonding of the crystal into an electronic package. Recent advances in the fabrication of piezoelectric thin films are facilitating monolithic fabrication of piezoelectric sensors with a reduction in the reliance on adhesives at the critical sensing element level. An advantage of piezoelectric sensors is that they can generate an output voltage with no input voltage required although an input voltage is required for any in package signal amplification or processing electronics. However piezoelectric sensors lack a robustness required to survive dynamic shock loads of a high magnitude.

Typically a DC signal e.g. a low frequency response is not sensed in a piezoelectric sensor while it can be for a piezoresistive sensor. Additionally monolithic fabrication techniques for piezoresistive silicon Si sensing elements are well developed. Si has a large piezoresistive gage factor can be mass fabricated has a high elastic modulus and possesses a high ultimate strength in uniaxial compression. However Si is a brittle material with tensile and flexural strengths being much lower in comparison with its compressive strength performance. Such material properties can render measurement of highly dynamic loads problematic with a Si sensor material. An application which can be particularly problematic is where dynamic loading can induce tensile stress waves into structural components which can lead to the generation of microcracking in the Si sensor material.

The various exemplary non limiting embodiments presented herein relate to a sensor which can measure and survive shock loading while still providing a high signal noise ratio with significant bandwidth are presented. In an exemplary non limiting embodiment a load sensing system can comprise a load sensor comprising a piezoresistive sensor. The load sensing system can further comprise a load application component configured to locate the load sensor on a supporting structure. In a further embodiment the load application component can apply a compressive preload to the load sensor wherein the compressive preload results in application of a compressive load to the piezoresistive sensor. And in a further embodiment while under an operational load the load application component can effect a relaxation in the compressive load on the piezoresistive sensor.

A further exemplary non limiting embodiment comprises a method for measuring a load while providing a high signal noise ratio with significant bandwidth. The method can comprise applying a compressive preload to a piezoresistive device wherein the compressive preload is greater in magnitude than an operating range of operational loads. The method can further comprise transmitting an operational load within the operating range to the piezoresistive device so as to produce a reduction in the compressive preload. The method can further comprise measuring the reduction in the compressive preload to facilitate determining a magnitude of the operational load.

A further exemplary non limiting embodiment comprises a load sensing system wherein the system can comprise a load sensor comprising at least one piezoresistive sensor a first washer and a load application component. In an embodiment the load application component can comprise a nut and bolt the bolt comprising a bolthead a boltshaft and a threaded portion of the boltshaft. The load application component can be configured to locate the load sensor and the first washer on a supporting structure wherein the bolt is located in a hole extending from an outer surface of the supporting structure to an inner surface of the supporting structure. The bolt can be located such that the bolthead is situated proximal to the outer surface and the boltshaft extends through the hole beyond the inner surface. In an embodiment the first washer can be situated between the bolthead and the outer surface. The load application component can be further configured to apply a compressive preload to the load sensor by tightening the nut on the boltshaft resulting in application of a compressive load to the at least one piezoresistive sensor. In an embodiment the compressive load can generate a first voltage state at the at least one piezoresistive sensor. The load application component can be further configured to receive an operational load on the bolthead. The operational load can cause a compression of the washer and the operational load can be transferred along the boltshaft causing a relaxation in the compressive preload on the load sensor. In an embodiment the relaxed compressive load can generate a second voltage state at the at least one piezoresistive sensor.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to a sensor which can measure and survive shock loading while still providing a high S N ratio with a significant bandwidth are presented wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

Further the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

The various embodiments presented herein relate to a sensor configured to measure high magnitude forces over a wide bandwidth where such forces can range from static loading through repetitive loading extending to frequencies of several hundred kilohertz kHz or more. In an embodiment the sensor can be configured as a washer like device and can include at least one embedded piezoresistive sensing element e.g. a MEMS based sensor . In a further embodiment the sensing element can be formed from Si. A Si sensing element can be fabricated to include a photolithographically patterned strain gage s on a deformable sense plate to provide a high sensitivity linear response e.g. about 1 10 mV 1000 lbf i.e. about 0.2 2 mV kN to input loads of up to about 10 000 lbf about 45000 N . The patterned strain gages or wires facilitate operation of the sensor as a bridge circuit to generate a measurable voltage difference. As described herein a range of sensors can be fabricated to operate over a range of applied loads by implementing relatively simple design changes for example changing the diameter of a sense plate region changing the thickness of a sense plate region etc. Small Si sensing elements e.g. of about 10 m to about 100 m in diameter enable multiple sensors to be embedded in a washer like device to facilitate redundant load measurement and further enable a determination of loading direction e.g. off axis angled or side loads by comparing outputs from sensors at different locations on the washer.

Readily available non brittle engineering materials having ductile and or compliant properties can be utilized to package the Si sensor die s in a layered material stack arrangement that can protect the brittle Si to facilitate survival of impact loads of a high magnitude s For example the enclosing materials can act to dampen undesirable high frequency signals that may cause damage to the Si and associated components. Such materials can include glass reinforced epoxy laminate sheets e.g. a printed circuit board PCB copper Cu polyimide aluminum Al steel etc. A low level micro compressive preload can be applied to the sensor to ensure that any gaps in the material stack are closed. Prior to operation a high level macro compressive preload can be applied the sensor system including the Si sensing element. The magnitude of the macro preload may be selected e.g. such that irrespective of the operational loading on the sensor system the Si sensing element will always experience compressive loading.

The sensor design s facilitates control of a stress level at the Si sensor die and thus the effective load range of the sensor while maintaining a high S N ratio e.g. of greater than about 100 1 . Further the various sensor designs presented herein are amenable to scalable manufacturing take advantage of the high sensitivity and high compressive strength of Si and they facilitate integration of the sensor with other sensors and actuators as part of a complete impact response system. Further owing to application of a piezoresistive sensor sensor response is typically linear e.g. as compared with a quadratic response for a capacitive sensor whereby the linear response can ease calibration and electronic signal conditioning.

As also shown in at least one sensing element can be located inside the load sensor with design and operation of the sensing element s described further herein particularly with reference to . The bolt comprises a bolthead a boltshaft and a threaded portion of the boltshaft onto which the nut can be attached e.g. nut can be threaded onto the boltshaft . Bolt is located in a hole formed e.g. drilled in the housing with the boltshaft and the threaded portion located in the hole . The bolthead is located in a recess formed in the housing about the hole e.g. recess is a countersunk hole . In an embodiment the bolthead can be situated proximal to an outer surface or sidewall such that a load e.g. Pas further described herein applied to the outer surface also acts in part on the bolthead . The base of the recess acts to retain the bolthead while the boltshaft extends through the hole and protrudes from an inner sidewall or surface of the housing opposite to the recess . Load sensor having a washer like configuration can be located on boltshaft . Nut can be utilized to locate the sensor against the inner sidewall . Such locating of sensor against the inner sidewall by nut may be performed e.g. by tightening nut . The tightening of nut can further act to apply tension T on bolt which locates bolthead in recess . Electrical connection to the sensing elements can be via connector with signals e.g. a change in voltage applied to the at least one sensing element being transmitted and or received by load measuring system . Based on electrical changes at one or more sensing elements such as element a state of the at least one sensing element can be determined such as the difference between a first state e.g. a preloaded state and a second state e.g. under impact loading . For example an impact load can cause a relaxation in the preloaded state of a load sensor as further described below and the one or more sensing elements such as element can include a Wheatstone bridge whereby the change from the first loading state to the second loading state causes a change in voltage across the Wheatstone bridge. The Wheatstone bridge facilitates measurement of the load on a sensing element by balancing the resistance in two legs of the bridge circuit.

It is to be appreciated that the term locate is utilized herein to convey positioning and or attachment of a component e.g. a first component relative to a second component. For example the first component can be located adjacent to the second component. In another example the first component can be located with reference to the second component hence while the first component and second component may not be adjacent or touching the second component e.g. load sensor may be located with reference to a first component e.g. any of an inner sidewall recess hole etc. where the second component is separated from the first component by a third component e.g. any of washers or as further described below .

In an embodiment rather than placing the load sensor under direct compressive loading e.g. the load sensor is located between the nut and the housing as shown e.g. in a plurality of gapping components e.g. washers and can be utilized to apply a compressive preload P to the load sensor . Application of a preload can facilitate linearization of the response of load sensor as a function of a reduction in the compressive loading of the sensing element s located inside the load sensor as further described herein. In an embodiment washer can be located i.e. situated in the recess between the bolthead and the bottom of the recess . Washers and can be located on boltshaft e.g. washer can be located between the load sensor and sidewall while washer can be located between the load sensor and the nut as illustrated in .

Washers and can be formed from a material having a ductile and or compliant nature such that during application of either of Por P a load e.g. Lat washer and Lat washer is maintained on load sensor where such materials include in a non exhaustive list Cu Al polyimide steel PCB etc. Washers and can be formed from a resilient material per the above which can have a degree of elastic recovery such that as a load is intermittently placed on any of washers or the washer can be compressed and upon removal of the intermittent load the washer can expand back to or near to an original size thereby compensating for the various dimensional changes in structure as the load is applied and removed.

A high degree of damping can increase a load survivable by load sensor but typically e.g. with a conventional load sensor such damping can lead to a reduction in the bandwidth where bandwidth herein relates to the frequency range and or highest frequency being measured during loading. Accordingly the configuration illustrated in facilitates protection of the load sensor whereby any of the washers and or in conjunction with the bolt and nut can act to absorb a damaging portion of an impact load Pwhile imparting a known portion of the load Pthrough the load sensor and accordingly any sensing element s included therein .

In an embodiment a macroscopic preload can be applied to the load sensor and accordingly any sensing element s included therein based upon tightening of nut along bolt thread . In another embodiment a microscopic preload can be applied to a sensing element based upon fabrication of the load sensor as further described herein.

During preloading P of the load sensor tightening of nut along bolt thread can place the load sensor and washers under compression loading C and accordingly place the bolt in a state of preload tension T with the compressive and tensile loading being respectively applied by the shoulder of bolt and working face of nut . During operation application of an impact load P on the exposed upper surface of bolthead e.g. in direction F can act to reduce the preload tension T in the bolt and thereby reduce the Pcompression C on the load sensor . In an embodiment if a transmitted portion of the impact load Pdoes not exceed the Pcompression C applied to the load sensor the load sensor and accordingly any sensing element s included therein can survive application of impact load Pas the load sensor has already withstood the more controlled e.g. low loading rate application of P.

For example sensing element s can always be in a state of compression or near compression where in an example if P 10000N and P 4700N the sensing element is still experiencing a compressive load of 5300N. Furthermore in another embodiment the application of Pcan also ensure that the load sensor is in a state of compression of sufficient magnitude to facilitate linear response of the load sensor during application of the impact load P. Effectively application of the Pcan remove any gaps or looseness in the hardware stack e.g. components and and also components included in sensor as described below resulting in a tight component assembly that can smoothly transmit a portion of the impact load Pto the load sensor and accordingly any sensing element s included therein . In an aspect it can be considered that there are two levels of protection the microscopic compressive preload applied to the sensor and sensing element s located in load sensor and the macroscopic compressive Papplied to the load sensor and the portion of the Pacting to maintain the hardware stack tightly coupled.

In an embodiment one or more sensing elements can be incorporated into a load sensor to facilitate load measurement as previously described with reference to . illustrate a design for a sensing element which can be considered to be equivalent to sensing element according to an embodiment where is a sectional view along B B. The sensing element can be formed from a plate of material which may e.g. be single crystal Si.

In an example the thickness of plate can be on the order of about 100 m thick to facilitate high load measurement. Further the thickness of the plate or a portion thereof can be thinned e.g. to a thickness of about 10 m by any suitable technique such as an etch process e.g. a Bosch etch where the broken line on indicates the location of the sidewalls of a thinned region on .

Alternatively plate can be constructed using silicon on insulator SOI device technology whereby a wafer can be obtained of a required thickness with and or without the thinned region . A surface e.g. a top or upper surface in the plane of the illustration of of plate can be patterned with at least one trace e.g. traces and or as shown in . As presented further herein traces and can be formed from four separate traces A and B and A and B where traces A and B are located relative to the periphery of thinned region and traces A and B can be located more centrally relative to the thinned region .

As explained further herein when a load e.g. Por P is applied to and or distributed across the top surface of the plate plate can become deformed e.g. by bending about the thinned region . Accordingly deformation of plate can lead to strain transduction occurring in the traces and on the top surface of the plate where in where in typical configurations the highest strain tends to occur. While the traces and can be of any dimension and form in an embodiment the traces and can be formed from any suitable conductor such as doped e.g. greater than about 1 10cm n type polysilicon and can be of any suitable dimension e.g. about 0.3 m in width and height. In a further embodiment traces and or can be isotropic. In another embodiment traces and or can have a piezoresistive gage factor coefficient of about 18.

As shown in the traces A B A and B can form a serpentine pattern repeatedly crossing back and forth over the thinned region of the plate that can experience the highest radial strain during deformation of the plate .

In an embodiment the traces A B A and B can be arranged as a full Wheatstone bridge in which a plurality of bridge resistance connections are collectively patterned on the surface of plate . Patterning the plurality of bridge resistance connections onto the surface of plate can mitigate any temperature variation effects as all the resistive legs e.g. traces A B A and B of the Wheatstone bridge can be subject to the same temperature and thermal boundary conditions. Further patterning the plurality of bridge resistances onto the surface of plate can also maximize sensitivity as the opposing resistor pairs and in the Wheatstone bridge can be subject to either tension outer resistors and located at the edge of plate or compression inner resistors and located at the center of plate . Patterning the plurality of bridge resistances can cause differences in resistance due to strain to increase the change in voltage rather than offset it. In embodiments the Wheatstone bridge does need to be balanced. Obviating such a need can facilitate monitoring the offset e.g. at outputs and for problems associated with electrical design circuit connections input output electrical connections and the like. It is to be appreciated that any suitable resistance can be utilized to facilitate operation and sensing by the Wheatstone bridge e.g. traces A B A and B in an embodiment a resistance of each leg of the bridge can typically be in the order of tens of kilohms.

While not shown in a layer of insulating film e.g. silicon dioxide SiO and or silicon nitride SiN layer shown in can be deposited between the traces and and the surface of plate to prevent shorting. Further while not shown in a layer of insulating film e.g. layer in can also be applied to cover the surface of the traces and to provide a measure of wear protection.

As previously mentioned the brittle sensing element can be packaged to protect the sensing element from the most extreme loads and can further transmit a percentage of the applied load to the die . Protection afforded by sensor packaging enables the sensor element survive the high loads and loading rates. provide illustration of various packaging embodiments and a testing configuration and are presented to facilitate understanding of calibration of an applied load to a measured sensor response. Based thereon various predictions can be made regarding a transfer function through a sensor package for an anticipated load level s for the various materials stiffness and thicknesses chosen in the package design. The various calibration curves applied loads FEM analyses sensor dimensioning material selection etc. are presented to facilitate understanding of the various concepts presented herein and are not to be taken as definitive values with any parameter magnitude material dimension etc. being replaceable by any other value suitable in accordance with the embodiments presented herein. Hence the parameter magnitude s material s dimension s etc. can be selected to facilitate design of a sensor and adjusted for different anticipated loads in different sensor applications.

In an embodiment the thinned plate region can increase the degree of deformation which can occur at that region relative to a plate with a constant thickness P throughout.

Electrical connection to traces and or is facilitated by electrical contacts which can be connected to a printed circuit board PCB via electrical contacts and bond pads and trace elements . In an embodiment the bond pads can be formed from any suitable material e.g. aluminum. In an embodiment trace elements can be formed on the PCB and further can be formed from any suitable conductive material e.g. gold. In an embodiment electrical contacts can be solder bumps and in a further embodiment electrical contacts can be a die attach formed for example from indium In . As previously mentioned traces and or can be optionally located between a lower insulating layer and or an upper insulating layer . Further an adhesive layer can be located between the upper layer and the PCB where adhesive layer can be formed from any suitable material such as an epoxy resin.

Accordingly as shown in the example configuration a plurality of sensing elements e.g. comparable to sensing elements of can be located on a PCB where in the example embodiment the PCB is in the form of a washer like configuration to facilitate location of the load sensor on to the boltshaft . In the example configuration presented in four sensing elements each located in a sensor assembly are located on PCB whereby readings from each of the four sensing elements can be analyzed and based thereon a determination can be made regarding a direction of loading relative to the operating plane of the four sensing elements . PCB has further formed thereon a plurality of traces which are connected to respective inputs and or outputs .

It is to be appreciated that any number of layers can be utilized during assembly and packaging of a sensing element . Hence once the final washer assembly is assembled with the sensor assembly and washers and located in an outer shell the sensor assembly and the respective sensing elements can have a micro level preload applied thereto. During subsequent assembly of the washer assembly e.g. forming load sensor into the load sensing device apparatus a further compressive load e.g. a macro level preload can be applied to the sensor assembly whereby the macro level preload and the micro level preload can combine to form P.

To facilitate understanding the following presents calculations and test data relating to a structure e.g. sensor assembly fabricated in accordance with the various embodiments presented herein. In an embodiment a primary change in resistance across the Wheatstone bridge e.g. traces A B A and B can be due to strain being induced at the upper surface of the plate . The strain can be induced as a function of the plate being deformed e.g. bent. In an embodiment the strain of the upper surface of plate can be maximized at edge region E e.g. as shown in where the thinning of region from a thickness P e.g. thickness of plate to a thickness R can concentrate strain at region E.

Finite element FEM studies showing the strain distribution in plate and traces and are presented in .

Optical inspection of the thinned region formed by the etching process indicate that the fillet radius FR region where the etched plate meets the remainder of the plate was not sharp but rather had a significant fillet radius estimated at 100 to 200 m. The effect of fillet radius is further address in .

It is to be appreciated that the solutions can over predict edge stresses. A load Pwas applied to the sensor in these calculations rather than the fraction of the load that actually is felt by the sensor due to load division between the sensor and the package . It is to be noted that the calculation identifies regions of high stress near the edges of the plate in however such a concentration can be mitigated with a larger fillet. In this solution a distributed load is applied across a quadrant of a circular sensor plate region surrounded by a Si support structure . A nylon washer soft material covered by a steel washer stiff material can be modeled on top of the Si plate neither the nylon nor steel elements are shown to incorporate a deforming element and maintain load element contact with the plate as it deforms.

As previously mentioned the washers e.g washers and can be considered as a first level of packaging protection for the sensor element . The sensor plate can fail fracture at the edge of the plate at the loads modeled in due to the relatively low strength of Si in bending further presented in the design calculations hereinafter. It is to be noted that forming a sensor plate with SOI could result in a sharper FR and hence may be more closely modeled in accord with .

Further an approximate fracture strength for Si in bending is shown in . The fracture strength of Si is reached at a low load 10000 N for the small radius etch fillet of 50 m which is in approximate agreement with the design calculation herein and at a much higher load 30000 N for the large radius etch fillet of 200 m which is in approximate agreement with an experimental fracture load as presented herein . Thus the results shown in support utilization of a large etch fillet radius estimated at about 200 m to reduce the stress at the plate edge increasing the maximum survivable load and decreasing the sensor signal by an amount consistent with the observed experimental results.

To facilitate understanding of the various embodiments presented herein the following equations are presented. As an approximation the plate can be considered in aspect as a clamped circular plate having a fixed fixed boundary at the edge E. An analytical expression for maximum stress at the edge of a clamped circular plate is presented in Eqn. 1 

where w is the distributed load N m E is Young s modulus N m t is the thickness of plate and r is the plate radius m . Owing to radial strain having a larger magnitude than a circumferential strain at the edge of the circular plate e.g. edge E of thinned region Eqns. 1 and 2 can be considered to be directed towards radial strain.

Returning to Eqns. 1 and 2 and incorporating a piezoresistive gage factor for highly doped n type polysilicon e.g. G 18 a change in resistance R for a given strain can be calculated according to Eqn. 3 Eqn. 3

Further an approximate bridge circuit output voltage V as a function of input voltage V can be derived for a half bridge design according to Eqn. 4 

where Ris the resistance of the outer trace e.g. traces A and B and Ris the resistance of the inner trace e.g. traces A and B according to .

With reference to for the sensor design the resistances of the two outer traces A and B can be made equal to each other and the resistances of the two inner traces A and B can be made equal to each other. Accordingly the sensor design can be approximated as Wheatstone halfbridge circuits owing to the shorter center of the trace resistors while under compressive loading and hence can experience less strain and contribute less change in resistance than the longer edge of plate resistance traces may do.

For a simple circuit design the input ground and V and or can be connected to minimize noise according to which can effectively create a voltage divider circuit. For a voltage divider circuit the change in output sense voltage for a given change in resistance in this case due to strain at the edge of the plate according to Eqn. 3 can be derived according to Eqn. 5 

As previously mentioned the materials in package surrounding the sensor assembly can protect the sensing element s from the most extreme loads and can transmit a percentage of the load Pto the sensing element s . All of this protection enables a sensor assembly and associated components to survive high loading of a high frequency.

However the relationship between applied load to a measured sensor response is required to be known e.g. for calibration purposes. Accordingly knowledge is required to be able to predict the transfer function of the anticipated load levels e.g. Pand or P through the materials stiffness and thicknesses chosen in the design of any of sensor assembly sensing element s washer assembly etc. Based on such knowledge various design parameters can be established and or adjusted in accordance with the various anticipated loads to be potentially encountered in a variety of applications.

With reference to the package configurations shown in the various components comprise a plurality of materials of differing properties. The percentage of load transmitted to the sensing element s can depend on the stiffness of the materials forming the two parallel load paths through the hardware stack one through the sensor assembly and one around the sensor assembly as previously described with reference to . A primary deforming element is the epoxy washer and the stiffness of each component in components etc. can depend on the Young s modulus for each material epoxy steel Si etc. the thickness of each component and the area over which the load acts at each component.

At the interface s between the sensor assembly the washer and and the support a portion of the load is carried by the sensor assembly and a portion by the surrounding support . The same deformation occurs in the Si sensing element as the steel in the surrounding support but a greater load is carried by the steel primarily because it has much more area under load. The fraction of load carried by the sensing element and that carried by the surrounding steel structure can be calculated according to Eqn. 6

where Pis the total load applied to the sensing element and the support Pis the portion of the load passing through the sensing element and Pis the portion of the load passing through the support . Ignoring any difference in height between the sensor assembly e.g. comprising sensing element and the support which would be eliminated by a preload procedure as previously described it can be considered that the die and substrate are at the same height and subject to the same total applied load. The sensor assembly and the support can deform the same amount but the stiffer structure will carry a larger proportion of the applied load. Eqn. 7 Eqn. 8

In the preceding set of equations F P is the applied force or load k is spring stiffness E is Young s modulus A is area and L is length. Therefore since is the same for the steel support and the Si parts of the sensor assembly 

The fractional load Papplied to the Si can be used to calculate a sensor response change in output voltage Vfor a given applied load. First the distributed load on the sensor assembly is calculated which is then utilized to calculate the strain at the edge E of the sensor plate 

Based upon the previous equations and exemplary embodiments the following presents an exemplary determination for a maximum load that can be applied without sensor failure due to excessive stress at the edge E of the plate . The following further presents an exemplary method for measuring the sensitivity of sensor assembly in terms of voltage change per unit input load.

The failure stress for the plate in bending is approximately 500 MPa and the Young s modulus is 170 GPa. In an exemplary embodiment the plate can be 100 microns thick and 1 mm in diameter. With reference to Eqns. 1 and 2 the distributed load that can cause the failure stress to be reached at the edge E of plate can be determined to be 2.7 10N m 27 MPa 3970 lbf in .

It is to be appreciated that w is the distributed load on the plate transmitted through the sensor assembly not the load on the support which is to be determined. The associated maximum radial strain at the edge E of the plate can be calculated from Eqns. 1 and 2 and the maximum change in resistance from Eqn. 3 for R 40 kOhm.

It is to be noted that either a thicker plate region or a smaller diameter plate can be utilized to increase the determined maximum load. However this could result in a loss in sensor response signal hence a design compromise can be made to determine the desired combination of high maximum load and high sensitivity.

For the exemplary design presented herein e.g. assuming four sensing elements included in sensor assembly of size 2 mm by 1.4 mm 4 2 10 1.4 10 1.1 10m

for a 19.1 mm 0.75 inch OD steel support washer with a 6.35 mm 0.25 inch diameter ID and four cutouts slightly larger than 2 by 1.4 mm to accommodate the sensor assemblies 

For an evenly distributed load over the support washer one fourth of this load is on each sensor assembly e.g. each of the four sensing elements 0.01Pper die. It was previously calculated that a distributed load of 2.7 107 N m2 over the die will lead to sensor plate fracture for a 100 m thick 1 mm diameter Si plate accordingly 2.7 10 1.1 10 300N 68 lbf across all four sensing elements .

applied to the support washer for sensor die failure. In terms of the normal stress on the full area of support washer this corresponds to 

where V 9V G 18 R 43.8 kOhm R 33.6 kOhm r 500 m t 100 m E 170 GPa E 200 GPa A 1.1 10m A 2.4 10mfor the calculations above.

Sensors as shown in were loaded quasi statically in compression and sensor response curves as a function of applied load were generated. The sensor response calibration from the test data was used in dynamic tests using a Split Hopkinson bar test apparatus to determine measured load during high load rate testing. In addition maximum load at failure was determined experimentally.

As shown in respective plots the load inputs ramp up linearly to the respective maximum level e.g. 1000 to 5000 lbf in 1 to 5 seconds. Further as shown after reaching a defined maximum the loads return back to zero load in a symmetrical manner. The measured sensor response s was repeatable. At loading and unloading rates of between 10 to 100 000 lbf sec 44.45 to 4.445 105 N sec almost identical response curves result. The loading rates presented in correspond to a minimum signal period of 10 msec and bandwidth of 100 Hz which can be considered to be equivalent to a quasi static test condition.

The presented data was measured for two of the four sensors e.g. two of four sensor assemblies located on an epoxy washer where each upper line in the load pairing is the load measured on a first sensor assembly and where each lower line in the load pairing is the load measured on a second sensor assembly . For the arrangement shown in all four sensor assemblies showed similar responses to the two presented in but with different offset voltages. As shown in the resulting signals have a low noise with a S N ratio of 100 1 facilitating measurement resolution of approximately 100 N. As depicted at and similarly for all the plots there is a no response section of the curve s during which the slack in the testing equipment is taken up and followed by a steeper rise in response at the low load levels as gaps in the sensor package are closed and the full washer area is engaged. Initially at low load levels a larger fraction of the load is borne by the Si plate however once the gaps in the sensor package are compressed out the sensor response is approximately linear.

The test data from the dynamic tests was generated using a Split Hopkinson bar apparatus. Briefly the Split Hopkinson bar utilizes a gas gun to drive a projectile into a long steel rod and impart a shaped shock pulse along the rod. A pulse shaper typically a copper disk at the impact point of the projectile on the incident bar is utilized to shape the pulse imparting for example a square wave or triangle wave pulse. The test sample e.g. a sensor assembly containing the sensing elements is placed at the end of the incident bar opposite the projectile impact. Two configurations were tested a direct load configuration and a preloaded protected sensor configuration in which the sensor assembly is inside the protected housing of sensor washer .

The calibration curves from the quasi static testing were utilized to convert Vrecorded e.g. on a high speed digital oscilloscope into force for the data shown in a square wave pulse input and triangle wave pulse input . plot is the data measured for the first sensor plot is the data measured for the second sensor and plot is the data measured from a quartz based calibration load cell. plot is the data measured for the first sensor plot is the data measured for the second sensor plot is the data measured from a quartz based calibration load cell. As shown in the first and second sensors matched the calibration data from the load cell plots and .

A degree of noise is present for the sensor element signals as well as the quartz load cell. The noise can be due to both electronic and mechanical sources. Ringing and overshoot at the front of the measured pulse are evident for both the quartz gage and the sensor elements . Overshoot is more pronounced for the sensor elements . An approach to clean up the sensor elements signals was to apply a low level preload approximately 2 kN to the sensor washer . Such an approach can remove any slack internal to the sensor washer and further move the sensor elements signals from the quadratic to the linear region on the calibration curve as well as reduce mechanical noise sources.

In some of the samples tested the sensor washer was still in a state of compression after preload. presents a chart for a triangle shaped pulse with the preload. plot is the data measured for the first sensor element plot is the data measured for the second sensor element and plot is the data measured from the quartz based calibration load cell.

The noise on signals from the sensor elements was significantly reduced and the overshoot at the front of the pulse measurement was eliminated. The square wave pulse as shown in was similarly cleaned up by preloading. Further electronic noise sources were not cleaned up specifically 60 Hz noise as is present in . If electronic noise sources were reduced e.g. with a 60 Hz filter a measurement resolution similar to that shown for the quasi static data e.g. per can be achievable. A peak load of 35 000 N 7900 lbf was measured as shown in which corresponds to a stress at the sensor washer of about 140 MPa 20 ksi . Further elimination of the squared term in the calibration curve not shown brought the preloaded MEMS sensor data to closer agreement with the quartz calibration sensor. A signal rise time of about 10 sec was tracked by the sensors corresponding to a maximum demonstrated frequency of about 100 000 Hz.

The test results indicate the failure load was about 5 times higher than expected 35000 N measured vs 7500 N predicted P and the sensor response was 8 times lower than expected 1.57 mV kN measured vs 13.3 mV kN predicted . The predicted load failure was based on an oversimplification of the physical situation and hence was purposely conservative. It was anticipated that the sensor response curve would approximately track the load since the strain and output voltage track the stress at the edge E of the plate . A key oversimplification for the previously presented design calculation was the application of a fixed fixed boundary condition. In the sensor package the thick steel in die mount in contact with a sensing element would not allow much deformation and would tend to produce a fixed boundary. It is to be noted that in the data shown e.g. a thin 0.001 inch 0.0254 mm layer of polyimide tape a relatively soft material was placed in between the PCB and the die mount to provide some measure of wear protection. This soft material would tend to make the boundary more compliant less fixed . Also the PCB at the edge of the sensor plate contacting the thicker section of the sensing element is a softer material that would allow some deformation. Hence the boundary condition at the edge of the sensor plate may be improved by modeling as somewhere between a fixed boundary and a simply supported boundary in which the slope at the edge of the plate is not assumed zero. For a simply supported circular plate the edge stress is zero so any flexibility at the edge E of the plate would tend to reduce the stress increase the maximum achievable load and reduce the signal output. For a simply supported plate it would be better to have the piezoresistive strain sensing elements at the center of the plate rather than the edges.

The maximum survivable load may be under predicted and the sensor response may be overpredicted may be due to the effect of the etch fillet radius FR at the edge E of the sense plate is not modeled in the design calculation previously described. As shown in a sharp corner at the edge FR of the sense plate causes a stress concentration resulting in plate stresses beyond the fracture limit for Si in bending. As previously mentioned a radius at this location will reduce this stress concentration leading to a higher load required for fracture less strain and therefore less sensor response voltage.

As previously mentioned a micro preload can be applied to the sensor assembly for example to compensate for the various components comprising assembly are not tightly packed when assembly is first assembled. Specifically parts of the load path may be in contact while other parts are not. An amount of preload can be required to compress the initially contacted parts of the washer assembly enough to bring the full washer area into contact in order to achieve full load division. In particular the die stickup distance M may be such that the assembly is in contact with the die mount while the surrounding PCB is not. The sensor plate can initially carry the entire load as the sensor washer is compressed enough until the PCB comes into contact with the die mount . A function of the sensor plate initially carrying the entire applied load can account for the initially higher slope of the load response curves quadratic term in the calibration equations . In an embodiment a small amount of preload can be applied to cause the entire areas of the respective components and to contact and the sensor response to enter the linear range. Owing to the ability to monitor sensor response voltage during the preload process per it is possible to determine how much preload is required to compress the various components comprising sensor assembly and thus determine when enough micro preload has been applied for complete contact.

As previously described e.g. per Eqn. 1 the sensor survival load is most sensitive to a thickness of thinned region versus plate thickness and further a radius J of the thinned region per . Reducing the plate radius J or increasing the thickness of thinned region can result in significantly higher maximum achievable loads squared functionality for both parameters . However such an approach can lead to a loss of sensor response per. Eqn . In addition reducing the percentage of load carried by the sensor plate and thinned region by decreasing the size of the die mount and increasing the stiffness of the surrounding materials e.g. Tungsten E 400 GPa instead of Steel E 200 GPa can increase the maximum achievable load before sensor plate failure but with a linear functionality per Eqns. 1 13 and 14 .

An approach to increase sensor response for a given strain is to increase the number of strain sensitive wires e.g. traces and on the surface of the thinned sensor region and position the wires more precisely at the maximum strain locations on the plate . For instance for a calculation to accurately determine the plate deformation in terms of fixed vs. simply supported boundary conditions an approach may be to place the highest density of wires more at the center of the thinned region than at the edge E. The number of wires can be more densely patterned than that shown in owing to the traces being photolithographically patterned much thinner and closer together in order to increase Rand R e.g. as defined in Eqn. 18 and thereby increase sensor output voltage for a given load. Hence in an embodiment to achieve a more sensitive higher maximum load sensor can involve increasing the radius J to provide more area for piezoresistive wires a denser pattern of traces at the optimum radial location micromachined at the limit of photolithographic precision while at the same time increasing the thickness of the thinned region such that the plate can handle a higher load.

At a load sensor can be formed and include at least one piezoresistive sensing element. As previously described the sensing element can be formed from Si. A concern with Si elements is their inherent brittleness in the presence of a tensile stress a concern which can be addressed by application of a compressive preload on the Si sensing element. Based at least in part upon the application the sensing element can be placed in a containing structure which can protect the sensing element s as well as also containing other material components which can minimize impact stresses that could cause fracture of the sensing element. In an embodiment the load sensor can be utilized in a configuration where the load sensor is supported on a boltshaft where the load sensor is in the form of a washer. To facilitate determination of application of loading in a number of directions e.g. off center loading relative to the load sensor the load sensor can be formed with a plurality of sensing elements e.g. four sensing elements to facilitate load determination in four directions e.g. effectively cardinal directions relative to the position of the load sensor on the boltshaft. The containing structure can be formed from steel. Further the material components can be placed either side of the sensing element s to provide a degree of compliance to the load sensor. The materials can be formed from any ductile and or compliant material as previously described herein.

At a micro preload can be applied to the load sensor. The micro preload can act to compensate for the various components in the load sensor not being tightly packed during assembly of the load sensor e.g. parts of a load path may be in contact while other parts are not. As previously described an amount of preload can be applied to compress initially contacted parts of the load sensor to achieve full load division between the plurality of sensing elements and hence facilitate a linear sensing response.

At as previously described particularly with reference to the load sensor can be located on a support structure which can be utilized to locate the load sensor relative to a component to be sensed and also to apply a macro preload to the load sensor. A support structure can be a nut and bolt onto which the load sensor is located whereby the bolt is located in a recessed portion of the component to be sensed e.g. a countersunk hole in a wall of the component to be sensed. A plurality of spacing components e.g. washers can be utilized to facilitate load absorption during operation of the load sensor. The washers can be formed from ductile and or compliant material.

At a macro preload can be applied to the sensor where in an embodiment the macro preload can be of a magnitude greater than an anticipated maximum load to be experienced during operation of the load sensor. The macro preload can be several times greater than the micro preload. For example with the exemplary embodiment a compressive macro load can be applied to the load sensor e.g. by tightening of the nut on the bolt where the loading results in tensile stress being applied to the boltshaft the tensile stress can be equal but of opposite magnitude to the compressive macro load.

At during operation a load can be applied to the bolthead which can act to force the boltshaft in an inward direction relative to the component wall. Accordingly owing to the boltshaft moving in a direction opposite to the loading direction of the nut and bolt the compressive load resulting from the compressive macro preload is reduced.

At the amount by which the compressive preload reduced can be determined thereby enabling determination of the magnitude of the load applied to the bolthead.

At a portion of the sensing plate can be thinned. The thinned region can be of any suitable thickness e.g. about 10 m thick to facilitate a higher degree of strain occurring in the thinned region during loading than occurs in the un thinned portion of the plate. The thinned region can be formed by any suitable operation such as an etching operation. Further the thinned region can have a circular configuration.

At at least one trace element can be formed over the thinned region. The trace s can form a Wheatstone bridge or similar circuit system where in an embodiment the trace s can be of a circular serpentine pattern configured to operate over the thinned region. Appropriate connections wiring etc. can be attached to the trace s . The sensing plate with the traces formed thereon can be located in a load sensor as previously described.

At the load sensor can be incorporated into a load sensing system. During application of a load to the load sensor a strain can be created at the thinned region owing in part to the difference in thickness between the thinned region and the rest of the thicker plate. The strain at the thinned region can further induce strain in the trace s which can accordingly affect the voltage etc. across the Wheatstone bridge. Based upon the change in voltage on the Wheatstone bridge the reduction in compressive load on the plate can be determined and accordingly the degree of applied load.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above structures or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

