---

title: Event application
abstract: The present invention includes systems and methods for providing event information. A one-time use app is downloaded to a user device when a user elects to purchase the app. The app receives event-related information from an event database. The event database receives information from a plurality of sources. The sources are each associated with an application programming interface. The app provides event-related information to the user through purchased options. The app can filter information based on a user profile before providing the information to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09659102&OS=09659102&RS=09659102
owner: PROSPORTS TECHNOLOGIES, LLC
number: 09659102
owner_city: Miami
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160321
---
This application is a continuation and claims the priority benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 788 751 filed Jun. 30 2015 and titled Event Application which claims the priority benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 62 023 520 filed on Jul. 11 2014 and titled One Time Event Fan App Controlled by the Team Owner U.S. provisional application No. 62 045 030 filed on Sep. 3 2014 and titled One Time Event Fan App Controlled by Team Owner and Third Parties U.S. provisional application No. 62 045 032 filed on Sep. 3 2014 and titled One Time Event Fan App Controlled by Team Owner Featuring Team Specific Point of View and U.S. provisional application No. 62 045 034 filed on Sep. 3 2014 and titled One Time Event Fan App Controlled by Team Owner Featuring Player Specific Point of View the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to content management. More specifically the present invention relates to selective information delivery based on user profiles.

Event venues currently have a variety of options for communicating with event attendees. An event venue can include information when delivering the event ticket to an attendee. A venue can also include information on a website post signs at the venue or hand out information at the event.

It is difficult however to provide a comprehensive source of real time information for a particular event. It is difficult for venue management to communicate with event attendees target messages based on attendee preferences and send real time updates and alerts. This also makes it difficult for management to control attendee traffic or streamline other venue operations such as merchandise sales.

One exemplary method for providing event information describes receiving a request from a user device for an app. The method also describes transmitting the app over a network to the user device. The app is associated with an event and unlocks when the user device is within a predetermined distance from a venue for the event. The method also describes transmitting information from an event database to the user device for display through the app when a user selects one of at least one information display options from the app. The transmitted information is associated with the event and the selected information display option.

One exemplary system for providing event information provides a processor and an event database. Execution of instructions stored in the memory by the processor performs a set of operations. The operations include receiving a request from a user device for an app. The operations also include transmitting the app over a network to the user device. The app is associated with an event and unlocks when the user device is within a predetermined distance from a venue for the event. The event database stores information for transmission from the event database to the user device for display through the app. The information is transmitted when a user selects one of at least one information display options from the app. The transmitted information is associated with the event and the selected information display option.

One exemplary non transitory computer readable storage medium is also described the non transitory computer readable storage medium having embodied thereon a program executable by a processor to perform an exemplary method for providing event information. The exemplary program method describes receiving a request from a user for an app. The program method also describes transmitting the app over a network. The app is associated with an event. The program method also describes transmitting information from an event database for display through the app when a user selects one of at least one information display options from the app. The transmitted information is associated with the event and the selected information display option.

The present invention includes systems and methods for providing event information. A user device user is presented with a choice to purchase a one time use event information application app during the purchase of an event ticket. The user can purchase a plurality of information options for the one time use app. The one time use app is downloaded to the user device when the user elects to purchase the app. The app is associated with the event and event ticket and receives event related information from an event database. The event database receives information from a plurality of sources. The sources are each associated with an application programming interface. The app provides event related information to the user through the purchased options. The app can filter information based on a user profile before providing the information to the user.

Event information can be provided for entertainment or cultural events that are presented at a theatre gymnasium stadium or other facility to a group of people. Such events include a wide variety of sporting events such as football American and Global baseball basketball soccer ice hockey lacrosse rugby cricket tennis track and field golf cycling motor sports such as automobile or motorcycle racing horse racing Olympic games and the like cultural events such as concerts music festivals plays the opera and the like religious events and more permanent exhibitions such as museum historic home and the like.

The fan mobile device includes a global positioning system GPS sensor a communications means a ticket application app and a one time app . The fan mobile device communicates via the communication network using the communications means . The fan mobile device can be a smartphone owned by an event attendee. A fan mobile device user can make ticket purchases from the ticket network using the ticket app . The ticket network can be an online ticket vendor. A fan mobile device user can also acquire the one time app using the ticket app .

The third party team data network connects to the team options API the real time stadium database connects to the stadium options API the real time parking lot database connects to the parking lot options API the third party options network connects to the other options API the player point of view database connects to the player point of view options API and the one or more third party owned networks connects to the third party owned API . The team options API the stadium options API the parking lot options API the other options API the player point of view options API and the third party owned API connect to the event database . The third party team data network provides team information. The real time stadium database provides real time stadium information. The real time parking lot database provides real time parking lot information. The third party options network provides third party information such as information on local attractions or coupons. The player point of view database provides player information. The one or more third party owned networks provide information such as broadcasts and merchandise. The third party team data network the real time stadium database the real time parking lot database the third party options network the player point of view database and the one or more third party owned networks send information to the event database through the corresponding API. The one time app can access the event database via the communication network . A fan mobile device user can view event information from the event database using the one time app .

The select game section can include a pull down menu through which a ticket app user can select a game. The select game section includes a display of the selected game where the date of the game and the teams playing in the game can be included. A ticket app user can access a user profile GUI not shown using the profile button .

A ticket app user can access a ticket map for the selected game using the ticket map button . The ticket map can be a seating map of the venue and include the price of different seats. The ticket section can display a seat number and a price for a seat when a ticket app user selects the corresponding seat from the ticket map.

The one time app options section can include a team option a stadium option a parking lot option and an other option where each option can be associated with a corresponding network e.g. the third party team data network or the third party options network or database e.g. the real time stadium database the real time parking lot database or the player point of view database . The one time app provides information from the networks and databases when the corresponding one time app option is selected. The one time app options section can also include a display of a corresponding price for each option. A ticket app user can add one or more options to a one time app by selecting the corresponding option in the one time app options section . The one time app options section can include a checkbox or a radio button next to an option for selection.

The total price display displays the total price of the ticket selected in the ticket section and the options selected in the one time app options section . The ticket app will present a payment screen not shown to a user when the user selects the purchase button . A user can pay for the selected ticket and the selected options using the payment screen. The one time app with the selected options will download to the fan mobile device after payment. The downloaded one time app is associated with the purchased ticket. The ticket network can provide a one time app download link to the user after payment.

The GPS verified attendance display includes a status display . The status display indicates whether the one time app is verified. The one time app can be configured such that the one time app or particular one time app options are locked until verification is complete. The one time app or particular one time app options can unlock when the GPS sensor confirms the fan mobile device is at the event venue.

The ticket barcode display displays a barcode for a purchased ticket where the ticket is associated with the event displayed in the event display . The ticket barcode display can also specify the seat associated with the displayed barcode. The app availability display provides information regarding the availability of the one time app . The app availability display can provide a beginning date and an end date for when the one time app is available for use. The first day the one time app is available can be the day of the event begins and the last day the one time app is available can be the day the event ends. The one time app can be configured to automatically delete or relock after the event ends.

The concessions section includes a menu button a filter by profile button a locations near you button and an advertisements display . A user can view a menu using the menu button . A user can view a menu filtered by the user profile by using the filter by profile button . A user can view nearby concessions using the locations near you button . The stadium options viewer can display advertisements in the advertisements display .

The rest rooms section includes a locations button a near you button and a wait time section . A user can view restroom locations using the locations button . A user can view nearby restrooms using the near you button . A user can filter restrooms based on wait time using the wait time section . A user can select a maximum wait time using a pull down menu in the wait time section . When a user selects a maximum wait time the locations button and the near you button will display restrooms with wait times of or below the maximum wait time selected by the user.

The security section includes an alert button a map button a frequently asked questions button and a seat display . A user can alert security personnel regarding a security issue using the alert button . A user can view a map with security personnel location information using the map button . A user can view frequently asked questions regarding security of the event by using the frequently asked questions button . The seat display displays the seat number corresponding to the purchased ticket associated with the one time app .

The merchandise section includes a list button a filter by profile button a locations near you button a coupons button and an ads display . A user can view a merchandise list using the list button . A user can view a merchandise list filtered by the user profile by using the filter by profile button . A user can view nearby merchandise sellers using the locations near you button . A user can view merchandise coupons using the coupon button . The stadium options viewer can display advertisements in the advertisements display . The merchandise section can also include a suggested merchandise list not shown . The suggested merchandise list includes merchandise selected based on user information. The suggested merchandise list can include for example items targeted for children when a user has a child. The suggested merchandise list can include for example small portable items when a user is a visitor. The suggested merchandise list can include items such as local event tickets or fragile items for a local user where a local user can more easily transport fragile items and attend a local event at a different time. The suggested merchandise list also includes items based on user interest such as favorite teams.

The smart seat section includes a connect button and a login button . A user can connect to a network at the venue using the connect button . A user can input network log in information using the login button when log in information is required to connect to the network. A venue can provide a network connection at each seat where each seat has a hardwire connection to a network.

A user can view an event handout using the event handout button . An event handout can include event information such as a play card from the event. The general ad section displays ads based on user information. The general ad section can display for example hotel restaurant or tourist ads when a user is a visiting user.

The identification display includes a tab label identifying the selected tab a player label identifying a player and a logo associated with the player s team. The game clip section includes a clip list a clip viewer a plurality of viewer control options . A one time app user can select a clip from the clip list to view the clip in the clip viewer . The clip list can display the clips as an event label e.g. TD 1 with a timestamp associated with the game. The user can also control the clip viewer using the plurality of viewer control options . The plurality of viewer control options can include rewind play fast forward and volume.

The statistics section includes statistics for the selected player. Statistics can include completions attempts percentage yards average touchdowns sacks interceptions and first downs. The headlines section includes news headlines associated with the selected player. A user can click a headline to see the associated article.

A user who purchases the player point of view options can access the player point of view options GUI from the player point of view options display . A one time app user can view a tab for a particular player by selecting the tab.

The commentary section includes a commentary list and a plurality of commentary controls . The commentary list can include game predictions teams history and playoff analysis. A one time app user can listen to a commentary through the fan mobile device by selecting a commentary from the commentary list . The user can control the selected commentary using the plurality of commentary controls . The plurality of commentary controls can include rewind play fast forward and volume.

The historical data section includes a tab for each team in the game a previous games tab and a players tab. A one time app user can select a tab for a team to view historical data associated with the team of the selected tab. A one time app user can select the previous games tab to view historical data associated with the previous games. A one time app user can select the players tab to view historical data associated with players. A user who purchases the third party options can access the third party owned GUI from the third party options display .

In step a user is allowed to purchase an event ticket and one or more one time app options using the ticket app . In step the one time app is downloaded to the fan mobile device . A user can be provided with a link to download the one time app . The one time app includes options selected by a user. A user can select additional options through the ticket app or the one time app .

In step the one time app activates for use when a user is at the corresponding event. The one time app unlocks based on GPS location information as provided through the GPS sensor . The one time app can automatically relock or be deleted after a preset period subsequent to an event. The one time app can access the event database to provide information to a user through selected one time app options. The one time app can filter information based on profile information.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. The present descriptions are not intended to limit the scope of the presently claimed invention or to limit the scope of embodiments of the presently claimed invention. The present descriptions are intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents consistent with the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

