---

title: Machine or group of machines for monitoring location of a vehicle or freight carried by a vehicle
abstract: A machine or group of machines for monitoring location of at least one of a vehicle or freight carried by the vehicle includes a server comprising a central processing unit, a memory, a clock, and a server communication transceiver that receives location information of a mobile device, the mobile device comprising a GPS receiver, a microprocessor and a wireless communication transceiver coupled to the GPS receiver, the mobile device comprising the GPS receiver programmed to receive data sent by a plurality of GPS satellites, calculate location information of the mobile device comprising the GPS receiver and transmit the location information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09429659&OS=09429659&RS=09429659
owner: MacroPoint LLP
number: 09429659
owner_city: Cleveland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160104
---
In one example application of the use of location information carriers shippers freight hauling services providers third party logistics service providers and courier services providers as well as other logistics and freight service providers freight hauling benefit from monitoring the location of vehicles in their fleets or under contract. Monitoring the location of vehicles helps improve efficiency because it allows for real time or near real time decision making when matching loads with vehicles. For example by monitoring the location of fleet vehicles a dispatcher may better understand which vehicle is the most appropriate e.g. geographically closest appropriate size etc. to send to a location for a load pickup. Conventional systems for monitoring vehicle location have relied on global positioning systems GPS to provide the vehicle s location. These systems require a GPS receiver to be installed in each vehicle. Moreover some of these systems require the installation of additional dedicated equipment in each vehicle.

In addition at least in part due to limitations of conventional systems for monitoring vehicle location a common practice in the vehicle location monitoring services industry is to charge a user a standard flat monthly fee for monitoring services. This practice may represent a substantial cost to a user or organization that for example may wish to monitor a relatively small number of vehicles or a relatively small number of loads for a relatively short amount of time.

Alternative methods for monitoring location of vehicles include radiolocation techniques including triangulation or multilateration methods that are capable of locating devices in a network. These methods involve the measurement of radio signals between a device and radio towers in the network. The technology originally intended by telecommunication companies to approximate the location of a mobile phone in case of emergencies provides the location of a device in the network.

The use of all of these location information technologies also raises privacy issues. A user s privacy may be at risk if location information is misused or disclosed without the authorization or knowledge of the user. To address these privacy concerns various governmental and business organizations have developed rules and guidelines to protect user privacy. For example the International Association for the Wireless Telecommunications Industry CTIA has developed Best Practices and Guidelines for Location Based Services the CTIA Guidelines which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The Guidelines provide a framework based on two principles user notice and consent. Users must receive meaningful notice about how location information will be used disclosed and protected so that users can make informed decisions . . . and . . . have control over their location information. Users must also consent to the use or disclosure of location information and have the right to revoke consent . . . at any time. 

Although electronic methods have been developed that make use of web browsers and SMS texting capabilities of mobile devices to provide notification and consent some of these systems have proved inconvenient and may require advanced mobile devices or extensive user training.

A computer implemented method for monitoring location of a vehicle includes receiving a first electronic signal including data representing a request for information regarding the location of the vehicle correlating the vehicle to a communications device based at least in part on the communications device being associated with a user who is associated with the vehicle and transmitting a second electronic signal to a location information provider corresponding to a party or device other than the communications device. The second electronic signal includes data representing a request for location information of the communications device. The computer implemented method for monitoring location of a vehicle further includes receiving a third electronic signal from the location information provider. The third electronic signal includes data representing the location information of the communications device. The computer implemented method for monitoring location of a vehicle further includes correlating the location information of the communications device with the location of the vehicle based at least in part on the communications device being associated with the user who is associated with the vehicle and transmitting a fourth electronic signal including data representing the location of the vehicle.

Another computer implemented method for monitoring location of a vehicle includes transmitting a request signal requesting location information of a communications device. The request signal is transmitted to a party other than the communications device and the communications device is associated with a user of the communications device who is associated with the vehicle. The computer implemented method for monitoring location of a vehicle further includes receiving a location signal including data indicating the location information of the communications device. The location signal is received from a party other than the communications device and the location information of the communications device is originally obtained using a method not requiring a global position system GPS satellite receiver to form part of the communications device. The computer implemented method for monitoring location of a vehicle further includes transforming the location information of the communications device into location information regarding the vehicle based at least in part on the communications device being associated with the user of the communications device who is associated with the vehicle.

A system for monitoring location of a vehicle includes a communications interface configured to communicate electronic signals including a first electronic signal including data representing a request for the location of the vehicle the first electronic signal received from a requesting party a second electronic signal including data representing a request for location information of a communications device wherein the second electronic signal is transmitted to a location information provider corresponding to a party or device other than the communications device wherein the communications device is associated with a user of the communications device who is associated with the vehicle a third electronic signal including data representing the location information of the communications device wherein the third electronic signal is received from the location information provider corresponding to the party or device other than the communications device and a fourth electronic signal including data representing the location of the vehicle the fourth electronic signal transmitted to a receiving party. The system for monitoring location of a vehicle further includes a correlation logic configured to correlate the location information of the communications device to the location of the vehicle based at least in part on the communications device being associated with the user of the communications device who is associated with the vehicle.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions that follow are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the art to convey the substance of their work to others. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a sequence of operations that produce a result. The operations may include physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily the physical quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated in a logic and the like.

It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like. It should be borne in mind however that these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise it is appreciated that throughout the description terms like processing computing calculating determining displaying or the like refer to actions and processes of a computer system logic processor or similar electronic device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities.

In the present disclosure embodiments are described in the context of location of freight hauling vehicles. It will be appreciated however that the exemplary context of freight hauling vehicles is not the only operational environment in which aspects of the disclosed systems and methods may be used. Therefore the techniques described in this disclosure may be applied to many types of apparatus vehicles or devices whose location information may be of interest.

The location information provider corresponds to a party or device other than the vehicle and the device . The location information provider has access to location of the vehicle or the device . In one embodiment the location information provider is a wireless service provider that provides wireless service in a network . In another embodiment the location information provider is a third party or device that receives the location information of the device from the wireless service provider or from some other party or device. In yet another embodiment the location information provider is a party other than a wireless service provider or a third party. For example the party seeking to monitor the location of the vehicle the requesting party may have access to the location information of the device . In that case the requesting party may also be the location information provider . In another example the party operating the system may have access to the location information of the device .

The requesting party corresponds to a party or device interested in monitoring the location of the vehicle or on allowing another party to monitor the location of the vehicle . The receiving party corresponds to a party or device who receives the location of the vehicle from the system to monitor the location of the vehicle . In an example involving freight hauling services providers or freight carriers a carrier who is interested in monitoring the location of its own vehicles vehicles under contract or other vehicles requests the ability to monitor the location of the vehicle for its own consumption. In this case the carrier is both the requesting party and the receiving party . In another example the requesting party may be a driver interested in sharing the location of his her vehicle with a carrier to allow the carrier to monitor the location of the vehicle . In this case the driver is the requesting party and the carrier is the receiving party . In one embodiment multiple parties or devices may be interested in monitoring the location of the vehicle or on allowing another party to monitor the location of the vehicle . In that case the communications interface is configured to communicate with multiple requesting parties and or multiple receiving parties.

The system further includes a correlation logic that correlates the vehicle and the device . In one embodiment the correlation logic correlates the vehicle and the device based at least in part on the vehicle being associated with at least one user who is also associated with the device . For example the user may be associated with the vehicle because the user is the designated driver of the vehicle and the user may be associated with the communications device because the user is under contract with a wireless service provider for the provider to provide wireless service to the communications device . In another example the user is associated with the vehicle with the device or with both in a database or in the correlation logic . In another embodiment the vehicle is directly associated with the communications device without a user being associated with the vehicle or with the device .

In an example of the operation of the system the requesting party transmits and the communications interface receives data representing a request from the requesting party for the ability to monitor the location of the vehicle . In response to the request from the requesting party the correlation logic correlates the vehicle to the device . The communications interface transmits to the location information provider data representing one or more requests for location information of the device . In response to a request for location information of the device the location information provider transmits and the communications interface receives data representing the location information of the device . The correlation logic correlates the location information of the device to the location of the vehicle .

With the location of the vehicle on hand the communication interface can transmit data representing the location of the vehicle to the receiving party through computer communication. The location of the vehicle may then be displayed in a user interface not shown . In another embodiment the communications interface is configured to communicate the location to the receiving party by exposing an application programming interface API through which the receiving party can access the location of the vehicle . The receiving party can make use of the API to make the information available to its enterprise software e.g. SAP Oracle etc. for example.

In other embodiments the identifier corresponds to a number or some other identifying information associated with the device other than a telephone number. For example the identifier may be a mobile identification number MIN an electronic serial number ESN an International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI a Mobile Equipment Identifier MEID a Manufacturer s Serial Number MSN a Mobile Subscriber Integrated Services Digital Network MSISDN number a Media Access Control MAC address combinations thereof and so on.

Additional information that may be included in the data fields include the capacity of a vehicle e.g. total volumetric and weight capacity available volumetric and weight capacity etc. whether the container is refrigerated Ref. and so on.

In the illustrated embodiment the vehicle is associated with an active driver named Bianchi Campagnolo who is associated with an active device identified by an identifier corresponding to the telephone number . The vehicle may also be associated with a backup driver named Bob Haro who is associated with a backup device identified by an identifier corresponding to the telephone number . The correlation logic correlates the vehicle with the active driver unless the correlation logic is instructed to instead use the backup driver . In that case the active driver and the backup driver may switch with the name listed under backup driver appearing under active driver and viceversa. Similarly the correlation logic correlates the vehicle with the active device unless the correlation logic is instructed to instead use the backup device . In that case the active device and the backup device may switch with the identifier listed under backup device appearing under active device and viceversa. In this way the correlation logic can transform the location information of the communications device into information regarding the location of the vehicle by correlating the location information of the communications device to the location of the vehicle based at least in part on the communications device being associated with the user who is associated with the vehicle . In one embodiment the correlation logic correlates the vehicle with the active driver and the backup driver

In the illustrated embodiment the vehicle has a total capacity of 4 013 pounds and 42 660 cubic feet of which 4 013 pounds and 42 660 cubic feet are currently available. The vehicle has a total capacity of 2 878 pounds and 36 280 cubic feet. The capacity of the vehicle is refrigerated capacity. However none of that capacity is currently available e.g. the container associated with the vehicle is full since the available capacity is indicated as 0 pounds and 0 cubic feet.

As described above the system receives the location information of the device from a location information provider which is a party or device other than the device . The location information provider may be a wireless service provider or a party or device that receives the location information from a wireless service provider. Examples of wireless service providers in the United States include Verizon Wireless AT T Mobility Sprint Nextel T Mobile etc. These wireless service providers have technologies deployed that allow them to approximate the location of devices in their network. Some of these technologies were developed and deployed in compliance with E911 a government mandate requiring the wireless service providers to provide the approximate location of a mobile device in case of an emergency.

Location of devices in a cellular network may be described as involving two general positioning techniques 1 techniques that require the device to incorporate a global positioning system GPS receiver and 2 techniques that use some form of radiolocation from the device s network and do not require the device to incorporate a GPS receiver.

In one embodiment the wireless service provider or another party or device originally obtaining or deriving the location information of the device derives the location information of the device at least in part by using a radiolocation technique where the approximated location of the device corresponds to a range of locations corresponding to a transmission range of a single radio tower . In an example of this technology each radio tower is assigned a unique identification number a Cell ID. The Cell ID is received by all mobile devices in the coverage area of the radio tower thus the position of the device in the coverage area of the radio tower is derived from the coordinates of the radio tower . Additional techniques such as measuring signal strength of the device could be used to increase the accuracy of the location information. Accuracy can be further enhanced by including a measurement of Timing Advance TA in GSM GPRS networks or Round Trip Time RTT in UMTS networks. TA and RTT use time offset information sent from the radio tower to adjust the communications device s relative transmit time to correctly align the time at which the communications device s signal arrives at the radio tower . These measurements can be used to determine the distance from the communications device to the radio tower further improving accuracy.

In one embodiment the wireless service provider or another party or device originally obtaining or deriving the location information of the device derives the location information of the device at least in part using triangulation between multiple radio towers such as tower . The location of the device may be determined by using one or a combination of several techniques including the following 

Angle of Arrival AOA This technique requires at least two radio towers and locates the device at the point where the lines along the angles from each tower intersect.

Time Difference of Arrival TDOA This technique also requires at least two radio towers and determines the time difference between the time of arrival of a signal from the device to the first tower to a second tower and so on.

Advanced Forward Link Trilateration AFLT In this technique the communications device measures signals from nearby towers such as radio tower which are then used to triangulate an approximate location of the device .

Enhanced observed time difference E OTD This technique takes data received from the nearby towers such as radio tower to measure the difference in time it takes for the data to reach the device . The time difference is used to calculate where the device is in relation to the radio towers.

In one embodiment the wireless service provider or another party or device originally obtaining or deriving the location information of the device derives the location information of the device at least in part by using a method including a technique not requiring a GPS satellite receiver to form part of the device . In another embodiment the wireless service provider or another party or device deriving the location information of the device derives the location information of the device at least in part by using a hybrid method including a technique requiring a GPS satellite receiver to form part of the device and a technique not requiring a GPS satellite receiver to form part of the device . In yet another embodiment the wireless service provider or another party or device deriving the location information of the device derives the location information of the device at least in part by using a method including a technique requiring a GPS satellite receiver to form part of the device .

However since the system obtains the location information from the location information provider and not from the device the system can be operated to monitor the location of devices incorporating a GPS satellite receiver as well as devices not incorporating a GPS satellite receiver. Thus the system does not rely on any particular positioning technology for obtaining the location of the vehicle .

In continued reference to the system provides user notification and receives user consent to the monitoring the location of the vehicle . In this embodiment the communications interface is further configured for communication with the device . In one embodiment the communication interface is associated with a toll free number such as a 1 800 number. The driver of the vehicle may initiate a telephone call by dialing the toll free number. In another embodiment the communications interface is associated with a number other than a toll free number. In yet another embodiment the communications interface is configured to initiate the telephone call.

In one embodiment the system further includes a validation logic that is configured to identify the device at least in part by obtaining the identifier associated with the device . Obtaining the identifier associated with the device ensures that the correct party e.g. the driver of the vehicle or the user associated with the device is notified that location of the vehicle will be monitored and that the correct party e.g. the driver of the vehicle or the user associated with the device consents to the monitoring of the location. In one embodiment the identifier is a telephone number associated with the device . In one embodiment where the communications interface is associated with a toll free number as discussed above the validation logic is configured to identify the device at least in part by obtaining the telephone number associated with the device via automatic number identification ANI . As discussed above in reference to in other embodiments the identifier may be an identifier other than a telephone number.

The system further includes a notification logic that is configured to communicate a signal including data representing an automated voice message. In one embodiment the automated voice message provides a notice that includes information indicating that consenting to the monitoring of the location of the vehicle would result in the location of the vehicle or the device being disclosed. In another embodiment the automated voice message provides a location web address etc. where the notice may be found indicating that consenting to the monitoring of the location of the vehicle would result in the location of the vehicle or the device being disclosed. For example the automated voice message may indicate that the notice may be found at a web address and provide the web address.

The communications interface is configured to transmit the automated voice message to the device . The communications interface is further configured to receive from the device data indicating the user consent to monitoring of the location of the vehicle .

In one embodiment the automated voice message communicates that user s consent to the monitoring of the location of the vehicle may be indicated by performing an action on the communications device e.g. to indicate your consent to revealing your location please press 1. In this embodiment the communications interface is configured to receive data indicating that an action was performed on the device which indicates the user s consent e.g. the user pressed 1 .

In another embodiment the automated voice message communicates that the user s consent to the monitoring of the location of the vehicle may be indicated by speaking a particular word or phrase to be received by the device e.g. to indicate your consent to revealing your location please say yes. In this embodiment the communications interface is configured to receive a voice command from the device which indicates the user s consent e.g. the user said yes .

In one embodiment after receiving the user consent to the monitoring of the location of the device the communications interface transmits a request for the location information of the device and receives the location information of the communications device . The request for the location information of the device includes the identifier associated with the device .

In the illustrated embodiment after receiving the user consent to the monitoring of the location of the device the communications interface transmits a request for the location information of the device to a location information provider and receives the location information of the communications device from the location information provider .

In one embodiment the notification logic is further configured to communicate a signal including data representing a second automated voice message indicating that consent to the monitoring of the location of the vehicle is revocable via the device . In this embodiment the communications interface is configured to communicate to the device the second automated voice message and to receive confirmation of consent or revocation of consent to the monitoring of the location of the vehicle from the device .

In one embodiment the second automated voice message communicates that the user s confirmation of consent or the user s revocation of consent to the monitoring of the location of the vehicle may be indicated by performing an action on the communications device e.g. to indicate that you wish to revoke consent to revealing your location please press 1. In this embodiment the communications interface is configured to receive data indicating that an action was performed on the device which indicates the user s confirmation or revocation of consent e.g. the user pressed 1 .

In another embodiment the second automated voice message communicates that the user s confirmation of consent or the user s revocation of consent to the monitoring of the location of the vehicle may be indicated by speaking a particular word or phrase to be received by the device e.g. to indicate your confirmation of consent to revealing your location please say confirmed. In this embodiment the communications interface is configured to receive a voice command from the device which indicates the user s confirmation or revocation of consent e.g. the user said confirmed .

In one embodiment the user is given the option to temporarily revoke consent to the disclosure of location information. For example a driver may wish to make available his location to a carrier during certain hours during the work week but may not want the carrier to be able to obtain the driver s location during the weekend. The driver may operate the device to indicate a date and time when the driver wishes for the monitoring of the location of the vehicle to end or resume. Or the driver may operate the device to indicate an interval of time e.g. 2 hours during which the driver wishes to hide the location of the vehicle . In this embodiment the communications interface is configured to receive data indicating a time until which consent to the monitoring of the location of the vehicle is granted or revoked or an interval of time during which consent to the monitoring of the location of the vehicle is granted or revoked.

In one embodiment the user is given the option to temporarily revoke consent to the monitoring of the location of the vehicle by texting e.g. SMS message the term hide using the device . In one embodiment the user is given the option to indicate consent to the monitoring of the location of the vehicle by texting e.g. SMS message the term share using the device . In this embodiment the communications interface is configured to receive the text message as sent by the device which indicates the user s confirmation or revocation of consent. In another embodiment the user may speak the terms hide or share to temporarily revoke consent or to indicate consent to the monitoring of the location of the vehicle respectively. In this embodiment the communications interface is configured to receive a voice command from the device which indicates the user s confirmation or revocation of consent.

In one embodiment when the location of the vehicle is being disclosed the notification logic is further configured to periodically generate and the communications interface is further configured to periodically communicate a reminder notification message indicating that the location of the vehicle is currently being disclosed. In one embodiment the system reminds the user every 30 days that the location of the vehicle is currently being disclosed. In another embodiment the system reminds the user more or less often than every 30 days that the location of the vehicle is currently being disclosed.

In one embodiment the communications interface reminds the user in an automated voice message that the location of the vehicle is currently being disclosed. In another embodiment the communications interface reminds the user in an SMS message that the location of the vehicle is currently being disclosed. In yet another embodiment the communications interface reminds the user via electronic communication other than an automated voice message or an SMS message that the location of the vehicle is currently being disclosed.

Example methods may be better appreciated with reference to the flow diagrams of . While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the illustrated methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be appreciated that the methodologies are not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks can occur in different orders or concurrently with other blocks from that shown or described. Moreover less than all the illustrated blocks may be required to implement an example methodology. Furthermore additional or alternative methodologies can employ additional not illustrated blocks.

In the flow diagrams blocks denote processing blocks that may be implemented with logic. The processing blocks may represent a method step or an apparatus element for performing the method step. A flow diagram does not depict syntax for any particular programming language methodology or style e.g. procedural object oriented . Rather a flow diagram illustrates functional information one skilled in the art may employ to develop logic to perform the illustrated processing. It will be appreciated that in some examples program elements like temporary variables routine loops and so on are not shown. It will be further appreciated that electronic and software applications may involve dynamic and flexible processes so that the illustrated blocks can be performed in other sequences that are different from those shown or that blocks may be combined or separated into multiple components. It will be appreciated that the processes may be implemented using various programming approaches like machine language procedural object oriented or artificial intelligence techniques.

In one example methodologies are implemented as processor executable instructions or operations provided on a computer readable medium. Thus in one example a computer readable medium may store processor executable instructions operable to perform the methods of .

While illustrate various actions occurring in serial it is to be appreciated that various actions illustrated in could occur substantially in parallel. While a number of processes are described it is to be appreciated that a greater or lesser number of processes could be employed and that lightweight processes regular processes threads and other approaches could be employed. It is to be appreciated that other example methods may in some cases also include actions that occur substantially in parallel.

At the method includes receiving a third electronic signal from the location information provider including data representing the location information of the communications device. At the method includes correlating the location information of the communications device with the location of the vehicle based at least in part on the communications device being associated with the user who is associated with the vehicle. At the method includes transmitting a fourth electronic signal including data representing the location of the vehicle. In one embodiment the transmitting the fourth electronic signal including data representing the location of the vehicle includes exposing an application programming interface API from which the requesting party can access the location of the vehicle.

In one embodiment the location information of the communications device is originally obtained using a method including a technique other than a technique utilizing a global position system GPS satellite receiver that forms part of the communications device. In one embodiment the location information of the communications device is originally obtained using a method including at least one of advance forward link trilateration AFLT observed time difference OTD Cell ID CID and obtaining a range of locations corresponding to a transmission range of a single radio tower.

In one embodiment the user of the communications device is a driver of the vehicle. In one embodiment the location information provider corresponds to one of a wireless service provider providing wireless service to the communications device or a third party that obtains the location information from the wireless service provider providing wireless service to the communications device. In one embodiment the requesting party corresponds to one of a freight service provider wherein the location of the vehicle is transmitted to the freight service provider for the freight service provider to have access to location of freight carried by the vehicle or the driver of the vehicle requesting that the location of the vehicle be transmitted to a freight service provider for the freight service provider to have access to location of freight carried by the vehicle.

At the method includes transforming the location information of the communications device into location information regarding the vehicle based at least in part on the communications device being associated with the user of the communications device who is also associated with the vehicle.

In one embodiment the location information of the communications device is originally obtained by a wireless service provider providing wireless service to the communications device. In one embodiment the location information of the communications device includes location information obtained in compliance with E911. In one embodiment the location information of the communications device is originally obtained using a method not requiring a global position system GPS satellite receiver to form part of the communications device. In one embodiment the location information of the communications device is originally obtained through triangulation between radio towers. In one embodiment the location information of the communications device is originally obtained using a range of locations corresponding to a transmission range of a single radio tower.

In one embodiment the location signal is received from one of a wireless service provider or a third party who receives the location information from the wireless service provider.

In other embodiments the identifier is an identifier other than a telephone number. For example the identifier may be a mobile identification number MIN an electronic serial number ESN an International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI a Mobile Equipment Identifier MEID a Manufacturer s Serial Number MSN a Mobile Subscriber Integrated Services Digital Network MSISDN number a Media Access Control MAC address combinations thereof and so on.

At the method includes transmitting to the communications device a signal including data representing an automated voice message. The automated voice message communicates to the user of the communications device at least one of a a notice including information indicating that consenting to the monitoring of the location of the vehicle would result in the location of the vehicle or the location of the communications device being disclosed or b a location at which to find the notice. At the method includes receiving from the user via the communications device consent for monitoring the location of the vehicle.

In one embodiment the receiving from the communications device consent for monitoring the location of the vehicle includes receiving data indicating that the user has performed an action on the communications device. For example the user may have pressed a key in the communications device touched or swipe a particular portion of the device s screen shaken the communications device combinations thereon and so on. In another embodiment the receiving from the communications device consent for monitoring the location of the vehicle includes receiving a voice command from the communications device.

In one embodiment once consent has been obtained from the user of the communications device the method includes periodically communicating to the user via the communications device a notification message indicating that the location is being disclosed.

In one embodiment after receiving from the user consent for monitoring the location of the vehicle the method includes transmitting a request for the location information of the communications device and receiving the location information of the communications device.

In one embodiment after receiving the location information of the communications device the method includes communicating the location of the vehicle to a receiving party. In one embodiment communicating the location of the vehicle to a receiving party includes a transmitting the communicating the location of the vehicle to the receiving party through computer communication or b exposing an application programming interface API from which the receiving party can access the location of the vehicle.

At the method includes communicating to the user via an automated voice message transmitted to the communications device information indicating that consent to the monitoring of the location of the vehicle associated with the user is revocable via the communications device. At the method includes receiving from the communications device revocation of the consent to the monitoring of the location of the vehicle associated with the user.

In one embodiment the receiving from the communications device revocation of consent to the monitoring of the location of the vehicle includes receiving data indicating that the user has performed an action on the communications device. For example the user may have pressed a key in the communications device touched or swipe a particular portion of the device s screen shaken the communications device combinations thereon and so on. In another embodiment the receiving from the communications device revocation of consent to the monitoring of the location of the vehicle includes receiving a voice command from the communications device.

In one embodiment the revocation of consent is temporary and the receiving from the communications device revocation of the consent to the monitoring of the location of the vehicle includes receiving data indicating a a time at which consent to the monitoring of the location of the vehicle is revoked b a time until which the consent to the monitoring of the location of the vehicle is revoked or c an interval of time during which the consent to the monitoring of the location of the vehicle is revoked. Consent is revoked at the time indicated or at the beginning of the indicated interval of time. Consent is unrevoked at the indicated time until which the consent to the monitoring of the location of the vehicle is revoked or upon expiration of the indicated interval of time during which the consent to the monitoring of the location of the vehicle is revoked.

In one embodiment the user is given the option to temporarily revoke consent to the monitoring of the location of the vehicle by texting e.g. SMS message the term hide using the device . In one embodiment the user is given the option to indicate consent to the monitoring of the location of the vehicle by texting e.g. SMS message the term share using the device . In another embodiment the user may speak the terms hide or share to temporarily revoke consent or to indicate consent to the monitoring of the location of the vehicle respectively. In one embodiment words other than hide or share may be used to temporarily revoke consent or to indicate consent to the monitoring of the location of the vehicle respectively.

In the illustrated embodiment the user interface displays Start End Monitoring buttons operable by a user to end or start monitoring of the location of the vehicle. The user interface further displays the Telephone Number corresponding to the communications device associated with a user associated with the vehicle. The user interface further displays the Monitoring Term which corresponds to the total amount of time e.g. 2 hours that the location of the associated vehicle will be monitored. The user interface further displays the Monitoring Interval which corresponds to how often within the Monitoring Term e.g. every 15 minutes the location of the vehicle is updated. In the illustrated embodiment the user interface displays the Location as latitude and longitude coordinates. In another embodiment the user interface displays the Location in a format other than latitude and longitude coordinates. In one embodiment a user may click on Location to display a map that includes a mark indicating the location of the vehicle on the map.

In one embodiment an operator of a system for monitoring location of a vehicle or some other party who provides vehicle location monitoring services to a user charges fees to the user on a per load basis or a per time monitored basis. A common practice in the vehicle location monitoring services industry is to charge a user a standard flat monthly fee for monitoring services. This is at least in part due to limitations of conventional systems for monitoring vehicle location. The systems and methods for monitoring location of a vehicle disclosed herein provide the provider of vehicle location monitoring services with the ability to charge for the services on a per load basis or a per time monitored basis. For example a user may operate the user interface or any other means to interface with the system for monitoring location of vehicles to set a time to start or end monitoring of the location of five vehicles e.g. Start End Monitoring buttons .

In one embodiment where the provider of vehicle location monitoring services provides its services on a per load or a per time monitored basis at a set or negotiated rate per load per unit time the system may keep track of the number of vehicles i.e. five whose location is monitored as well as the total amount of time for which vehicles location is monitored i.e. total time 5 vehicles rate . The operator may use the Monitoring Term to establish the total amount of time e.g. 2 hours or the Monitoring Interval to establish the frequency within the Monitoring Term e.g. every 15 minutes that the location of the vehicle or vehicles is monitored. With this information available to the operator s billing system the operator can charge fees to the user on a per load basis or a per time monitored basis.

In the illustrated embodiment the user interface displays a Partner Code. The Partner Code field may display a code corresponding to a partner company or driver. For example a carrier A may subcontract with another carrier NAT to move freight from location 1 to location 2. The user interface displays the carrier NAT associated with the Telephone Number 555 555 5555.

The user interface further displays a Reference Number. In one embodiment the Reference Number field is a customizable field that carriers can use to identify a particular load a particular vehicle a particular order etc. In one embodiment the Reference Number appears in invoices and other documents to facilitate efficient system administration.

The user interface further displays the Status of the vehicle. For example the Status may indicate that the system is Monitoring the vehicle. In another example the Status may display that the vehicle is Hidden to indicate that the user associated with the vehicle has temporarily revoked consent to monitoring of the vehicle s location. Other possible Status indicators include a Ready to monitor which indicates that the monitoring of the location of the vehicle is setup and the system is awaiting location information data b Expired which indicates that the Monitoring Term has expired and c Denied which indicates that the user denied consent to monitoring the location of the vehicle.

In one embodiment the user interface is used to add vehicles whose location is to be monitored. A user may use field to enter the identifier corresponding to the communications device associated with the vehicle whose location is to be monitored. In one embodiment not illustrated the user interface provides a pull down menu from which the user may chose an identifier. The user may further enter the Monitoring Term in field the Monitoring Interval in field the Partner Code in field and the Reference Number in field . In one embodiment not illustrated the user interface provides each of these fields as pull down menus.

In some cases the requesting party may not know the identifier corresponding to the vehicle or the user may know the identifier but not have authorization to monitoring the location of the vehicle associated with the identifier. In one embodiment not shown the user may enter a Partner Code that serves as verification that the user has obtained authorization from the partner to monitor location of the vehicle associated with the identifier. This feature may also serve to keep the user from learning the identifier in cases where the user associated with the vehicle the partner or some other party desires not to reveal the identifier to the requesting party.

In one embodiment the user associated with the vehicle e.g. driver may enter the Partner Code. For example the user associated with the vehicle may be an independent driver who wishes for the location information of his vehicle to be monitored by a carrier so that the carrier may assign freight for the driver to haul. However the carrier may not want every driver in the field to do this freely because of the potential costs associated with monitoring the location of a large number of vehicles. The carrier may require the driver to enter a Partner Code obtained from the carrier that serves as verification that the driver has obtained authorization from the carrier for the location of the driver s vehicle to be monitored by the carrier.

Referring now to an application programming interface API is illustrated providing access to a system for monitoring location of a vehicle to a receiving party. The API can be employed for example by a programmer or a process to gain access to processing performed by the system . For example a programmer can write a program to access the system e.g. invoke its operation obtain its operation set up its operation monitor location of a vehicle where writing the program is facilitated by the presence of the API . Rather than programmer having to understand the internals of the system the programmer merely has to learn the interface to the system . This facilitates encapsulating the functionality of the system while exposing that functionality.

Similarly the API can be employed to provide data values to the system or retrieve data values from the system . For example a process that processes location of a vehicle can provide an identifier to the system via the API by for example using a call provided in the API . Thus in one example of the API a set of application programming interfaces can be stored on a computer readable medium. The interfaces can be employed by a programmer computer component logic and so on to gain access to a system for monitoring location of a vehicle.

The processor can be a variety of various processors including dual microprocessor and other multi processor architectures. The memory can include volatile memory or non volatile memory. The non volatile memory can include but is not limited to ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM and the like. Volatile memory can include for example RAM synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM and direct RAM bus RAM DRRAM .

A disk may be operably connected to the computer via for example a communications interface e.g. card device and an I O Ports . The disk can include but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive a solid state disk drive a floppy disk drive a tape drive a Zip drive a flash memory card or a memory stick. Furthermore the disk can include optical drives like a CD ROM a CD recordable drive CD R drive a CD rewriteable drive CD RW drive or a digital video ROM drive DVD ROM . The memory can store processes or data for example. The disk or memory can store an operating system that controls and allocates resources of the computer .

The bus can be a single internal bus interconnect architecture or other bus or mesh architectures. While a single bus is illustrated it is to be appreciated that computer may communicate with various devices logics and peripherals using other busses that are not illustrated e.g. PCIE SATA lnfiniband USB Ethernet . The bus can be of a variety of types including but not limited to a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or external bus a crossbar switch or a local bus. The local bus can be of varieties including but not limited to an industrial standard architecture ISA bus a microchannel architecture MCA bus an extended ISA EISA bus a peripheral component interconnect PCI bus a universal serial USB bus and a small computer systems interface SCSI bus.

The computer may interact with input output devices via communications interface and I O Ports . Input output devices can include but are not limited to a keyboard a microphone a pointing and selection device cameras video cards displays disk network devices and the like. The I O Ports can include but are not limited to serial ports parallel ports and USB ports.

The computer can operate in a network environment and thus may be connected to network devices via the communications interface or the I O Ports . Through the network devices the computer may interact with a network. Through the network the computer may be logically connected to remote computers. The networks with which the computer may interact include but are not limited to a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and other networks. The network devices can connect to LAN technologies including but not limited to fiber distributed data interface FDDI copper distributed data interface CDDI Ethernet IEEE 802.3 token ring IEEE 802.5 wireless computer communication IEEE 802.11 Bluetooth IEEE 802.15.1 Zigbee IEEE 802.15.4 and the like. Similarly the network devices can connect to WAN technologies including but not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like integrated services digital networks ISDN packet switching networks LTE networks GSM networks GPRS networks CDMA networks and digital subscriber lines DSL . While individual network types are described it is to be appreciated that communications via over or through a network may include combinations and mixtures of communications.

The following includes definitions of selected terms employed herein. The definitions include various examples forms or both of components that fall within the scope of a term and that may be used for implementation. The examples are not intended to be limiting. Both singular and plural forms of terms may be within the definitions.

As used in this application the term computer component refers to a computer related entity either hardware firmware software a combination thereof or software in execution. For example a computer component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be computer components. One or more computer components can reside within a process or thread of execution and a computer component can be localized on one computer or distributed between two or more computers.

 Computer communication as used herein refers to a communication between two or more computing devices e.g. computer personal digital assistant cellular telephone and can be for example a network transfer a file transfer an applet transfer an email a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP transfer and so on. A computer communication can occur across for example a wireless system e.g. IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.15 an Ethernet system e.g. IEEE 802.3 a token ring system e.g. IEEE 802.5 a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a point to point system a circuit switching system a packet switching system combinations thereof and so on.

 Computer readable medium as used herein refers to a medium that participates in directly or indirectly providing signals instructions or data. A computer readable medium may take forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media may include for example optical or magnetic disks and so on. Volatile media may include for example optical or magnetic disks dynamic memory and the like. Transmission media may include coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and the like. Transmission media can also take the form of electromagnetic radiation like that generated during radio wave and infra red data communications or take the form of one or more groups of signals. Common forms of a computer readable medium include but are not limited to a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk a magnetic tape other magnetic media a CD ROM other optical media punch cards paper tape other physical media with patterns of holes a RAM a ROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM or other memory chip or card a memory stick a carrier wave pulse and other media from which a computer a processor or other electronic device can read. Signals used to propagate instructions or other software over a network like the Internet can be considered a computer readable medium. 

 Data store as used herein refers to a physical or logical entity that can store data. A data store may be for example a database a table a file a list a queue a heap a memory a register and so on. A data store may reside in one logical or physical entity or may be distributed between two or more logical or physical entities.

A logic as used herein includes but is not limited to hardware firmware software or combinations of each to perform a function s or an action s or to cause a function or action from another logic method or system. For example based on a desired application or needs a logic may include a software controlled microprocessor discrete logic like an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a programmed logic device a memory device containing instructions or the like. A logic may include one or more gates combinations of gates or other circuit components. A logic may also be fully embodied as software. Where multiple logical logics are described it may be possible to incorporate the multiple logical logics into one physical logic. Similarly where a single logical logic is described it may be possible to distribute that single logical logic between multiple physical logics.

An operable connection or a connection by which entities are operably connected is one in which signals physical communications or logical communications may be sent or received. Typically an operable connection includes a physical interface an electrical interface or a data interface but it is to be noted that an operable connection may include differing combinations of these or other types of connections sufficient to allow operable control. For example two entities can be operably connected by being able to communicate signals to each other directly or through one or more intermediate entities like a processor operating system a logic software or other entity. Logical or physical communication channels can be used to create an operable connection.

 Signal as used herein includes but is not limited to one or more electrical or optical signals analog or digital signals data one or more computer or processor instructions messages a bit or bit stream or other means that can be received transmitted or detected.

 Software as used herein includes but is not limited to one or more computer or processor instructions that can be read interpreted compiled or executed and that cause a computer processor or other electronic device to perform functions actions or behave in a desired manner. The instructions may be embodied in various forms like routines algorithms modules methods threads or programs including separate applications or code from dynamically or statically linked libraries. Software may also be implemented in a variety of executable or loadable forms including but not limited to a stand alone program a function call local or remote a servelet an applet instructions stored in a memory part of an operating system or other types of executable instructions. It will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that the form of software may depend for example on requirements of a desired application the environment in which it runs or the desires of a designer programmer or the like. It will also be appreciated that computer readable or executable instructions can be located in one logic or distributed between two or more communicating co operating or parallel processing logics and thus can be loaded or executed in serial parallel massively parallel and other manners.

Suitable software for implementing the various components of the example systems and methods described herein may be produced using programming languages and tools like Java Java Script Java.NET ASP.NET VB.NET Cocoa Pascal C C C CGI Perl SQL APIs SDKs assembly firmware microcode or other languages and tools. Software whether an entire system or a component of a system may be embodied as an article of manufacture and maintained or provided as part of a computer readable medium as defined previously. Another form of the software may include signals that transmit program code of the software to a recipient over a network or other communication medium. Thus in one example a computer readable medium has a form of signals that represent the software firmware as it is downloaded from a web server to a user. In another example the computer readable medium has a form of the software firmware as it is maintained on the web server. Other forms may also be used.

 User as used herein includes but is not limited to one or more persons software computers or other devices or combinations of these.

To the extent that the term includes or including is employed in the detailed description or the claims it is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as that term is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim. Furthermore to the extent that the term or is employed in the detailed description or claims e.g. A or B it is intended to mean A or B or both . When the applicants intend to indicate only A or B but not both then the term only A or B but not both will be employed. Thus use of the term or herein is the inclusive and not the exclusive use. See Bryan A. Garner A Dictionary of Modern Legal Usage 624 2d. Ed. 1995 .

While example systems methods and so on have been illustrated by describing examples and while the examples have been described in considerable detail it is not the intention to restrict or in any way limit the scope of the appended claims to such detail. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the systems methods and so on described herein. Additional advantages and modifications will readily appear to those skilled in the art. Therefore the invention is not limited to the specific details and illustrative examples shown or described. Thus this application is intended to embrace alterations modifications and variations that fall within the scope of the appended claims. Furthermore the preceding description is not meant to limit the scope of the invention. Rather the scope of the invention is to be determined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

