---

title: Method and apparatus for simultaneous observation of three-degrees of vibrational freedom using single heterodyne beam
abstract: A laboratory system has demonstrated the measurement of three degrees of vibrational freedom simultaneously using a single beam through heterodyne speckle imaging. The random interference pattern generated by the illumination of a rough surface with coherent light can be exploited to extract information about the surface motion. The optical speckle pattern is heterodyne mixed with a coherent reference. The recorded optical data is then processed to extract three dimensions of surface motion. Axial velocity is measured by demodulating the received time-varying intensity of high amplitude pixels. Tilt, a gradient of surface velocity, is calculated by measuring speckle translation following reconstruction of the speckle pattern from the mixed signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09651477&OS=09651477&RS=09651477
owner: THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, AS REPRESENTED BY THE SECRETARY OF THE ARMY
number: 09651477
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160401
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used sold imported and or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America.

The present invention relates to coherent optical vibration sensing specifically for observation of three degrees of freedom using temporal heterodyne speckle imaging.

An article co authored by James Perea and Brad Libbey the co inventors entitled Development of a heterodyne speckle imager to measure 3 degrees of vibrational freedom was submitted to The Optical Society earlier in 2016 for publication in an Optical Express publication in 2016 the publication date TBD.

Coherent optical vibration sensors have been investigated for use in numerous applications including strain measurements equipment diagnostics medical imaging and seismic sensing. Various techniques are utilized to observe surface motion. These techniques include but are not limited to heterodyne laser Doppler vibrometry e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 834 111 A Khanna et al. for observation of surface velocity in the axial dimension of the interrogation beam shearography e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 011 280 A Hung for observation of the gradient of displacement in two dimensions electronic speckle pattern interferometry e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 018 531 A Leendertz for in plane or out of plane displacement or out of plane displacement gradients and speckle pattern imaging for out of plane displacements. The techniques listed are generally used for observation of one or two degrees of freedom. Variations using multiple coherent beams e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 7 242 481 B2 Shpantzer et al. have been used to observe three degrees of freedom.

The current invention combines elements of heterodyne Doppler vibrometry and digital speckle photography along with signal processing routines to simultaneously observe velocity in the axial dimension of the interrogation beam and out of plane tilts of the illuminated region. This provides the ability to observe three degrees of freedom using a single coherent beam.

The disclosure relates to measuring the motion of a surface plane by imaging optical speckle that has been modulated by a heterodyne process. A process takes the sequence of heterodyne images and extracts motion with three degrees of freedom. The device takes advantage of a probing optical field that illuminates the rough surface. The spatial optical field is described based on previous work. See e.g. P. Hariharan Basics of Interferometry Academic Press 2007 P. Jacquot and J. M. Fournier Interferometry in Speckle Light Theory and Applications Springer 2000 H. J. Tiziani Analysis of Mechanical Oscillations by Speckling Applied Optics vol. 11 no. 12 pp. 2911 2917 1972 and R. Jones and C. Wykes Holographic and Speckle Interferometry Cambridge University Press 1983. These models are typically independent of time but this invention takes advantage of surface motion that affects the probe beam by causing a phase shift due to path length change over time. The invention adds an optical frequency shift to observe these phase and amplitude shifts creating a heterodyne system.

The moving surface alters the path length of a probe beam in time. To aid in understanding this invention it is useful to define the geometry of this moving surface. This surface is described in a z coordinate system where and are in the surface plane and z is orthogonal to the plane. The sensor can determine two types of motion out of plane pistoning in the axial direction z and tilting of the plane in two directions. Out of plane motion results in a Doppler phase shift and tilting results in a translation of the speckle image. See e.g. R. Jones and C. Wykes Holographic and Speckle Interferometry Cambridge University Press 1983 incorporated herein by reference. A single dimension of tilting is presented to simplify illustration however the addition of a second tilting degree of freedom parallels the picture below and is superimposed in the section detailing the invention. The moving surface has a pivot point that is allowed to translate in the z direction but is otherwise located at a fixed position . The position of a scattering point P originally on the z 0 plane at 0 0 will be moved to a new location P . This motion extends the path length of reflected light the path length is used to determine the speckle image resulting from these two locations in a method paralleling Tiziani. See e.g. H. J. Tiziani Analysis of Mechanical Oscillations by Speckling Applied Optics vol. 11 no. 12 pp. 2911 2917 1972 incorporated herein by reference. 

In one aspect an exemplary heterodyne speckle imaging sensor system is disclosed. In another aspect an exemplary method for simultaneous observation of three degrees of vibrational freedom is disclosed based on a heterodyne speckle imaging sensor system.

Finally an exemplary signal processing method is disclosed for computing three degrees of vibrational freedom using a heterodyne beam. Such a signal processing method comprises the steps of accessing a complete measurement of temporal spatial irradiance data obtained using a heterodyne beam as stored as pixel frames of image data on a computer high pass filtering each pixel independently to isolate heterodyne signal from the complete measurement to output heterodyne information at a local oscillator frequency applying a computation process for sequential estimates of a detected probe speckle pattern amplitude to compute two dimensions of tilt based on time sequences applying a parallel demodulation process based on an arctangent demodulation for Doppler shifted heterodyne signals applied to each pixel to calculate z axis velocity and displaying a representation of the computed tilt based on time sequences and the calculated z axis velocity on a data display device.

Before entering into the detailed description of one embodiment of the present invention according to the accompanying Figures the theory of the present invention will be explained hereinafter.

The variation in path length P due to tilt and translation is a combination of the incoming and outgoing light. The incoming light is assumed to be coherent and planar at an angle relative to the surface plane. The image plane is assumed to be sufficiently far such that outgoing light is orthogonal to the surface plane. The path variation is geometrically determined sin 1 cos 1 cos sin 1 cos where is angular change due to the tilting surface to which a small angle assumption is applied sin 

In the description below the direction of illumination and hence the Doppler velocity are assumed to be aligned with the z axis 0. 2 sin 2 If we maintained the cos term through the subsequent equations the velocity would be measured along an axis that is acute with the plane. This increases the utility of the method to horizontal translation as well as pistoning.

An exemplary heterodyne speckle imaging system is represented in . Such an exemplary heterodyne speckle imaging sensor system is shown comprising a laser source a beam splitter 750 mm bi convex lens a first mirror a dynamic diffuse scatterer 500 mm bi convex lens a second mirror 250 mm plano convex lens a third mirror a polarizing filter a first acousto optic modulator AOM1 80.01 MHz upshift a second acousto optic modulator AOM2 80 MHz downshift a fourth mirror 50 mm plano convex lens 50 m diameter spatial filter 250 mm plano convex lens another polarizing filter another beam splitter 64 64 pixel detector a trans impedance amplifier sampling at 30 kHz and a signal processor and data display .

Some of the resulting scattered radiation is collected by a single lens . The radiation is redirected using a mirror and propagates through a secondary optic which defocuses the field relative to the image plane . An additional mirror redirects the beam through a dichroic polarizing filter where the horizontally polarized radiation is absorbed . The radiation from the probe beam propagates to a second beam splitter where half the radiation propagates through the splitter and half is redirected towards the focal plane array . The probe leg electric field at the image plane can be described as U x y t at one time and U x y t at a later time. Where U x y t is a phase modified version of U x y t the field at a previous frame. The relationship between the these fields is

Following initial propagation through the beam splitter the reference beam propagates through two acousto optic modulators AOM1 and AOM2 . AOM1 upshifts the frequency of the electromagnetic field by a specified amount AOM2 downshift the frequency by an amount less than the upshift producing a modest frequency offset of the reference field. A mirror redirects the reference beam where it propagates through a focusing lens to focus the beam . An aperture is placed at the focal point of acting as a spatial filter to spatial filter the beam . The diverging beam propagates to another lens which collimates the expanded beam . The resulting electromagnetic radiation propagates through a dichroic polarizing filter where the horizontally polarized radiation is absorbed . The reference field propagates to the beam splitter where half the radiation transmits through the splitter.

The device uses the same propagation distance the distance between splitter mirror and beam splitter on both probe and reference fields. The beam splitter additively combines the probe and reference electric fields in the region between splitter and the focal plane array . The total field Uat the image plane is the superposition of the probe and reference fields. 3 The focal plane array transduces the irradiance of these two fields into an electrical charge proportional to the irradiance. 4 

The system relies on a heterodyne component where the reference field strength amplifies the probe field. This is possible since the reference field is frequency shifted at a frequency equal to the difference frequency of AOM1 and AOM2 . The magnitude 2R P of the heterodyne irradiance shifts spatially in direct proportion to the surface tilt . The phase terms associated with cos t contain sufficient information to compute the z axis velocity of the surface. This phase term modulates the local oscillator frequency . The phase is

A trans impedance amplifier circuit converts charge from the focal plane array into a digital representation of the irradiance on a computer . The acquisition is repeated sequentially in time at a frame rate sufficient to observe the intermediate carrier frequency resulting from the upshift and downshift from the acousto optic modulators and . The focal plane array also has sufficient pixels to observe speckles caused by light reflected from a diffuse target.

The sequence of image frames captured on the computer undergoes a process on the same computer to calculate tilt in the x and y directions and respectively as well as axial velocity in the z direction. The process is outlined in with two process sequences.

A parallel sequence of the processing is used to calculate z axis velocity. This demodulation process uses a standard arctangent demodulation for Doppler shifted heterodyne signals applied to each pixel. See e.g. B. K. Park O. Boric Lubecke and V. M. Lubecke Arctangent demodulation with DC offset compensation in quadrature Doppler radar receiver systems IEEE Trans. Microw. Theory Tech. vol. 55 no. 5 pp. 1073 1079 May 2007 incorporated herein by reference. The output of filter provides the heterodyne information at the local oscillator frequency necessary to begin the demodulation. In phase and quadrature are calculated by multiplying each pixel by the sine and cosine of the local oscillator frequency . The resulting in phase Iand quadrature Qtime sequences are low pass filtered to remove unwanted components at frequencies greater than . sin 8 cos 9 The in phase and quadrature terms are then processed in block that contains mathematical equation 10 and produces an estimate of the Doppler phase at each pixel

It is obvious that many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as described.

