---

title: Determining electronic media format when transferring a customer between specialists or amongst communication sources at a customer service outlet
abstract: Systems, apparatus, and computer program products are provided for determining the media format for transferring a customer from customer between specialists and/or from one communication source to another communication source within a customer service outlet, such as a banking center or the like. For example, while a two-way video conference system may be used for communication between a customer and a remote specialist, in certain instances in which the customer requires transfer to another specialist (e.g., a specialist having a different specialty) other media formats, such as one-way live video conference, live audio-only conference, text chat or the like may be implemented.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09467652&OS=09467652&RS=09467652
owner: BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
number: 09467652
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160211
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 461 131 filed Aug. 15 2014 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

In general embodiments of the invention relate to communication services and more particularly determining the form of electronic media to implement when transferring a customer between specialists and or from one communication source to another communication source within a customer service outlet such as a banking center or the like.

Customers of businesses such as financial institutions or the like that have many customer service outlets otherwise referred to as centers branches or the like have come to expect that when they visit any of the service outlets the service outlet will have the immediate capability to address their particular special needs or services. However as businesses such as financial institutions streamline their operations for the sake of efficiency they have come to realize that round the clock location of specialists at each service outlet center is inefficient. For example in the financial institution setting if each banking center employs at least one full time mortgage loan specialist a full time small business specialist and or a full time personal financial advisor specialist the specialist may only be called upon in regards to their specialty in the event a customer visits the banking center requiring assistance in the area of specialty.

Certain businesses such as financial institutions and the like have addressed the problem associated with staffing service outlets with full time specialists by implementing video conferencing systems. Specifically such video conferencing systems may employ two way video conferencing communication between a customer who is located at the service outlet banking center and a specialist who is located remote from the service outlet center such that both customer and specialist receive audio and video feeds of the other participant. Alternatively a one way video conferencing system provides the customer a video and audio feed of a remote specialist while the remote specialist is limited to receiving an audio feed from the customer. Such video conferencing systems are set up in private settings within the business to provide the customer assurance that the information exchanged during the communication session is held in private. In this regard a customer service outlet center equipped with video conferencing communication can provide customers on demand access to specialists having different areas of specialty expertise without requiring the full time physical presence of the specialist at the business outlet center.

In certain instances it becomes apparent that a customer that is participating in a video conferencing communication session or any other media based communication requires further assistance such as from another specialist either another specialist of the same specialty or another specialist of a different specialty i.e. a different line of business or the like . Additionally the further assistance that may be required may be some form of self service assistance in which the customer need not rely on communication with another business associate or specialist. In such instances the further assistance may require the customer to transfer from one communication source to another source e.g. from a video communication mechanism to a tablet device personal computer device or the like. 

Currently in the video conferencing environment the options for transferring transitioning the customer are rather limited either the specialist that is communicating with the customer can provide the customer a referral i.e. provide the name of a an associate specialist who may or may not be located at the banking center where the customer is currently located or the specialist can instruct the customer to exit the current video conference communication session and subsequently re dial or initiate a new video conference communication session with the other specialist. However both options result in ineffective customer service. Both the referral process and the initiation of a new video conference communication session create undesirable time delay and efficiencies in the communication between the customer and the business. Such time delay is not only burdensome to the customer but from the business perspective also poses a serious threat to lost business opportunities. From the inefficiency perspective since both the referral process and the initiation of a new video conference communication session result in a communication disconnect any information shared with the initial specialist private or otherwise is not readily susceptible to being shared or otherwise available to the subsequent specialist.

Moreover when transferring a customer between specialists or amongst different communication platforms the business may want to insure that the customer s needs are met and or that the cost effective source of communication is used upon transfer.

Therefore a need exists to develop systems apparatus methods computer program products and the like that provide for assisting in the seamless transfer of a customer when transitioning between specialists and or amongst different communication sources. The desired aspects should alleviate problems related to disconnects and or time delays associated with a customer requiring communication with another specialist and or communication source mechanism. In addition the desired systems apparatus methods computer program products and the like should allow for customer information private or otherwise to be readily shared amongst specialists so as to eliminate the need of the customer to communicate information to a subsequent specialist that was previously communicated to the first specialist. Moreover the desired aspects should address the need to determine and provide the level of service i.e. the appropriate specialist and or appropriate communication source required by the customer when communicating with the subsequent on site business knowledge source i.e. specialist communication source business application or the like so as to meet the expectations of the customer while balancing cost effectiveness on behalf of the business.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Embodiments of the present invention address the above needs and or achieve other advantages by providing apparatus methods computer program products or the like for determining the electronic media format when transferring a customer from business knowledge source to another business knowledge source e.g. specialist to specialist application to specialist specialist to application and the like . The electronic media format that is provided to the customer may include two way live video conference one way live video conference live audio only conference text chat pre recorded video pre recorded audio online network content presentations and the like. The determination of which electronic media format to provide to the customer may be based on business rules which take into account one or more of a the reason for the transfer b the status profile of the customer c predicted duration of the transferred communication and the like. Moreover the determination may be based on the electronic media formats supported by the specialist and or the entity line of business LOB .

A system for selecting the media format when transferring a customer between business knowledge sources communication sources mechanisms or applications platforms at a customer service outlet defines first embodiments of the invention. The system includes an apparatus located within a business location. The apparatus includes a computing platform having a memory a processor and at least one of a display a video camera a speaker and a microphone all of which are in communication with a processor device. The apparatus is configured to implement one or more of the display the video camera and the speaker and the microphone to provide a customer a communication platform for conducting a media based communication session with a specialist located remote from the business location.

The system further includes a customer transferring module stored in a memory and executable by a processor. The customer transferring module is configured to receive a request to transfer a customer from a first specialist to a second specialist during the communication session and in response to receiving the request apply at least one business rule to determine a media format to implement for communication between the customer and the second specialist. The media format may be one of two way video conference one way video conference audio only or text chat. Additionally the module is configured to initiate during the ongoing communication session transfer of the customer from the first specialist to the second specialist using the determined media format.

In specific embodiments of the system the customer transferring module is further configured to apply the business rule to determine the media format wherein the business rule that is applied provides for choosing the media format based on one or more of business status of the customer customer profile information or historical interactions with the customer. In other related embodiments of the system the business rule that is applied provides for choosing the media format based on one or more of a specialty of the second specialist or a predicted duration of the transferred communication. In a specific embodiment of the system the business rule that is applied provides for prioritizing selection of video communication as the media format based on availability of video communication from an entity associated with the second specialist. In a still further embodiment of the system the business rule that is applied provides selecting the media format based on a shortest queue time for transferring to the second specialist.

In a further specific embodiment of the system the customer transferring module is further configured to seamlessly initiate transfer of the customer from the first specialist to the second specialist using video conferencing communication as the determined media format. In such embodiments of the system the module may be further configured to present in a transfer mode a dual screen display of a first video stream of the first specialist and a second video stream of the second specialist such that the two specialists are visible in the display up until the point where the first specialist hands off the communication session to the second specialist.

A method for selecting the media format when transferring a customer between business knowledge sources communication sources mechanisms or applications platforms at a customer service outlet defines second embodiments of the invention. The method includes receiving a request to transfer a customer from a first specialist to a second specialist during a media based communication session and in response to receiving the request determining a media format to implement for communication between the customer and the second specialist based on application of one or more business rules. The method further includes seamlessly initiating during the communication session transfer of the customer from the first specialist to the second specialist using the determined media format. The media format that is selected may one of two way video communication one way video communication audio only communication or text chat communication.

In specific embodiments of the method determining the media format further includes determining a media format to implement for communication between the customer and the second specialist based on application of one or more business rules. In such embodiments of the method the business rule that is applied provides for choosing the media format based on one or more of business status of the customer customer profile information or historical interactions with the customer. In other related embodiments of the method the business rule that is applied provides for choosing the media format based on a specialty of the second specialist and or the predicted duration of the transferred communication session. In one specific embodiment of the method the business rule that is applied provides for prioritizing selection of video communication as the media format based on availability of video communication from an entity associated with the second specialist. In yet another specific embodiment of the method the business rule that is applied provides selecting the media format based on a shortest queue time for transferring to the second specialist.

In specific embodiments of the method determining the media format further includes determining video communication as the media format. In such embodiments the method further includes presenting in a transfer mode a dual screen display of a first video stream of the first specialist and a second video stream of the second specialist.

A computer program product including a non transitory computer readable medium defines third embodiments of the invention. The computer readable medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to receive a request to transfer a customer from a first specialist to a second specialist during a media based communication session. The computer readable medium additionally includes a second set of codes for causing a computer to in response to receiving the request determine a media format to implement for communication between the customer and the second specialist based on application of one or more business rules. In addition the computer readable medium includes a third set of codes for causing a computer to during the communication session seamlessly initiate transfer of the customer from the first specialist to the second specialist using the determined media format.

Thus systems apparatus methods and computer program products herein described in detail below provide for determining the electronic media format for transferring a customer between specialists and or amongst different communication sources i.e. applications or devices mechanisms within a customer service outlet such as a banking center or the like. For example while a two way video conference system may be used for communication between a customer and a remote specialist in certain instances in which the customer requires transfer to another specialist e.g. a specialist having a different specialty other media formats such as one way live video conference live audio only conference text chat or the like may be implemented. Alternatively in other instances in which the customer requires transition to a self service application e.g. an application that does not require live interaction with an associate specialist other media formats such as pre recorded video or audio online network content presentations may suffice which may dictate a transfer in communication sources i.e. transferring to an onsite tablet device PC or the like . The need to determine a change in electronic media format upon transferring transitioning between business knowledge sources may be based on media format availability and may take into account business rules that are based on cost effectiveness and the like. The business rules may take into account various factors such as but not limited to the reason for the transfer e.g. the type of specialist the type of application required the status of the customer the profile preferences of the customer the historical interactions with the customer and the like. Additionally other factors may influence the determination of the electronic media format for example the predicted duration of the transferred communication the capabilities of the specialist or application the current queue times and the like.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more embodiments. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and this description is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. Although some embodiments of the invention described herein are generally described as involving a financial institution one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the invention may be utilized by other businesses that take the place of or work in conjunction with financial institutions to perform one or more of the processes or steps described herein as being performed by a financial institution.

As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art in view of this disclosure the present invention may be embodied as an apparatus e.g. a system computer program product and or other device a method or a combination of the foregoing. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may generally be referred to herein as a system. Furthermore embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product comprising a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code computer readable instructions embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer usable or computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples e.g. a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a tangible medium such as a portable computer diskette a hard disk a time dependent access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM or other tangible optical or magnetic storage device.

Computer program code computer readable instructions for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may be written in an object oriented scripted or unscripted programming language such as Java Perl Smalltalk C or the like. However the computer program code computer readable instructions for carrying out operations of the invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages.

Embodiments of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods or apparatuses the term apparatus including systems and computer program products . It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that the instructions which execute by the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create mechanisms for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. Alternatively computer program implemented steps or acts may be combined with operator or human implemented steps or acts in order to carry out an embodiment of the invention.

According to embodiments of the invention described herein various systems apparatus methods and computer program products are herein described for determining the electronic media format for transferring transitioning a customer between specialists and or amongst different communication sources i.e. applications or devices mechanisms within a customer service outlet such as a banking center or the like. For example while a two way video conference system may be used for communication between a customer and a remote specialist in certain instances in which the customer requires transfer to another specialist e.g. a specialist having a different specialty other media formats such as one way live video conference live audio only conferencing text chat or the like may be implemented. In a further example in which the customer requires transition to a self service application i.e. an application that does not require live interaction with an associate specialist other media formats such as pre recorded video or audio online network content presentations may suffice and may require transfer to a different communication source. The need to determine a change in electronic media format upon transferring transitioning a customer between specialists and or communication sources may be based on media format availability and may take into account cost effectiveness and customer experience.

The determination of which electronic media format should be used for the transferred communication may be based upon business rules that may take into account various factors such as but not limited to the reason for the transfer i.e. the type of specialist the type information required or the like the status of the customer the profile preferences of the customer the historical interactions with the customer and the like. Additionally other factors may influence the determination of the electronic media format for example the predicted duration of the transferred communication the capabilities of the specialist or the application the current queue times and the like.

Referring to a combination schematic and block diagram is presented of a system for seamless customer transfer from one video conference specialist to another video conference specialist during an ongoing video conference communication session in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The system includes a first or customer implemented video conferencing apparatus that is located within a private setting in a business location such that the customer can communicate and exchange private information with a specialist through designated communication devices. In one specific example the first video conference apparatus may be located within an enclosed space at a financial institution such as a banking center. The customer implemented video conferencing apparatus includes a computing platform having a memory and a processor in communication with memory . In addition first video conferencing apparatus includes a display a video camera a speaker and a microphone all of which are in communication with the processor and may be embodied in hardware and or software. The video conferencing apparatus may include more than one device such as dedicated stationary video conferencing devices or the video conferencing apparatus may be a single device such as a mobile device i.e. computing tablet or the like . The memory of video conferencing apparatus stores customer video conferencing module that is configured to implement the display the video camera the speaker and the microphone to conduct a video and audio communication session i.e. a video chat session with a specialist that is located physically remote from the business location at which the first customer implemented video conferencing apparatus is located.

The first video conferencing apparatus is in network communication wired wireless or a combination thereof with a second or specialist implemented video conferencing apparatus . Second video conferencing apparatus may be any communication device that facilitates audio and video communication such as personal computer PC laptop computer mobile computing device e.g. tablet device mobile cellular telephone or the like. The specialist implemented video conferencing apparatus includes a computing platform having a memory and a processor in communication with memory . In addition second video conferencing apparatus includes a display a video camera a speaker and a microphone all of which are in communication with the processor and may be embodied in hardware and or software. The memory of second specialist implemented video conferencing apparatus stores specialist video conferencing module that is configured to implement the display the video camera the speaker and the microphone to conduct a video and audio communication session i.e. a video chat session with a customer that is located at the first video conferencing apparatus .

In accordance with embodiments of the present invention the specialist video conferencing module includes a customer transferring routine that is configured to provide the customer with seamless transfer between specialists during an ongoing video conference communication session. It should be noted that while the customer transferring routine is shown and described as being embodied in the specialist video conferencing module at least a portion of the customer transferring routine may also be embodied in the customer video conferencing module and or stored executed at a network based server. In the illustrated example of the customer is participating in a two way video conferencing communication session with a first specialist and requires seamless transfer to a second specialist .

Referring to a block diagram is presented of a second specialist implemented video conferencing apparatus configured for seamless customer transfer from one specialist to another specialist during an ongoing video conference communication session in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. As described in relation to video conferencing apparatus includes computing platform having a memory and a processor in communication with memory . In addition video conferencing apparatus includes a display a video camera a speaker and a microphone all of which are in communication with the processor and may be embodied in hardware and or software. The memory of video conferencing apparatus stores specialist video conferencing module that is configured to implement the display the video camera the speaker and the microphone to conduct a video conferencing communication session i.e. a video chat session with a customer that is located at the first video conferencing apparatus shown in . The specialist video conferencing module includes a customer transferring routine that is configured to provide the customer with seamless transfer between specialists during an ongoing video conferencing communication session .

In response to 1 receiving during an ongoing video conferencing communication session between a customer and a first specialist an indication of a need or a request to transfer the customer to another specialist i.e. one or more specialists such as second specialist or the like and 2 communicating customer information to the second specialist the customer transferring module routine is configured to provide a seamless transition mode during the ongoing video conferencing communication session that allows for simultaneous communication between the customer the first specialist and the second specialist during the period in which the first specialist hands off the video conferencing communication session to the second specialist i.e. the first specialist drops off of or departs from the video conferencing communication session .

The indication of a need to transfer may be an input provided by either the first specialist or the customer and may include the type of specialist requested. For example in a financial institution based video conferencing system a customer may be communicating with a mortgage home loans specialist and during the course of the communication the specialist or the customer may perceive a need for the customer to communicate with a different type of specialist e.g. a financial advisor wealth management advisor . The indication of the need to transfer may result in identifying the second specialist providing a listing of currently available second specialists from which the first specialist or customer may choose the appropriate second specialist or trigger queuing of the second specialist such that the next available second specialist of the type requested is the transferee specialist for the ongoing video conferencing communication session .

Communicating customer information to the second specialist prior to the seamless transition mode may be necessary to insure more efficiency during the transition mode . The second specialist can either review the customer information prior to joining the transition mode and or rely on the customer information during the transition mode and thereafter. In specific embodiments the customer information which may be historical customer information stored in the customer s profile and or may be dynamic information obtained by the first specialist during the ongoing video conferencing communication session may be communicated electronically or electronically accessible to the second specialist . In such embodiments as described in more detail in relation to in the event the second specialist is of a type that can only receive without explicit customer consent specific information related to the customer the customer transferring routine may include a rules engine to determine what specific information can be communicated to the second specialist absent the explicit customer consent. In alternate embodiments of the invention in which the first specialist places the customer on hold while contacting an appropriate second specialist the first specialist may in addition to or in lieu of electronic communication manually communicate the customer information to the second specialist .

Moreover the customer transferring routine is configured to seamlessly transfer the video conferencing communication session from 1 communication between first specialist and the customer to 2 to the transition mode which includes simultaneous communication between the first specialist the customer and the second specialist . In embodiments in which the media format is video simultaneous communication may include a dual screen display of two or more of the transition mode participants. For example the customer may be presented with a dual screen display of a live video stream of the first specialist and a live stream of the second specialist or live video streams of multiple second specialists if such is warranted while the first specialist is presented with dual screen display of a live video stream of the customer and a live video stream s of the other specialist s . The transition mode serves to create an environment for the first specialist to introduce the customer to the second specialist as well as a forum for the first specialist to communicate the context of the transfer or other customer related information to the second specialist in the presence of the customer .

Referring to a block diagram is presented of a second specialist implemented video conferencing apparatus configured for seamless customer transfer from one specialist to another specialist during an ongoing video conferencing communication session in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The video conferencing apparatus which may include more than one physical device or unit is operable to receive and execute modules routines and applications such as specialist video conferencing module and the subcomponent customer transferring routine and the like.

The video conferencing apparatus includes a computing platform that can receive and execute routines and applications. The computing platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further the computing platform also includes at least one processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer not shown in that interfaces with any resident programs such as video conferencing module and the subcomponent customer transferring routine and the like stored in the memory of video conferencing apparatus . Processor includes various processing subsystems not shown in embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of video conferencing apparatus and the operability of the apparatus on a network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. Additionally processing subsystems may include any portion of the functionality of video conferencing module obviating the need for such applications and modules to be stored in the memory.

As previously noted in relation to video conferencing apparatus includes display video camera image capturing device speaker and microphone which are all in communication with processor .

The memory of video conferencing apparatus stores specialist video conferencing module that is configured to implement the display the video camera the speaker and the microphone to conduct a video conferencing communication session i.e. a video chat session with a customer that is located at a video conferencing apparatus video conferencing apparatus of . The specialist video conferencing module includes a customer transferring routine that is configured to provide the customer with seamless transfer between specialists during an ongoing video conferencing communication session .

In specific embodiments the customer transferring routine is configured to receive during the ongoing video conferencing communication session between the customer and the first specialist an indication of a need to transfer the communication to a second specialist . It should be noted that a second specialist may include more than one specialist e.g. different types of specialties in those instances in which more than one specialist is needed or required by the customer. As previously noted the indication may comprise an input provided by either the first specialist or the customer and may include the type of specialist requested. In certain embodiments the customer transfer routine may be configured to allow the customer to initiate a transfer to another specialist of the same type in the event the customer is experiencing communication problems i.e. technical problems or the like with the first specialist or believes that they would be better serviced by another specialist. In other specific embodiments the first specialist through communications with the customer may perceive the need for a different type of specialist and in response to asking and confirming that the customer desires a transfer to another specialist at the conclusion of their discussions provides the request input indicating the need for the transfer.

As previously discussed in relation to the indication of the need to transfer may result in any one of a identifying the second specialist b providing a listing of currently available second specialist from which the first specialist or customer may choose the appropriate second specialist and or c trigger queuing of the second specialist such that the next available specialist of the type requested is the transferee second specialist for the ongoing video conferencing communication session . Queuing of the second specialist may insure that the second specialist is on hand waiting to join the transition mode when the customer and the first specialist are ready to move into the transition mode . In other embodiments of the invention the customer transferring routine may be configured to alert the first specialist and or customer when the second specialist has been identified and or when the second specialist is ready to enter the transition mode . Identification of the second specialist is necessary in order to subsequently communicate customer information to the second specialist prior to the transition mode .

In addition customer transferring routine may be configured to electronically communicate customer information to the second specialist prior to the seamless transition mode . Such communication of customer information prior to the transition mode may be necessary to insure more efficiency during the transition mode i.e. the first specialist or the customer does not have to communicate rudimentary information and or information communicated to the second specialist during the initial pre transition mode portion of the video conferencing communication session . In this regard the second specialist can either review the customer information prior to joining the transition mode and or rely on the customer information during the transition mode and thereafter. In specific embodiments the customer information may be historical customer information stored in the customer s profile and or may be dynamic information obtained by the first specialist during the ongoing video conferencing communication session .

The customer transferring routine may be configured to include customer information exchange rules engine that applies business rules to determine what customer information can and cannot be communicated to the second specialist absent consent from the customer . The business rules may be unique to different line of businesses or other entities within the business implementing the video conferencing system and may be based on the customer information that is accessible or obtained by the first specialist and or the type of the second specialist. For example in the financial institution business setting only certain information as designated by privacy laws and or the financial institution may be communicated to a financial advisor wealth management type specialist absent consent by the customer. In this regard the rules engine acts as a filter to ensure that only compliant customer information is communicated to the second specialist prior to the transition mode . In other embodiments of the invention the customer transferring routine may be configured to include a customer information exchange option which is presented to the customer in response to receiving an indication that a transfer is necessary and which based on customer input that acquiesces to the communication of the customer information results in the communication of the customer information to the second specialist . The customer information exchange option may include all necessary disclosures which need to be communicated to the customer for the purpose of effectuating the communication of the customer information to the second specialist . It should be noted that in certain instances all information pertaining to the customer i.e. historical profile information or information obtained during the video conferencing communication session may be communicated to the second specialist without subjecting the information to the rules engine or otherwise obtaining the customer s consent.

In alternate embodiments not shown in but described in detail in relation to the video conferencing module may include an electronic media format determination routine configured to determine the electronic media format for the communication between the second specialist and the customer based on business rules and or the media capabilities of the second specialist. In certain instances the second specialist may only be capable of communicating via voice and or text chat while in other instances the business for economic reasons or the like may prefer to implement voice only conferencing or text chat as opposed to video communication .

As previously noted in relation to the customer transferring routine is configured to seamlessly transfer the video conferencing communication session from 1 communication between first specialist and the customer to 2 the transition mode which includes simultaneous communication between the first specialist the customer and the second specialist . In embodiments in which the electronic media format is two way video conferencing simultaneous communication may include a dual screen simultaneous display of two or more of the transition mode participants. For example the customer may be presented with a dual screen display of a live video stream of the first specialist and a live stream of the second specialist or live video streams of multiple second specialists if such is warranted while the specialist is presented with dual screen display of a live video stream of the customer and a live video stream s of the other specialist s . The transition mode serves to create an environment for the first specialist to introduce the customer to the second specialist as well as a forum for the first specialist to communicate the context of the transfer or other customer related information to the second specialist in the presence of the customer .

Determining Electronic Media Format when Transferring a Customer Between Specialists or Amongst Communication Sources at a Customer Service Outlet

Referring to a block diagram is presented of an apparatus configured for determining electronic media format when seamlessly transferring transitioning a customer from one media based communication session to another media based communication session in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. Apparatus includes computing platform having a memory and a processor in communication with memory . In addition apparatus may in some embodiments include a display a video camera a speaker and a microphone all of which are in communication with the processor and may be embodied in hardware and or software. The memory of apparatus stores communication module that is configured to implement one or more of the display the video camera the speaker and the microphone to conduct a communication session i.e. a two way video conference session a one way video conference session an audio session a text chat session or the like with a customer . The communication module includes a customer transfer routine that is configured to provide the customer with seamless transfer between specialists and or communication sources during an ongoing communication session .

The customer transferring routine is configured to receive during an ongoing communication session a request to transfer the customer to another specialist and or another communication source platform or the like. The request to transfer may be an input provided by either the customer the specialist communicating with the customer or the application platform and may include the type of specialist and or platform application requested. For example in a financial institution based video conference system a customer may be communicating with a mortgage home loans specialist and during the course of the communication the specialist or the customer may perceive a need for the customer to communicate with a different type of specialist e.g. a financial advisor wealth management advisor . The request to transfer may result in identifying the second specialist providing a listing of currently available second specialists from which the first specialist or customer may choose or trigger queuing of the second specialist such that the next available second specialist of the type requested is the transferee specialist for the ongoing communication session .

In response to receiving the request to transfer the customer transferring routine is further configured to perform an electronic media format determination to determine an electronic media format to implement upon transfer e.g. for communication between the second specialist and the customer or in a self service capacity communication between an online network content presentation and the customer based on application of at least one business rule . The electronic media format may be two way video conference one way video conference customer receives video and audio feed and specialist only receives audio feed audio only conferencing text chat visual only media such as online network content application presentation or any other conceivable media format used for communication. It should be noted that determination of the electronic media format may be based on the capabilities of the second specialist and or the configuration of the online network content application presentation. For example in certain instances specialists of a certain type may only be configured to communicate via audio in which case if the requested specialist is of that type the media format is limited to audio only. In other examples if the requested business knowledge source is online network content or a presentation application the media format may be limited to a visual only presentation.

Moreover in specific embodiments in which the transfer of communication sessions is between specialists within a video conference communication session the customer transferring routine may be configured to seamlessly transfer the video conferencing communication session from 1 communication between first specialist and the customer to 2 to communication between the first specialist the customer and the second specialist implementing the determined electronic media format . In such embodiments seamless transfer may include simultaneous communication between the first specialist the customer and the second specialist . Thus for example if the determined electronic media format is audio conference only the second specialist may join an ongoing video conferencing communication session via audio only while the first specialist and the customer are communicating via video and once the first specialist hands off the session to the second specialist the remainder of the communication session concludes in audio only conference communication. In the same regard if the determined electronic media format is text chat the second specialist may join the communication session via text chat while the first specialist and the customer are communicating via video. The portion of simultaneous communication allows for the first specialist to instruct the customer as to how to conduct the text chat if need be. Once the first specialist hands off the session to the second specialist the remainder of the communication session concludes in text chat only communication.

Referring to a block diagram is presented of an apparatus configured for determining media format when seamlessly transferring a customer amongst business knowledge sources specialists and or communication sources at a customer service outlet in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The apparatus which may include more than one physical device or unit is operable to receive and execute modules routines and applications such as communication module and the subcomponent customer transferring routine and the like.

The apparatus includes a computing platform that can receive and execute routines and applications. The computing platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further the computing platform also includes at least one processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer not shown in that interfaces with any resident programs such as communication module and the subcomponent customer transferring routine and the like stored in the memory of apparatus . Processor includes various processing subsystems not shown in embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of apparatus and the operability of the apparatus on a network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. Additionally processing subsystems may include any portion of the functionality of communication module obviating the need for such applications and modules to be stored in the memory.

As previously noted in relation to apparatus includes one or more of display video camera image capturing device speaker and microphone which are all in communication with processor .

The memory of apparatus stores communication module that is configured to implement at least one of the display the video camera the speaker and the microphone to conduct a communication session e.g. a video chat session or the like with a customer that is located at a communication source e.g. video conference apparatus of . The communication module includes a customer transferring routine that is configured to provide the customer with seamless transfer between specialists during an ongoing communication session .

In specific embodiments the customer transferring routine is configured to receive during the ongoing communication session between the customer and the first specialist a request to transfer the communication to a second specialist . It should be noted that a second specialist may include more than one specialist e.g. different types of specialties for each specialist in those instances in which more than one specialist is needed or required by the customer. As previously noted the request may comprise an input provided by either the first specialist or the customer and may include the type of specialist requested. In certain embodiments the customer transfer routine may be configured to allow the customer to initiate a transfer to another specialist of the same type in the event the customer is experiencing communication problems e.g. technical problems with the first specialist or believes that they would be better serviced by another specialist. In other specific embodiments the first specialist through communications with the customer may perceive the need for a different type of specialist and in response to asking and confirming that the customer desires a transfer to another specialist at the conclusion of their discussions provides the request input indicating the need for the transfer.

As previously discussed in relation to the request to transfer may result in any one of a identifying the second specialist b providing a listing of available second specialists from which the first specialist or customer may choose the appropriate second specialist and or c trigger queuing of the second specialist such that the next available specialist of the type requested is the transferee second specialist for the ongoing communication session . Queuing of the second specialist may insure that the second specialist is on hand waiting to join the transfer transition mode when the customer and the first specialist are ready to move into the transition mode . In other embodiments of the invention the customer transferring routine may be configured to alert the first specialist and or customer when the second specialist has been identified and or when the second specialist is ready to move to the seamless transfer mode of communication. Identification of the second specialist may be necessary in those embodiments of the invention that require communication of customer information to the second specialist prior to the seamless transfer .

In response to receiving the request to transfer the customer transferring routine is further configured to determine an electronic media format to implement upon transfer i.e. for communication between the second specialist and the customer based on application on at least one business rule . The electronic media format may be two way video conferencing one way video conferencing audio only conferencing text chat or any other conceivable media format used for communication. The business rule may be based on customer status such that a customer having a preferred i.e. elevated status may be provided video format while a customer of a standard non preferred status may be provided a lesser media format such as audio only or text chat. In additional embodiments of the invention the business rule may be based on customer profile information . For example the customer profile information may indicate which media format the customer prefers or may provide information about an attribute that is paramount to media format determination i.e. the customer has a preferred language or the customer has a disability such as hearing impaired or the like . In other embodiments of the invention the business rule may be based on historical interactions transactions conducted with the customer. For example the historical interactions may indicate difficulty interacting with the customer or difficulty pleasing the customer in such instances the video format may be preferred to insure that the customer of provided the utmost attention and care.

In other embodiments of the invention the business rule applied to determine the media format may be based on the reason for the transfer type second specialist . For example if the transfer is because the customer is unsatisfied with the current specialist or desires another specialist the media format may be video to insure proper attention and care is given to the customer. In other embodiments in which certain types of specialists e.g. certain lines of business or the like may be limited to communication via certain types of media the type of the second specialist may dictate the determined media format.

In still further embodiments of the invention the business rule applied to determine the media format may be based on the shortest queue time . In certain instances in which the customer may be unwilling to wait for certain type of media format the media format with the shortest wait time i.e. queue may be chosen or the queue time may be one factor in determining the media format. In other embodiments of the invention the business rule applied to determine the media format may be based on media format availability . For example network disruptions or the like may result in certain media formats being currently unavailable in which cases other media formats may be determined to accommodate the need for a timely transfer.

In alternate embodiments not shown in but which are described in detail in relation to the communication module may include a customer information exchange rules engine that applies one or more business rules to information related to the customer to determine what information is suitable to communicate to the second specialist prior to seamlessly transferring the communication session to the second specialist.

As noted in relation to the customer transferring routine is configured to seamlessly transfer the communication session from 1 communication between first specialist and the customer to 2 to communication between the first specialist the customer and the second specialist implementing the determined media format . In such embodiments seamless transfer may include simultaneous communication between the first specialist the customer and the second specialist . Thus for example if the determined media format is audio only the second specialist will join the communication session via audio only while the first specialist and the customer are communicating via video and once the first specialist hands off the session to second specialist the remainder of the communication session concludes in audio only communication. In the same regard if the determined media format is text chat the second specialist will join the communication session via text chat while the first specialist and the customer are communicating via video.

Referring to a flow diagram is presented of a method for seamless customer transfer from one specialist to another specialist during an ongoing video conference communication session in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. At Event in response to receiving during a video conference communication session conducted between a customer and a first specialist an indication or request that the customer requires communication with a second specialist electronically communicating to the second specialist customer information e.g. customer profile information and or information obtained from the customer during the current communication session . In specific embodiments the indication that the customer requires communication may provide for receipt of an input from either the first specialist or the customer that is configured to request the transfer communication with the second specialist . In such embodiments the input which may include the type of second specialist requested may be configured to identify the second specialist present a listing of second specialists currently available and or place the customer in a queue for the second specialist.

In other specific embodiments of the method communicating the customer information may include implementing a customer information exchange rules engine to determine what information can be passed along to the second specialist absent customer consent. In other specific embodiments of the method communicating the customer information may include providing the customer an information exchange option that allows the customer to consent to information exchange to the second specialist.

At Event the video conference communication session is transitioned from communication between the customer and the first specialist to a transition mode that allows the first specialist the second specialist and the customer to communicate simultaneously prior to the first specialist handing off the communication session to the second specialist. In specific embodiments of the method such transitioning includes presenting a dual screen display to the customer first specialist and second specialist that includes live video streams of the first specialist the second specialist and the customer such that during the transition mode the customer views live video streams of the first and second specialists and the first and second specialists view live video streams of the customer and the other specialist.

Referring to a flow diagram is presented of a method for determining media format for customer transfer from one specialist to another specialist during an ongoing communication session in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. At Event during a media based communication session conducted between a customer and a first specialist a request is received to transfer a customer from a first specialist to a second specialist. In specific embodiments the request is an input from either the first specialist or the customer that is configured to request the transfer communication with the second specialist . In such embodiments the input which may include the type of second specialist requested may be configured to identify the second specialist present a listing of second specialists currently available and or place the customer in a queue for the second specialist.

At Event in response to receiving the request a media format is determined which will be implemented for communication between the second specialist and the customer during the ongoing communication session. The determination of the media format is based on application of one or more business rules. The business rules may be based on the status of the customer at the business customer profile preferences information or customer information obtained during the current communication session. Moreover the business rules may be based on historical interactions with the customer the reason for the transfer and or the type of second specialist requested. In additional embodiments of the invention the business rules may take into account the shortest queue wait time for a media format or the current availability of a media format.

At Event the communication session is seamlessly transitioned from communication between the customer and the first specialist to a transition mode that allows the first specialist the second specialist and the customer to communicate simultaneously prior to the first specialist handing off the communication session to the second specialist. In specific embodiments of the method in which the determined media format is video such transitioning includes presenting a dual screen display to the customer first specialist and second specialist that includes live video streams of the first specialist second specialist and customer such that during the transition mode the customer views live video streams of the first and second specialists and the first and second specialists view live video streams of the customer and the other specialist. In other embodiments of the invention the simultaneous communication may provide for the first specialist and customer to continue communicating in video format while the customer and in some embodiments the first specialist communicate with the second specialist in the determined media format.

According to further embodiments of the invention described herein various systems apparatus methods and computer program products are herein described for providing automated local assistance to customer currently using a video conference system. A request for assistance can be made during an ongoing video conference communication session by either the customer or the specialist. The request is configured to define the purpose of the request. The request is received by a customer assistance reply module that determines an entity responsible for replying to the request based on the purpose of the request and notifies the entity. For example if the purpose of the request is for a notary a notary is identified and is notified. However if the request is for materials e.g. paper and pens to be brought into the video conferencing area room a generic associate customer service representative is identified and notified. In further embodiments of the invention the customer assistance reply module is configured to implement an entity assistance queue which places the request in the queue such that a next in time available associate customer service representative is assigned to the assistance request. The entity associate assigned to reply to the request may be notified of such via an alert that states the purpose of the request and may provide the location of the private setting where the video conference is occurring.

In this regard by providing automated assistance during an ongoing video conference neither the customer nor the specialist needs to perform further actions to obtain the requested assistance. For example the specialist does not have to place the customer on hold and contact the business location nor does the customer need to depart the video conference location and seek out assistance within the business location. As a result no interruption of the video conference occurs and the assistance appears at the video conference location with minimal to no intervention on behalf of the video conference participants.

Referring to a combination schematic and block diagram is presented of a system for providing automated customer assistance during an ongoing video conference at a customer service outlet such as a banking center in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The system includes a first or customer implemented video conferencing apparatus that is located within a private setting in a business location such that the customer can communicate and exchange private information with remote specialists. In one specific example the first video conferencing apparatus may be located within an enclosed office space at a financial institution such as a banking center. The customer implemented video conferencing apparatus includes a computing platform having a memory and a processor in communication with memory . In addition video conferencing apparatus includes a display a video camera a speaker and a microphone all of which are in communication with the processor and may be embodied in hardware and or software. The memory of video conferencing apparatus stores customer video conferencing module that is configured to implement the display the video camera the speaker and the microphone to conduct a video conference communication session i.e. a video chat session with a specialist that is located physically remote from the business location at which the video conferencing apparatus is located. The customer video conferencing module includes customer assistance request routine that is configured to allow the customer to request local assistance during an ongoing video conference. Local assistance provides for entity within the business location to be notified of the assistance request and appear at the private setting during the video conference to provide the requested assistance.

The customer implemented video conferencing apparatus is in network communication wired wireless or a combination thereof with a second or specialist implemented video conferencing apparatus . Video conferencing apparatus may be any communication device that facilitates audio and video communication such as personal computer PC laptop computer mobile computing device e.g. tablet device mobile cellular telephone or the like. The specialist implemented video conferencing apparatus includes a computing platform having a memory and a processor in communication with memory . In addition video conferencing apparatus includes a display a video camera a speaker and a microphone all of which are in communication with the processor and may be embodied in hardware and or software. The memory of video conferencing apparatus stores specialist video conferencing module that is configured to implement the display the video camera the speaker and the microphone to conduct a video communication session i.e. a video chat session with the customer that is located at the first video conference apparatus . The specialist video conferencing module includes customer assistance request routine that is configured to allow the specialist to request local assistance for the customer during an ongoing video conference such that an entity within the business location is notified of the assistance request and appears at the private setting during the video conference to provide the requested assistance to the customer.

Referring to a dual block diagram is presented of a video conferencing apparatus configured for requesting local assistance during an ongoing video conference and an on site computing apparatus configured to receive the local assistance request and identify the entity on site for responding to the request in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. As described in relation to video conferencing apparatus includes computing platform having a memory and a processor in communication with memory . The memory may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk. The processor may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer not shown in that interfaces with any resident programs such as video conferencing module and the subcomponent customer transferring routine and the like stored in the memory of video conferencing apparatus . Processor includes various processing subsystems not shown in embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of video conferencing apparatus and the operability of the apparatus on a network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. Additionally processing subsystems may include any portion of the functionality of video conferencing module obviating the need for such applications and modules to be stored in the memory. In addition video conferencing apparatus includes a display a video camera a speaker and a microphone all of which are not shown in and are in communication with the processor and may be embodied in hardware and or software.

The memory of video conferencing apparatus stores video conferencing module that is configured to implement the display the video camera the speaker and the microphone to conduct a video conferencing communication session i.e. a video chat session between a customer that is located at a private setting within a business location and a specialist located remote from the business location.

The video conference module includes customer assistance request routine that is configured to receive an assistance request input from the customer or the specialist during an ongoing video conference communication session . In specific embodiments the user interface that displays the video feed of the customer to the specialist or specialist to the customer may include an activatable key for requesting local assistance. Additionally as shown in the assistance request may include the specified purpose for the assistance. In those embodiments that utilize the activatable key for requesting local assistance activation of the key may provide for display of a dialog box or the like for the customer specialist to input the specified purpose or activation of the key may provide for display of specific purpose options from which the customer or specialist may choose a specified purpose .

The on site computing apparatus includes computing platform having a memory and at least one processor in communication with the memory. The memory of on site computing apparatus includes customer assistance reply module that is configured to receive the assistance request input inputted by the customer or the specialist and identify an entity on site i.e. within the business location for responding to the assistance request.

Referring to a block diagram is presented of an onsite computing apparatus configured for receiving assistance requests from customers and specialists during ongoing video conferences identifying entities for responding to the requests and notifying the identified entities in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The apparatus which may include more than one physical device or unit may be physically located at the business location or may be in networked communication with the business location and is operable to receive and execute modules routines and applications such as customer assistance reply module and the subcomponent entity notification routine and the like.

The apparatus includes a computing platform that can receive and execute routines and applications. The computing platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further the computing platform also includes at least one processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer not shown in that interfaces with any resident programs such as customer assistance reply module and the subcomponent entity notification routine and the like stored in the memory of apparatus . Processor includes various processing subsystems not shown in embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of apparatus and the operability of the apparatus on a network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. Additionally processing subsystems may include any portion of the functionality of customer assistance reply module obviating the need for such applications and modules to be stored in the memory.

The memory of apparatus stores customer assistance reply module that is configured to receive the assistance request input inputted by the customer or the specialist and identify the entity responsible for responding to the request based on the specified purpose included within the assistance request input . For example if the assistance request is a general request with no specified purpose or specified purpose is associate customer service representative generic i.e. a request for printed materials documents supplies or the like the module will realize that any available associate customer service representative may be the entity for responding to the request . In other embodiments the specified purpose may be for a specific function such as a notary which only certain specific associates customer service representatives may qualify to perform the function.

In other embodiments of the invention the customer assistance reply module may implement an entity availability queue which places the assistance request in the queue such that the next in time available associate customer service representatives is identified or otherwise assigned as the responsible entity for replying to the assistance request. In those embodiments of the invention in which the assistance requests includes a specified purpose the entity availability queue may be specific to the specified purpose e.g. a notary queue or the like such that the next in time available associate customer service representatives that meets the specified purpose is identified or otherwise assigned as the responsible entity for replying to the assistance request. In other embodiments of the invention associate s customer service representative s workload business is taken into account in identifying which associate customer service representative to assign to an assistance request. For example if the assistance request may result in further business as determined by the specified purpose the associate customer service representative assigned to provide the assistance may be an associate customer service representative with minimal business over a predetermined time period e.g. day week month or the like .

The customer assistance reply module may further include an entity notification routine that is configured to notify the entity identify as responsible for responding to the assistance request. In this regard the entity notification routine may be configured to generate and initiate electronic communication of an alert that notifies an associate customer service representative of the need to respond and may include the specified purpose of the assistance request customer identity and other relative customer information e.g. as obtained from a customer profile inputted by the specialist or customer with the request or the like . In addition the alert may include the location of the video conference in the event the location provides for more than one video conference location. The alert may take the form of an Instant Message IM displayed on a work station of the associate customer service representative a text message to a mobile communication device a voice message to a mobile communication device or the like. Moreover the entity notification routine may be configured such that if the entity identified as responsible for responding to the assistance request does not acknowledge the alert acquiescing in respond to the assistance request within a predetermined period of time the customer assistance reply module will identify a next available associate customer service representative for responding to the assistance request and generate and initiate communication of an alert to the next available associate customer service representative.

Referring to a flow diagram is presented of a method for providing local assistance to a customer during an ongoing video conference in accordance with embodiments of the present invention At Event an assistance request input is received during a remote video conference session conducted between a customer located in a private setting of a business location and a specialist located remote from the business location. The assistance request input which may be inputted by the customer or the specialist is configured to request assistance from within the business location. The assistance request input may also include the specific purpose of the assistance request. For example the specific purpose may be a general request for assistance from an associate customer service representative or the specific purpose may be requesting another type of specialist specific function e.g. notary specific supplies materials or the like.

At Event in response to processing the assistance request input an entity is identified within the business location for responding to the assistance request. The entity may be an employee associate of the business or a tangible item such as computing devices office supplies or the like. The identified entity or someone in possession of the identified entity responds to the request by entering the private setting where the video conference is occurring. The entity may be identified based on the specified purpose of the request or the entity may be identified based on availability and or business activity. In specific embodiments an associate availability queue may be implemented to identify the next in time available associate that can respond to the assistance request. Moreover the associate availability queue may be specific to the specified purpose of the request e.g. only associated that have the requisite skill to perform the specified purpose of the request are placed in the queue .

In optional embodiments of the method at Event an alert is generated and communicated to the identified entity which serves to notify the entity associate of the need to respond to the assistance request. The alert may further include the identity of the customer other relative information associated with the customer the specific purpose of the request and the location of the private setting where the video conference is occurring.

Thus systems apparatus methods and computer program products described above provide for determining the electronic media format for transferring a customer between specialists and or amongst different communication sources i.e. applications or devices mechanisms within a customer service outlet such as a banking center or the like. For example while a two way video conference system may be used for communication between a customer and a remote specialist in certain instances in which the customer requires transfer to another specialist e.g. a specialist having a different specialty other media formats such as one way live video conference live audio only conference text chat or the like may be implemented. Alternatively in other instances in which the customer requires transition to a self service application e.g. an application that does not require live interaction with an associate specialist other media formats such as pre recorded video or audio online network content presentations may suffice which may dictate a transfer in communication sources i.e. transferring to an onsite tablet device PC or the like . The need to determine a change in electronic media format upon transferring transitioning between business knowledge sources may be based on media format availability and may take into account business rules that are based on cost effectiveness and the like. The business rules may take into account various factors such as but not limited to the reason for the transfer e.g. the type of specialist the type of application required the status of the customer the profile preferences of the customer the historical interactions with the customer and the like. Additionally other factors may influence the determination of the electronic media format for example the predicted duration of the transferred communication the capabilities of the specialist or application the current queue times and the like.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible.

Those skilled in the art may appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

