---

title: Identifying recorded call data segments of interest
abstract: A method and apparatus of processing a voice call are disclosed. One example method of operation may include recording at least a portion of a conference call and storing the portion of the conference call in memory. The method may also include processing the portion of the conference call to identify at least one segment of interest and processing the at least one segment of interest and creating at least one tag of interest to be associated with a third party application. The method may also include forwarding the at least one tag of interest to a third party computing device responsive to the identified segment of interest.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09571620&OS=09571620&RS=09571620
owner: West Corporation
number: 09571620
owner_city: Omaha
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160412
---
This application is a continuation from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 628 612 filed Sep. 27 2012 entitled IDENTIFYING RECORDED CALL DATA SEGMENTS OF INTEREST which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This invention relates to recording call data and retrieving the recorded call data at a later time and more particularly providing the recorded call data to new call participants based on predetermined criteria.

Conventionally customer service phone calls conference calls and other business related types of calls typically include more than one party participating during the call. In many instances a third fourth or even additional participants may join the call after a certain amount of time has elapsed. As a result not every party to the call has been present since the beginning of the call. In turn this call participant absenteeism naturally causes certain portions of the call to be missed by those parties who join an active call after a portion of the call has progressed.

One embodiment of the present invention may include a method that includes recording at least a portion of a conference call. The method may also include storing the portion of the conference call in memory processing the portion of the conference call to identify at least one segment of interest and processing the at least one segment of interest and creating at least one tag of interest to be associated with a third party application. The method may further include forwarding the at least one tag of interest to a third party computing device responsive to the identified segment of interest.

Another example embodiment of the present invention may include an apparatus that includes a memory configured to store at least a portion of a recorded conference call. The apparatus may also include a processor configured to process the portion of the conference call to identify at least one segment of interest and process the at least one segment of interest and creating at least one tag of interest to be associated with a third party application. The apparatus may also include a transmitter configured to transmit the at least one tag of interest to a third party computing device responsive to the identified segment of interest.

It will be readily understood that the components of the present invention as generally described and illustrated in the figures herein may be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus the following detailed description of the embodiments of a method apparatus and system as represented in the attached figures is not intended to limit the scope of the invention as claimed but is merely representative of selected embodiments of the invention.

The features structures or characteristics of the invention described throughout this specification may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. For example the usage of the phrases example embodiments some embodiments or other similar language throughout this specification refers to the fact that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment may be included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases example embodiments in some embodiments in other embodiments or other similar language throughout this specification do not necessarily all refer to the same group of embodiments and the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

In addition while the term message has been used in the description of embodiments of the present invention the invention may be applied to many types of network data such as packet frame datagram etc. For purposes of this invention the term message also includes packet frame datagram and any equivalents thereof. Furthermore while certain types of messages and signaling are depicted in exemplary embodiments of the invention the invention is not limited to a certain type of message and the invention is not limited to a certain type of signaling.

Example embodiments of the present invention provide a call recording function that permits new call participants who have recently joined a call to be informed about the events that happened during the call and prior to the new call participants being added to the current call. One example scenario according to example embodiments may be a customer service call that is conducted between a paying customer experiencing technical difficulties and a call center representative see . Another example scenario according to example embodiments may include a conference call managed by a leader who is determining whether to record the conference call in conference and or record an audio segment out of conference to be played to conference participants see .

While the call is being recorded each second or periodic time unit of measurement call segment Tc may be used as a time reference or timestamp for the call to provide indications of the call progress over time. The customer service representative will assist the customer over the phone by providing detailed instructions for fixing the problem i.e. computer problems cable television box problems Internet modem problems etc. . However at some point the customer service representative may have reached his or her capacity regarding knowledge in general about the outstanding problems being experienced by the customer . As a result the representative may need to forward the call to a customer service supervisor phone operated by a customer service supervisor who can offer additional assistance.

Unfortunately up until this point in the call i.e. 1 minute 3 minutes 10 minutes etc. the supervisor may not have heard the details regarding the present problem being experienced by the customer. Therefore this supervisor may need to ask questions in an effort to understand the problem. The supervisor may be a new call participant who would benefit from certain portions of the call being automatically repeated since the supervisor has not heard the previous portions of the call.

The supervisor may elect to hear certain portions of the call that were recorded and stored in memory at the database . The supervisor may request and or automatically receive the call recorded segments at his or her phone . The call recorded segments may include a first 15 seconds of the call and the last 15 seconds of the call. The time frame of the recorded segments Tc provided to the supervisor may be shorter or longer depending on how the automated call segment retrieval process is setup. The specified portions of the call may be requested and the retrieved portions of the call may be provided to the supervisor prior to the supervisor receiving the call transfer or contemporaneous with the call transfer.

According to example embodiments of the present invention the supervisor may be able to quickly retrieve recorded portions of the call and listen to them prior to answering the phone during a call transfer operation. Various segments or portions of the call may be referenced to save time when attempting to share the purpose of the call with the recently added call participant.

According to another example embodiment a parsing engine may be configured to parse certain keywords and their corresponding buffer areas i.e. or 10 seconds before and after the keyword is identified in the audio segment . The parsing engine may be operating on a computer or server operated by the new call participant s computing device i.e. computer smartphone tablet computing device etc. or via the call database . The parser engine may be configured to parse keywords such as important or problem that are spoken during the call. The customer service representative may be trained to speak those words during the call to provide a parse marker for the parsing engine at a later time. The parser may seek to discover multiple instances of the same word within a predefined time frame. For example the customer service representative may reiterate a known keyword to help the parser identify a key segment of audio in an otherwise long call. For instance the customer service representative may begin the call by identifying the problem experienced by the caller. Dialogue may be spoken by the representative such as so you re having a problem with your cable modem . . . that is the problem you re having correct The caller may agree Yes and the call has now introduced verbal markers that may be parsed at a later time by the parsing engine not shown which may be part of the call recording database functionality.

According to another example embodiment illustrates a flow diagram of a conference call recording operation according to example embodiments. Conference calls can be interrupted by new users joining or leaving an active call. As a result there may be numerous updates being given to bring the new participants up to speed with the current situation. Present call participants may find this to be disruptive and annoying. In turn time is wasted in the present by trying to discuss the past discussions during a live call.

A group leader or conference call manager may initiate a recording operation either in conference or out of conference . For example by recording the In Conference or Out of Conference audio that new users could choose to hear prior to joining a call the call data may be identified recorded and saved for additional processing operations. Referring to the flow diagram provides that the conference call leader may initiate an in conference recording operation by pressing a predefined number via a dual tone modulation frequency DTMF interface i.e. at operation . As a result an announcement may be made to the conference members that a recording is about to take place at operation . The recording may begin by performing a recording determination at operation . The leader may stop the recording at any time by pressing another number combination 8 at operation . A determination may be made as to whether the recording is now off at operation . Next a message or flag may be used to mark the data message to indicate that the message should be saved in memory at operation . The message may include an audio segment identified by timestamps that indicate before during and after the segment has ended. The audio segments may also be recorded autonomously by having a keyword identified as spoken by a leader or conference call moderator. An audio recording operation may also be invoked after a predetermined time has lapsed. For example the leader may configure a recording to begin after five minutes has lapsed and knowingly not discuss important issues until such a time so as to be recorded. Also the leader may speak a trigger word that when spoken is identified by a voice recognition module that triggers a recording operation i.e. important .

In operation when a conference call participant joins the call they can hear the most recent update by selecting a numerical option. This audio segment would be played prior to that participant joining the call to ensure they are brought up to speed with the conference call progress especially what was missed prior to the participant joining the call. The call participant would also be able to press a key sequence while on the call to hear the most recently recorded update s audio sequences. For those call participants that are already on the bridge desiring an update the call recording application system may listen or detect a brief period of silence to automatically begin playing the audio segment update data.

According to another example embodiment a leader may store a snippet of voice in an easy on demand playback storage location. In one example for network troubleshooting bridges 12 could provide the latest known root cause and course of corrective action along with an estimated time ET to fix the problem. For a seminar series or a training call 12 would provide the name and title of the main speaker. For FEMA type emergency calls 12 would provide the latest weather hurricane update or status of a missing child.

According to one example embodiment of the present invention a customer call may be received at a customer service call processing center via a call representative and a corresponding phone that is operated by the call representative . In operation the call is received processed and forwarded to a call representative. Once a menu option is selected by the caller or a caller elects to receive technical support help from a technician the call may be transferred to the technician. A similar procedure may take place by having a frustrated customer receive help from a leader or manager who provides additional support. In this example the technician who was the second call participant and or the leader who was the third call participant may need to listen to portions of the recorded call while the call is still in progress and while the customer is on hold prior to assisting the customer for increased efficiency.

A call segment parsing module may parse the extracted important or problem noted segments noted by time i.e. time initial Ti time important as designated by an important word that was parsed Tm time of a problem as designated by a problem word that was parsed Tp etc. of the previously recorded segments of the call and offer those segments to the transferred party supervisor before forwarding and connecting the call to the supervisor and transferring away the call from the customer support specialist technician etc. who offered the previous call support.

The parsing module may parse the segments of the call that are deemed important for a preview and or a shortened review e.g. most important 30 seconds keyword parsed segments etc. . The parsing module may access a list of keywords noted in a data file i.e. comma separated values CSV file or similar data file . The keywords may be compared to a voice transcription that was processed from a natural language processor from voice to text. The segments of the transcription that contain the data file keywords may be identified and a predetermined number of words both before and after the identified keywords e.g. 10 words 20 words 30 words etc. may be identified as part of the key audio segments to be marked stored and retrieved at a later time. The processed and or parsed segments may be stored back in the call segment recordings by the call segment storage module and retrieved and forwarded to the next call participant.

According to one example embodiment of the present invention the call audio processing system may record at least a portion of a voice call and store the voice call in the call segment recordings database . The call segment s may be a portion of an ongoing call that was recorded due to an identified segment of interest. The portions of the voice call i.e. segments may be retrieved via the retrieval module and identified via a processing operation performed by the call segment parsing module that seeks to locate at least one segment of interest based on predetermined criteria. The identified segments of interest may be transmitted to a new call party responsive to a call transfer action performed by one or more of the original call parties. For example the customer may be transferred to a first call representative to a new call representative i.e. technician that can better assist their needs.

The call segment parsing module may identify a segment of interest that is based on one or more keywords spoken during the voice call. The segment of interest may also be based on at least one of a first portion of the voice call and a last portion of the voice call which are both sub portions of the original portion of the voice call that has been conducted. Other operations performed by the call processing system may include retrieving a data file which includes a plurality of keywords of interest via the retrieval module and transcribing the voice call from digital audio to a text file via the parsing module which also compares the data file to the text file and parses at least one keyword and its neighboring words from the text file and designates the parsed words as the segment of interest. The neighboring words may be set to a default number of 5 10 20 etc. to ensure the keywords of interest are identified properly and are shared with the relevant conversation context to assist the listener with understanding the context of the recorded conversation. A recipient of the voice data may be able to invoke his or her own preferences for receiving the keywords of interest and their respective number of neighboring words.

The transmitting or forwarding of the segment of interest to a new party i.e. technician manager etc. responsive to a call transfer action may include forwarding the one or more segments of interest to a new call party of the voice call different from any original call parties prior to connecting any of the original call parties with the new call party. Additionally the forwarding action may invoke the forwarding of an option to the new call party to accept or reject the segment of interest prior to connecting any of the original call parties with the new call party. This allows the new call participant to decide whether they want to hear portions of the recorded call or not prior to addressing the customer s needs. The option may be presented as a voice option and dial keypad option i.e. press 1 to accept the pre recorded audio or via a user interface window option i.e. select yes or no . The segments of interest may only be forwarded to the new call party if predetermined preferences of the new call party allow the segment of interest to be received by the new call party such as the new party is setup to automatically receive the segments of interest the new party is not setup to receive the segments of interest etc. The setup options may be unique to a particular network user identified by a name and or workstation or phone identification.

According to another example embodiment of the present invention a call may be established between two or more users of a conference call system. The conference call may be ongoing and certain portions of the call may be recorded and deemed important and or unimportant for subsequent attendees or post publication purposes. For example while processing a recorded portion of the conference call to identify at least one segment of interest via the parsing module i.e. parsing keywords spoken during the call parsing initial discussion segments parsing ending discussion segments etc. at least one tag of interest may be created to be associated with a third party application. For example the tag may be a descriptor pointer and or other code segment that links the audio segment of interest to a transcribed and or voice version of the conference call that is likely to be of interest to other individuals accessing the conference call via a third party application. For example users who subscribe to a RSS feed a social networking website SMS services or another third party application may be configured to receive updates or snippets of an ongoing conference call based on what was identified as being important and in turn shared with the third party applications.

Once the tag s of interest are created the tag may be forwarded to a third party computing device responsive to the identified segment of interest. The tag may then be received and published as a SMS message a blog entry on a social networking site etc. so others may receive updates if they are subscribed to receive such information. For example if a company CEO is in attendance at a conference call and certain keywords are spoken such as estimate revenue projections the segment of audio may then be recorded parsed and published by a tag association that was created and paired with the segment of interest. As a result the blog entry on a corresponding social networking site may indicate a dollar amount that corresponds to the CEO s statements regarding revenue or other relevant keywords.

The tag of interest may be an instant message IM a short message service SMS message an e mail and a rich site summary RSS feed etc. A data file may be used to identify certain keywords of interest which are retrieved from the database via the call segment retrieval module . The data file keywords may be used as a basis for comparison to the transcribed text version of the voice call. The data file includes words of interest designated by one or more of the plurality of intended conference call participants. For example certain conference call participants or intended participants may submit keywords to a master list each of which may be parsed against a transcribed text version of an active conference call. The keywords may have specific tag designations or may be part of a pool of different tags i.e. RSS feed tag requests SMS tag requests social network website tag requests etc. needed to satisfy the requests of the conference call recipients. The tag s of interest may be a summary of neighboring words spoken when the at least one word of interest was spoken during the conference call. For example ten words spoken both before and after a keyword is spoken may be included as part of the tagged subject matter to be shared with the third party application.

According to another example embodiment of the present invention the system of may record a portion of a conference call and store the portion of the conference call in memory to be processed to identify at least one segment of interest. The identified segment s of interest may be added to an existing work order associated with a third party application via the parsing module . For example a network administrator or other support personnel may be operating an active ticket or work order to satisfy an ongoing customer complaint. An active conference call may include words spoken that identify or relate to an ongoing or open ticket. For example during the course of a conference call a participant may comment that the network is slow and the performance of the call functions are not operating properly. Another call participant may offer to page a network administrator to join the all and identify the current problem. The network administrator may then be paged and a ticket may be invoked as a new ticket or updated as an outstanding ticket. The spoken problem slow network may be identified as part of the transcription which is then parsed as a segment of interest and added to the work order or ticket via the parsing module . The segment s of interest may be transmitted to a third party computing device via the call segment stored module operated by the network administrator responsive to the identified segment of interest.

The existing work order may be a known customer complaint ticket that includes at least one description identifying the customer complaint. For example the customer complaint may be a ticket that has metadata or descriptors e.g. computer network bandwidth etc. that identify the type of problem being experienced. The transcribed conference call segment may be compared and matched as at least one word included in the segment of interest to at least one word used to identify the known customer complaint. The word used to identify the known customer complaint may be included in a summary field of the known customer complaint. Forwarding the segment of interest to the third party computing device may include transferring an update message to a technician s computing device that includes at least a portion of the segment of interest which may be based on one or more keywords spoken during the conference call. The segment of interest is based on at least one of a first portion of the conference call and a last portion of the conference call where both the first portion of the conference call and the last portion of the conference call are sub portions of the portion of the conference call.

The operations of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a computer program executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A computer program may be embodied on a computer readable medium such as a storage medium. For example a computer program may reside in random access memory RAM flash memory read only memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM registers hard disk a removable disk a compact disk read only memory CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art.

An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor may read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components. For example illustrates an example network element which may represent any of the above described network components of the other figures.

As illustrated in a memory and a processor may be discrete components of the network entity that are used to execute an application or set of operations. The application may be coded in software in a computer language understood by the processor and stored in a computer readable medium such as the memory . Furthermore a software module may be another discrete entity that is part of the network entity and which contains software instructions that may be executed by the processor . In addition to the above noted components of the network entity the network entity may also have a transmitter and receiver pair configured to receive and transmit communication signals not shown .

Although an exemplary embodiment of the system method and non transitory computer readable medium of the present application has been illustrated in the accompanied drawings and described in the foregoing detailed description it will be understood that the present invention is not limited to the embodiments disclosed but is capable of numerous rearrangements modifications and substitutions without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as set forth and defined by the following claims. For example the capabilities of the system illustrated in may be performed by one or more of the modules or components described herein or in a distributed architecture. For example all or part of the functionality performed by the individual modules may be performed by one or more of these modules. Further the functionality described herein may be performed at various times and in relation to various events internal or external to the modules or components. Also the information sent between various modules can be sent between the modules via at least one of a data network the Internet a voice network an Internet Protocol network a wireless device a wired device and or via plurality of protocols. Also the messages sent or received by any of the modules may be sent or received directly and or via one or more of the other modules.

While preferred embodiments of the present invention have been described it is to be understood that the embodiments described are illustrative only and the scope of the invention is to be defined solely by the appended claims when considered with a full range of equivalents and modifications e.g. protocols hardware devices software platforms etc. thereto.

