---

title: Low voltage transistor and logic devices with multiple, stacked piezoelectronic layers
abstract: A piezoelectronic transistor device includes a first piezoelectric (PE) layer, a second PE layer, and a piezoresistive (PR) layer arranged in a stacked configuration, wherein an electrical resistance of the PR layer is dependent upon an applied voltage across the first and second PE layers by an applied pressure to the PR layer by the first and second PE layers. A piezoelectronic logic device includes a first and second piezoelectric transistor (PET), wherein the first and second PE layers of the first PET have a smaller cross sectional area than those of the second PET, such that a voltage drop across the PE layers of the first PET creates a first pressure in the PR layer of the first PET that is smaller than a second pressure in the PR layer of the second PET created by the same voltage drop across the PE layers of the second PET.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09590167&OS=09590167&RS=09590167
owner: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
number: 09590167
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160826
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 15 131 484 filed Apr. 18 2016 which is a continuation of U.S. Pat. No. 9 425 381 issued Aug. 23 2016 the disclosures of both of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. N66001 11 C 4109 awarded by Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA . The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates generally to integrated circuit devices and more particularly to low voltage transistor and logic devices with multiple stacked piezoelectronic layers.

Field Effect Transistors FETs support the standard computer architecture CMOS currently used in logic and memory. Their shrinking size over several decades following Moore s law led to enormous increases in speed and reductions in voltage as predicted by Dennard scaling theory. However starting around 2003 supply voltages could no longer be reduced and that meant clock speeds had to be limited to prevent excessive power densities. Discovery of a fast low voltage switching device based on a different principle of operation has become critical for the continued pace of information technology.

One way in which the approach could be different would be to have the voltage that controls the switching device transduced into another energy state such as pressure which is gated and then transduced back into a voltage or current at the output. With mechanical amplification in the case of pressure transduction it is possible to have a very small input voltage control a rather large output. The result is a switch for logic and memory that operates at an extremely low power density.

It is also desirable to find a technology that can build multi layer structures that open up significant new applications such as high capacity multilayer memories and combinations of logic and memory at different levels optimized to reduce wiring length. Such structures are very difficult to make in CMOS because of the need for all FETs to be formed in single crystal silicon. Technologies based on other materials may allow more three dimensional structures.

In an exemplary embodiment a piezoelectronic transistor device includes a first piezoelectric PE material layer a second PE material layer and a piezoresistive PR material layer arranged in a stacked configuration wherein an electrical resistance of the PR material layer is dependent upon an applied voltage across the first and second PE material layers by way of an applied pressure to the PR material layer by the first and second PE material layers.

In another embodiment a piezoelectronic logic device includes a first piezoelectric transistor PET device and a second PET device the first PET device and the second PET device each having a first PE material layer a second PE material layer and a piezoresistive PR material layer arranged in a stacked configuration wherein an electrical resistance of the PR material layer is dependent upon an applied voltage across the first and second PE material layers by way of an applied pressure to the PR material layer by the first and second PE material layers wherein the first and second PE material layers of the first PET device have a smaller cross sectional area than the first and second PE material layers of the second PET device such that a voltage drop across the first and second PE material layers of the first PET device creates a first pressure in the PR material layer of the first PET device that is smaller with respect to a second pressure in the PR material layer of the second PET device created by the same voltage drop across the first and second PE material layers of the second PET device.

Piezoelectronic switches and memory consist of a piezoelectric PE material in mechanical contact with a piezoresistive PR material that changes its resistivity upon compression and rarefaction. In operation PE material expansion compresses the PR and causes it to change into a stable state with a low resistance. Conversely PE contraction changes the PR into a stable state with a high resistance. Detailed discussions of piezoelectronics including materials for the PE and PR and simulations of piezoelectronic transistors PETs logic inverters ring oscillators and flip flops may be found in D. M. Newns B. G. Elmegreen X. H. Liu G. Martyna 2012 A Low Voltage High Speed Electronic Switch Based on Piezoelectric Transduction J. Appl. Phys. 111 084509 and in D. M. Newns B. G. Elmegreen X. H. Liu G. Martyna 2012 High Response Piezoelectric and Piezoresistive Materials for Fast Low Voltage Switching Simulation and Theory of Novel Transduction Physics at the Nanoscale Advanced Materials 24 p. 3672 3677. Further patent related disclosures for other aspects of the PET may be found in U.S. Pat. No. 8 159 854 to Elmegreen et al. U.S. Pat. No. 8 247 947 to Elmegreen et al. and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 176 880.

With respect the above mentioned application of PE and PR materials for use in transistor devices the piezoelectronic transistor PET has been proposed as a low voltage high frequency switch in which an applied gate voltage expands a PE material transducer generating high pressure in an adjacent PR material which then transforms from semiconducting to metallic electrical behavior. As discussed in further detail below a single PE layer PET may be embodied as a 3 terminal device or with the addition of a low permittivity dielectric layer as a 4 terminal device. In either instance the PE and PR layers are embedded in a material with high Young s modulus HYM to resist deformation. Logic circuits analogous to conventional CMOS may be made from combinations of PETs as part of a new field referred to as piezoelectronics.

Referring initially to there is shown a cross sectional view and a perspective view respectively of a 3 terminal PET . As is shown the 3 terminal PET includes a PE material layer disposed between a gate electrode and a common electrode a PR material layer disposed between the common electrode and a sense electrode and a semi rigid high yield material HYM serving as a housing that surrounds the materials and electrodes. Again a PE material is a material that may either expand or contract when an electric potential is applied thereacross while a PR material in the present context is a material that changes resistivity with applied mechanical stress so as to transition from an insulator to a conductor. A medium between the HYM and the various electrodes PE and PR material layers may remain as a void or be filled with a soft solid material or a gas e.g. air . As particularly shown in the perspective view of the PE material layer has a cross sectional area A along the x y axes and a thickness L along the z axis. The PR material layer has a cross sectional area a along the x y axes and a thickness l along the z axis.

In operation an input voltage coupled to the gate electrode and the common electrode is applied across the PE material layer the arrow in the figures representing the direction of the electric field when the voltage is applied which causes an expansion and displacement of the crystal material of the PE material layer that in turn acts on the PR material layer via the HYM . That is the induced pressure from the PE material layer causes an insulator to metal transition so that the PR material layer provides a conducting path between the common electrode and the sense electrode . The HYM ensures that the displacement of the PE material layer is transmitted to the PR material layer rather than the surrounding medium .

The PE material layer can be made from a relax or such as PMN PT lead magnesium niobate lead titanate or PZN PT lead zinc niobate lead titanate or other PE materials typically made from perovskite titanates. Such PE materials have a large value of displacement V d e.g. d 2500 pm V support a relatively high piezoelectric strain 1 and have a relatively high endurance. The PE material layer could also be made from PZT lead zirconate titanate . The PR material layer is formed from a material that undergoes an insulator to metal transition under increasing pressure in a range such as 0.4 3.0 GPa. Examples of PR materials include samarium selenide SmSe thulium telluride TmTe nickel disulfide diselenide Ni SSe vanadium oxide VO doped with a small percentage of Cr and calcium ruthenium oxide CaRuO . The insulator layer s can have a relatively high Young s modulus for example 60 gigapascals GPa to 250 GPa a relatively low dielectric constant e.g. about 4 12 and a high breakdown field. Suitable insulator materials include for example silicon dioxide SiO or silicon nitride SiN .

The electrode materials may be made from strontium ruthenium oxide SrRuO SRO platinum Pt tungsten W or other hard conducting materials.

An alternative to the 3 terminal PET design of is illustrated in which depicts a schematic cross sectional diagram of a 4 terminal PET . For ease of description like materials are denoted with similar reference numerals. As is the case for the 3 terminal PET the 4 terminal PET in also includes a single PE material layer . Here however instead of being disposed between a gate electrode and a common electrode the PE material layer is disposed between a first gate electrode and a second gate electrode . A low permittivity insulator layer separates the second gate electrode from a first sense electrode . Effectively the common electrode of the 3 terminal configuration is split into the second gate electrode and the first sense electrode for a 4 terminal configuration. The PR material layer is between the first sense electrode and a second sense electrode .

The insulator layer separating the second gate electrode and first sense electrode may have a relatively high Young s modulus such as in the range of about 60 gigapascals GPa to about 250 GPa for example a relatively low dielectric constant e.g. about 4 12 and a high breakdown field. Suitable insulator materials thus include for example silicon dioxide SiO or silicon nitride SiN . Similar to the 3 terminal PET configuration the 4 terminal PET includes a high yield strength material such as silicon dioxide SiO or silicon nitride SiN which surrounds and encapsulates all of the components described above. Again there is a gap or vacant space between the various layers of the 4 terminal PET and the high yield material which increases the freedom of mechanical displacement of the layers. The electrodes in the 4 terminal PET may include materials such as strontium ruthenium oxide SrRuO SRO platinum Pt tungsten W or other suitable mechanically hard conducting materials.

In operation of the 4 terminal PET an input voltage between the first gate electrode and the second gate electrode may be always positive or zero. When the input voltage is zero the PE material layer has no displacement and the PR material layer is uncompressed giving it a high electrical resistance such that the 4 terminal PET is off . When a significant positive voltage is applied between the first gate electrode and the second gate electrode the PE material layer develops a positive strain. That is the PE material layer expands upwards along the axis perpendicular to the stack. The upward expansion of the PE material layer tries to compress the high Young s modulus insulator but the main effect is to compress the more compressible PR material layer . The compressive action is effective because the surrounding high yield strength material strongly constrains the relative motion of the top of the second sense electrode and the bottom of the first gate electrode . The combined effect of the mechanical compression of the PR material layer by the constrained stack and the PR material layer piezoresistive response is to lower the first sense electrode to the second sense electrode impedance by about 3 5 orders of magnitude under conditions where the input voltage is the designed line voltage VDD. The 4 terminal PET switch is now on .

Piezoelectronics such as illustrated in the examples of may be designed to follow the Dennard scaling scenario i.e. the power density is independent of lithographic length scale. The motivation for developing the PET is that Dennard scaling has now ceased for conventional CMOS. As a result CMOS clock speed which is limited by power density has not increased since 2003 whereas piezoelectronics promises to break this barrier. Because the voltage to switch the PET is only about 10 20 of the voltage for a field effect transistor FET the power required by piezoelectronics is only a few percent of that for CMOS at the same clock frequency. A functional low power switch such as the PET is predicted to be would have broad implications for speed and power requirements in systems ranging from portable electronics to supercomputers.

The intrinsic speed of a PET device is determined by a combination of the sound crossing time through the PE and the RC time of the circuit. The sound crossing time enters because of the finite speed of propagation of the expansion of the PE which regulates the resistance through the PR. The RC time of the circuit may include other PET s and devices with various fan outs and fan ins. Designs that minimize sonic oscillations and their associated resistance oscillations have critical damping which for purely resistive damping means that the RC time associated with each PET circuit is comparable to the sonic time in that PET. Longer RC times slow down the expansion of the PE because the surface charge which drives the expansion takes a long time to build up. On the other hand shorter times can lead to excessive oscillations in the PE and to unwanted resonances and harmonics with other PETs in the circuit.

A design constraint concerns the voltage between the drive and the common across the PE. This is determined by the expansion distance of the PE that is required to compress the PR sufficiently to decrease its resistance to an operable range during the ON state of the PET. Materials with higher piezoelectric constants allow lower voltages for a given displacement and PR compression. However there is a lower limit on the required voltage that depends on the availability of suitable PE materials and on the PET design. One important aspect of this PET design is the area ratio between the PE and the PR which determines the stress multiplier. Higher area ratios allow lower applied voltages to give the same PR compression but higher areas also have higher PE capacitance which increases the RC time.

It is therefore desirable to find alternative designs which for geometric reasons lower the required voltage or increase the operating frequency or both without changing the material properties of the PE and PR. The present invention gives such designs. A key aspect is the ability in fabrication to stack the component layers.

As described in further detail herein stacked PE and PR materials also allow more complex PET designs with minimal surface area. For example it would be desirable to reduce the number of devices in the NAND gate which are four in CMOS. Embodiments herein describe for example a NAND gate formed from a pair of 2 PET devices each of which has a multilayer stack structure. Additional embodiments for piezoelectronics are described herein in which devices contain multiple layers of PE and PR materials separated by metallic or insulator layers. Proper stacking for a PET allows combinations of desirable attributes such as for example lower voltage lower power higher frequency higher density and or greater flexibility.

For purposes of comparison a standard or reference PET such as that described above in refers to a PET having just a single PE material layer of thickness L and area A and a PR material layer disposed at one end of the PE of thickness l and area a. Comparisons between the embodiments described below and the reference design are made with respect to voltage capacitance power and frequency. Two positions for the PR material are considered relative to the PE material and various thicknesses for the PE and PR materials are considered as examples of possible modifications to the reference design. Additional designs with more layers other relative positions other PE thicknesses and with various changes to the PR dimensions are understood to be modifications that are contemplated to be within the scope of the present embodiments.

Referring now to there is shown a cross sectional diagram of a 3 terminal PET device having first and second PE material layers stacked adjacent to one another and coupled to a PR material layer in which the first and second PE material layers have thicknesses about half that i.e. L 2 of the PE layer of . As can be seen from the PR material layer is at one end of the PE stack and has the same dimensions as in the reference design. The voltage required for a given PR compression is about half of the reference value V 2 but now the capacitance is four times the reference 4C because the contact area is twice as large and the capacitor thickness is half the reference.

The energy to compress the PR material layer is the sum of a Coulomb energy in the capacitor 0.5 CV plus the compressional energies in both the PR material layer and PE material layers . For a fixed pressure in the PR material layer and fixed overall dimensions the compressional energies are about the same in as in the reference design. The Coulomb energy is also about the same. Thus the electrical energy to generate the same pressure is about the same with respect to the reference design.

By way of a further comparison the sonic time in the PET design of equals the reference time T because a rarefaction wave has to travel over the same distance L before stress equilibrium in both PEs is reached. Critical damping therefore requires a PR resistance equal to of the reference value to offset the 4 increased capacitance in the PE at the same RC time. The power used is equal to the energy divided by the time which is therefore also about the same. This design is therefore useful for low voltage devices with reference power and speed. Low voltage with reference PET power should imply lower power overall in the circuit for a given wiring capacitance because the power lost to the wiring scales as the square of the voltage.

In a design such as the PET of the operating voltage can decrease to arbitrarily low values V N at constant switching frequency with the voltage in inverse proportion to the number N of PEs in the stack if each PE layer thickness decreases inversely with N as L N and the PR resistance decreases like R Nto maintain a constant RC time. The frequency would be invariant in this case as in because the distance between the PR surface of the PE and the HYM is still L. This scaling assumes that the pressure and inertial delays in the thin metal conducting layers are negligible realistic delays in these layers would slow the device somewhat compared to this simple model. Actual PET timing depends on the density thickness and Young s modulus in the metal layers. PET timing also depends on other materials properties in addition to the properties of the PE and PR such as the stiffness of the surrounding high Young s modulus material and it depends on the resistance and capacitance in the wiring of the circuit and the resistance and capacitance of the contact surfaces between the different materials. The lower limit to the voltage is set by the lower limit to the resistance which requires a minimum off resistance to avoid excessive leakage during operation.

Referring now to there is shown a schematic cross sectional diagram of an alternative embodiment of the PET device of in which the PR material layer is disposed between the first and second PE material layers . For the PET of the voltage required for a given PR compression is now about half of the reference value V 2 the capacitance is four times the reference 4C and the energy to compress the PR material layer is about the same as the reference energy as is the case for the embodiment. However the sonic time is now half the reference value T 2 because the rarefaction wave only has to travel over the distance L 2 before stress equilibrium in both PEs is reached. For critical damping the power used is therefore twice the reference power and the resistance in the PR material layer should be about the normal value so that the RC time is half the reference value like the sonic time. Accordingly this design is useful for low voltage high speed devices. An alternate design with the common and gate terminals inverted in one of the PEs would result in having the same poling directions for the PE material layers 

The PR material layers are connected in series such that the total resistance is the same as in the reference case. For this design shown with N 4 in the voltage required to compress the PR material layer to the reference pressure is about V N and the sonic time is about N times the reference value T 2N. The capacitance is NC which means the resistivity in the PR material layer has to be less than reference as R Nso the RC time scales with the sonic time. This design is useful for low voltage and high speed operation.

Referring now to there is shown a schematic diagram of a logical AND gate that may be formed using a pair of 2 PE layer PET devices in accordance with another embodiment. As is shown the AND gate includes a first PET device interconnected with a second PET device to form an AND gate with a low area footprint. The first PET device is configured so as to have a smaller cross sectional area for the PE material layers than with respect to the PE material layers for the second PET device so a given voltage drop across the PE material layers creates a smaller pressure in the PR material layer of the first PET device than in the PR material layer of the second PET device .

For both the first PET device and the second PET device a corresponding resistivity versus pressure graph for CaRuOis shown above the respective devices in . The leftmost vertical dashed line in each graph indicates the resulting pressure applied to the PR material layer for a voltage applied across either of but not both the PE material layers for that PET device. The rightmost vertical dashed line in each graph indicates the resulting pressure applied to the PR material layer when a voltage is applied across both the PE material layers for that device. As will be noted from the resistivity curves the first PET device is in a low resistance state for the PR material layer only when both PE material layers are charged whereas the second PET device is in a low resistance state for the PR material layer whenever either PE material layer or PE material layer is charged or both. Thus the first PE device has the characteristics of an and like operation in that both PE material layers have to be charged in order to decrease the resistance of the PR material layer if either PE material layer or PE material layer is uncharged or if neither is charged then the resistance of the PR material layer is high. In contrast the second PE device has the characteristics of an or like operation if either PE material layer or PE material layer is charged or if both are charged then the resistance of the PR material layer is low but if neither is charged then the resistance of the PR material layer is high.

The combination of these two logical operations may therefore result in an AND gate with the wiring shown for the PR material layers . Specifically the output terminal OP is high with a voltage equal to Vonly when both inputs and are high thereby defining an AND gate. A complete truth table for the AND gate of is illustrated in . As described in the truth table the designation E refers to a PE material layer being expanded and the designation refers to a PE material layer not being expanded. The designation Hi refers to a PR material layer being in the high resistance state and the designation Lo refers to a PR material layer being in the low resistance state.

By way of example when both IP and IP are low logical 0 neither PE material layer nor PE material layer are expanded since the electrode therebetween is connected to ground and no voltage is applied across these layers. The PR material layer is thus in a high resistance state. On the other hand IP and IP both being low causes both PE material layer and PE material layer to be expanded since the electrode therebetween is connected to Vand thus Vis applied across these layers. The PR material layer is therefore in a low resistance state. Because the PR material layer and the PR material layer are connected in series between Vand ground and the output terminal OP is connected between PR material layer and PR material layer the high resistance of PR material layer isolates OP from V while the low resistance of PR material layer couples OP to ground. It will be noted that the AND gate is connected such that PR material layer and PR material layer are always in an opposite resistance state with respect to one another so as to allow OP to go to either Vor ground and to prevent a short circuit.

As further shown in the truth table when IP and IP are opposite only one of PE material layer or PE material layer are expanded and so the PR material layer remains in a high resistance state. Conversely opposite logic values of IP and IP result in one of PE material layer or PE material layer being expanded in turn resulting in PR material layer being in a low resistance state. Therefore OP is low ground . However when both IP and IP are high logical 1 both PE material layer and PE material layer are expanded which then drives PR material layer to a low resistance state. Conversely when both IP and IP are high neither PE material layer nor PE material layer are expanded in turn resulting in PR material layer being in a high resistance state. In this instance OP is high i.e. coupled to Vvia the low resistance PR material layer .

By reconfiguring the wiring of the AND gate a NAND gate function may also be achieved using the same a pair of 2 PE layer PET devices . In this regard is a schematic diagram of a NAND gate using a pair of 2 PE layer PET devices in accordance with another embodiment. Here the wiring across the PR material layers is reversed with respect to the AND gate embodiment of such that the PR material layer is connected between Vand OP while the PR material layer is connected between OP and ground. As one skilled in the art is equally familiar with the logical operation of a NAND gate the specific details of operation of the device are not repeated in detail herein. However illustrates a truth table for the NAND gate of . It should be readily apparent from the above description that other logic operations using stacked PET technology are also contemplated which may result in decreasing the density of PET logic on a chip and with increased or similar performance to that in the previous designs.

As will thus be appreciated the fabrication of PE and PR materials in stacks with intervening layers of conductive or non conductive materials allows for greater diversity in PET operations and applications as compared to single PE and single PR stacks. In particular low voltage low power and or high frequency designs are possible with optimal numbers and thicknesses of the PEs in a stack. Stacking also allows for complex logic devices to be designed with small cross sectional areas for greater density on a chip.

While the invention has been described with reference to an exemplary embodiment or embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

