---

title: Inter-RAT mobility of in-device coexistence
abstract: Embodiments of system, device, and method configurations for managing inter-radio access technology (inter-RAT) mobility of handovers between a UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network (UTRAN) or GSM EDGE Radio Access Network (GERAN) and an evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) to avoid scenarios of in-device coexistence (IDC) interference are disclosed herein. In one example, the existence and types of IDC interference with an E-UTRAN Long Term Evolution (LTE)/Long Term Evolution-Advanced (LTE-A) network are determined and communicated to the UTRAN/GERAN in an IDC indication signal. The IDC indication signal may communicate the existence and type of IDC interference occurring at user equipment, such as between licensed LTE/LTE-A and unlicensed industrial scientific medical (ISM) radio frequency bands. Accordingly, the UTRAN/GERAN may use information provided from the IDC indication signal to prevent a handover to the E-UTRAN that would result in IDC interference.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09572077&OS=09572077&RS=09572077
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09572077
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160107
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 119 228 filed Nov. 21 2013 which is a U.S. National Stage Application filed under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application No. PCT US2013 067306 filed Oct. 29 2013 published as WO 2014 070768 which claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 721 436 filed Nov. 1 2012 which applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

Embodiments pertain to operations and communications performed by electronic devices in wireless networks. Some embodiments relate to operations for coordinating wireless network communications and connections to avoid coexistence interference occurring among respective wireless networks.

Next generation mobile networks such as 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE A networks are commonly deployed in a multi radio environment where a mobile station device referred to as User Equipment UE in LTE LTE A is equipped with multiple radio transceivers. Use of these multiple co located transceivers by a UE may lead to coexistence interference among networks utilizing nearby frequency bands.

Existing 3GPP LTE LTE A standards have proposed limited techniques to identify coexistence interference among multiple wireless radios. When a UE is connected to a Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN or GSM EDGE Radio Access Network GERAN the UE may perform an inter Radio Access Technology inter RAT measurement for connection with an Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN such as an LTE LTE A network to determine if the E UTRAN frequencies currently experience In Device Coexistence IDC interference. However the UTRAN GERAN does not know whether the UE may encounter other additional IDC interference problems until after the UE connects to the E UTRAN. This may result in the UTRAN GERAN performing a handover of UEs to an E UTRAN followed by coexistence interference with the E UTRAN. If coexistence interference occurs and the E UTRAN does not support a Time Division Multiplexing TDM solution to prevent the coexistence interference the network will handover the UE back to the UTRAN GERAN. Such network switching results in unnecessary signaling overhead.

The following description and the drawings sufficiently illustrate specific embodiments to enable those skilled in the art to practice them. Other embodiments may incorporate structural logical electrical process and other changes. Portions and features of some embodiments may be included in or substituted for those of other embodiments. Embodiments set forth in the claims encompass all available equivalents of those claims.

The following describes example system and device implementations and techniques to support inter RAT mobility and in device coexistence IDC interference measurements for handover operations between a UTRAN GERAN and an E UTRAN. These implementations include a UE mobile device based technique that avoids handover to an E UTRAN using pessimistic signal measurement results a network based technique that tracks whether a UE mobile device is experiencing or has recently experienced a coexistence problem to avoid handover to the E UTRAN and an indication message based technique that provides signaling of an IDC interference condition from a UE to a UTRAN GERAN network to avoid handover to the E UTRAN.

IDC interference among communications with the E UTRAN and the ISM Bands may occur due to the proximity of LTE frequency bands with unlicensed ISM frequencies used for WLAN WPAN and GNSS communications. For example radio transmissions in LTE Band 40 2300 2400 MHz or LTE Band 7 Uplink 2500 2570 MHz may cause interference with the standard operation range of 2.4 GHz ISM bands 2400 2483.5 MHz and ISM radio transmissions in the 2.4 GHz ISM bands may cause interference with reception in LTE Band 40. In addition transmissions in LTE Bands 2500 2570 MHz LTE Band 13 Uplink 777 787 MHz and LTE Band 14 Uplink 788 798 MHz may cause interference with GNSS radio reception of various global satellite communications in nearby and co located frequency bands. Other conflicts of LTE frequency bands with other regulated licensed and unlicensed radio frequency bands may occur in a similar fashion.

If IDC interference with the LTE frequency bands communicated by the E UTRAN is detected at the UE the UE will report assistance information to indicate that there is an IDC interference problem. In response the E UTRAN may take action to reduce or resolve the IDC interference problem such as implementing a time division multiplexing TDM solution performing a handover of the UE to another frequency band or performing a handover of the UE to another radio access network. As shown in the transceiver is also configured for communication with a UTRAN e.g. a 3G UMTS or GERAN e.g. a 2G GSM EDGE radio access network. In other examples a separate transceiver may be used to receive and transmit LTE EUTRA radio communications separately from the UMTS GSM EDGE radio communications likewise separate antennas may be used to facilitate the separate radio communications . A connection established between the UE and the UTRAN GERAN may be transferred to the E UTRAN with use of a handover . Although the UE may prefer the connection with the E UTRAN if IDC interference occurs at the UE while connected to the E UTRAN the E UTRAN may facilitate a transfer to the UTRAN GERAN with a handover .

To ensure proper handover management within different radio access networks such as from a UTRAN GERAN to an E UTRAN a UE implementation of handover management may be designed to prevent handovers from a UTRAN GERAN network that would result in IDC interference. In one example a UE provides pessimistic signal quality measurements of the E UTRAN to effectively prevent handover to an E UTRAN where IDC interference would occur. illustrates example network implementation operations of handover management for inter RAT mobility in coexistence interference settings such as the UE IDC interference settings illustrated in that prevent handover of a UE from a UTRAN GERAN to an E UTRAN .

In the example operations depicted in the UE is configured to obtain a reference signal from an E UTRAN in order to determine the signal quality of the E UTRAN and whether to perform a handover. Because there are no requirements on time domain sampling for LTE measurements and because the interference from ISM bands might be bursty and can occur infrequently normal inter RAT measurements of interference might not reflect an accurate reflection of in device interference. Accordingly the UE is configured to report measurement results to the UTRAN GERAN determined from pessimistic measurements of the reference signal . The values in the measurement results may be communicated in a Reference Signal Received Quality RSRQ value. Accordingly the UE can delay or prevent handover by artificially reporting such pessimistic measurement results of the E UTRAN by reporting values lower than the actual measurement results. In response to receiving such measurements the UTRAN GERAN will avoid performing a handover and continue to avoid or deny a handover of the UE to E UTRAN for at least a period of time when interference might occur.

In another example a network implementation of handover management may be designed to track whether a UE is experiencing an in device coexistence problem. illustrates example network implementation operations of handover management for inter RAT mobility in coexistence interference settings such as the UE IDC interference settings illustrated in FIG. to prevent premature initiation of a handover of a UE from a UTRAN GERAN to an E UTRAN .

In this implementation the radio access networks track whether the UE is experiencing an in device coexistence problem. In accordance with UE implemented techniques for detecting and handling IDC interference if IDC interference is experienced at the UE with a LTE communication signal the UE will communicate an indication of the interference which can result in the network deciding to perform a handover to move the UE from the E UTRAN to the UTRAN GERAN .

Before the UE is moved from the E UTRAN to the UTRAN GERAN with handover operation the source evolved NodeB eNB in the E UTRAN sends a message for handover preparation to the UTRAN GERAN . In this message the source eNB can include an IDC indication that indicates the cause of handover is from an in device coexistence problem. For example the IDC indication may be provided by adding one bit in a handover preparation message to designate the handover as caused from IDC interference. With the information from the IDC indication the UTRAN GERAN then knows that the UE has an in device coexistence problem and can employ measures to prevent an unnecessary handover back to the E UTRAN.

The UTRAN E UTRAN will avoid performing a handover of the UE back to the E UTRAN and deny the handover to the E UTRAN . In a further example E UTRAN frequencies experiencing the in device coexistence problems can also be indicated in the handover preparation message to allow handover to occur but not to the potentially problematic frequencies. For example the UE may choose to not perform measurements for LTE frequencies having potential in device coexistence problems. In addition when the UE is handed over within the UTRAN GERAN handover preparation messages between UTRAN GERAN nodes can include an indication that UE might have an in device coexistence problem and include a list of E UTRAN frequencies having potential in device coexistence problems.

In a further example depicted in the UTRAN GERAN may maintain a timer to track how much time has elapsed since the UE was handed over from the LTE network. This is shown with the start of the Handover Timer and the end of the Handover Timer during which the UTRAN GERAN will deny the handover to the E UTRAN . If the timer expires or meets a defined value the UTRAN GERAN can allow the UE to conduct a handover back to the LTE network for example by configuring UE to perform measurements for E UTRAN frequencies having in device coexistence problems and verify that interference is not being experienced with a reference signal based on an IDC assessment measurements at the UE . When a handover of the UE to the E UTRAN is prepared within the UTRAN GERAN handover preparation messages between UTRAN GERAN nodes can also include the current value of the timer to enable time tracking to continue after handover to the E UTRAN . In other examples other time based tracking techniques e.g. a timestamp of the last interference event may be used in place of a timer. The handover preparation messages between UTRAN GERAN nodes may also include the indication that UE might have an in device coexistence problem may also include a list of one or more E UTRAN frequencies known to experience in device coexistence problems.

In another example handover management may be directly controlled as a result of a UE interference indication message that communicates whether the UE is experiencing an in device coexistence problem. This UE indication may be provided in response to an IDC indication setting maintained by the network and communicated to the UE which controls whether the UE is allowed to send the indication message. illustrates example network implementation operations of handover management for inter RAT mobility in coexistence interference settings such as the UE IDC interference settings illustrated in that communicate the existence of IDC interference for an E UTRAN from a UE to a UTRAN GERAN .

As shown in an IDC indication setting may be communicated from the UTRAN GERAN to the UE . In some examples a UE that supports IDC indication functionality may indicate this capability to the UTRAN GERAN prior to receiving the IDC indication setting . Accordingly the UTRAN GERAN may control whether the UE is allowed to send an IDC indication with IDC indication setting .

While connected to the UTRAN GERAN the UE may determine that IDC interference would occur at the UE between E UTRAN communications and other radio communications based on an IDC assessment and measurements performed upon a reference signal received from the E UTRAN . When the UE detects a level of IDC interference with E UTRAN communications that cannot be solved by the UE itself the UE can then produce an IDC indication which is communicated to the UTRAN GERAN to report the determined interference problems. The IDC indication may be sent via dedicated RRC signaling to the UTRAN GERAN . In response to the IDC indication that indicates interference the UTRAN GERAN will avoid a handover to the E UTRAN .

An example of an IDC interference indication e.g. communicated with the IDC indication includes a message with a defined data structure to include the list of E UTRAN frequencies that may be affected by the present IDC problems. For example the IDC indication data structure may include data values that define a list of E UTRA carrier frequencies affected by IDC problems and a data value to indicate the direction of IDC interference. The direction of the IDC interface may be indicated by a value eutra to indicate that only the E UTRA radio is victim of IDC interference a value other to indicate that only another radio is victim of IDC interference or a value both to indicate that both the E UTRA radio and another radio are victims of IDC interference. The another radio may refer to an ISM radio or a GNSS receiver for example .

The condition to avoid the handover may occur for a period of time or until interference conditions change. For example the E UTRAN may provide a subsequent reference signal that can be analyzed with another IDC assessment and measurements . The results of the IDC assessment and measurements may be provided in an IDC indication that indicates that interference is not present. For example the IDC indication may be configured to include a blank carrier frequency list to inform the UTRAN GERAN that the IDC interference is not present or has ceased. Based on the IDC indication of no interference an E UTRAN handover may proceed.

One benefit of providing a UE indication such as IDC indication IDC indication is that the involved radio access networks will obtain full information of the in device interference situation and accurate inter RAT measurement results. Based on this information the radio access networks can decide whether to perform or avoid deny inter RAT handover based on factors such as load balancing measurement results or other information.

In further examples techniques may be performed at the UE to ensure that the UE measurements and assessments e.g. assessments are properly performed for inter RAT measurement of E UTRAN frequencies. For example the assessment may be assisted by having the UE delay or avoid any ISM transmissions when the UE is performing interference measurements.

In operation the UE receives an indication setting that controls whether to communicate an IDC interference indication back to the network. This indication setting may be provided from the UTRAN GERAN to indicate whether the UTRAN GERAN network supports processing as a result of IDC interference. In some examples use of the indication setting is optional and the UE is configured to provide the IDC interference indication independent of any network setting.

In operation the UE receives an E UTRAN reference signal. Using this reference signal the UE performs a measurement of IDC interference in operation . In operation the UE can respond by communicating an indication of the existence amount and type of IDC interference. Accordingly in operation the GERAN UTRAN can respond to the measurement of IDC interference by delaying a handover to the E UTRAN until the removal of the IDC interference. The removal of the IDC interference may be determined from subsequent measurements and verifications of IDC interference from the expiration of a timer or from network changes. Ultimately in operation the handover to the E UTRAN can be performed after removal of the IDC interference.

In operation the network transmits an indication setting to control whether the UE is allowed to communicate an IDC interference indication back to the network. This indication setting may be provided from the UTRAN GERAN for example to indicate whether the UTRAN GERAN supports specialized processing for E UTRAN handovers as a result of IDC interference. In other examples communication of the indication setting is optional and the network is automatically configured to monitor for an IDC interference indication.

In operation the E UTRAN provides a reference signal to the UE that can be used to perform an assessment and measurement of IDC interference. This reference signal may be provided at a defined interval or upon command by other aspects of the radio access network. In operation the radio access network receives an indication of the IDC interference that is occurring or may prospectively occur at the UE. This indication may include an indication of which radios at the UE is experiencing interference which direction reception or transmission at the UE is experiencing interference or which specific frequencies or frequency bands are encountering interference. As a result of this indication of interference steps can be taken at the radio access network to prevent further interference at the UE and improper handovers. For example as indicated in operation the radio access network may delay handover of the UE to the E UTRAN until the removal or reduction of the IDC interference.

In operation the radio access network receives an indication of the removal of IDC interference. This may be provided from an indication that certain frequency bands or all frequency bands are not experiencing IDC interference at the UE. In other examples the indication may be determined based on the expiration of a defined time or a timer which reaches a defined value. Once the potential for interference is determined to be reduced or eliminated the handover of the UE may be performed within the radio access networks for example with a handover of the UE from the GERAN UTRAN to E UTRAN as in operation .

Although the preceding examples of wireless network connections were provided with specific reference to 3GPP LTE LTE A IEEE 802.11 and Bluetooth communication standards it will be understood that a variety of other WWAN WLAN and WPAN protocols and standards may be used in connection with the techniques described herein. These standards include but are not limited to other standards from 3GPP e.g. HSPA UMTS IEEE 802.16 e.g. 802.16p or Bluetooth e.g. Bluetooth 4.0 or like standards defined by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group standards families. Other applicable network configurations may be included within the scope of the presently described communication networks. It will be understood that communications on such communication networks may be facilitated using any number of personal area networks LANs and WANs using any combination of wired or wireless transmission mediums.

The embodiments described above may be implemented in one or a combination of hardware firmware and software. Various methods or techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as flash memory hard drives portable storage devices read only memory ROM random access memory RAM semiconductor memory devices e.g. Electrically Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media and any other machine readable storage medium or storage device wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer or networking device the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques.

A machine readable storage medium or other storage device may include any non transitory mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer . In the case of program code executing on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Example computer system machine includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via an interconnect e.g. a link a bus etc. . The computer system machine may further include a video display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse . In one embodiment the video display unit input device and UI navigation device are a touch screen display. The computer system machine may additionally include a storage device e.g. a drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker an output controller a power management controller and a network interface device which may include or operably communicate with one or more antennas transceivers or other wireless communications hardware and one or more sensors such as a Global Positioning Sensor GPS sensor compass location sensor accelerometer or other sensor.

The storage device includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system machine with the main memory static memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

It should be understood that the functional units or capabilities described in this specification may have been referred to or labeled as components or modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a component or module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom very large scale integration VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A component or module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like. Components or modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified component or module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified component or module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the component or module and achieve the stated purpose for the component or module.

Indeed a component or module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within components or modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The components or modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Additional examples of the presently described method system and device embodiments include the following non limiting configurations. Each of the following non limiting examples may stand on its own or may be combined in any permutation or combination with any one or more of the other examples provided below or throughout the present disclosure.

Example 1 includes the subject matter embodied by a method performed by a device e.g. a user equipment UE wireless computing device for management of evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN handover in response to in device coexistence IDC interference occurring at the UE with operations including performing measurements at the UE to determine IDC interference occurring with radio communications of the E UTRAN and transmitting an indication of the IDC interference to a radio access network wherein handover of the UE is avoided from a UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN or a GSM EDGE Radio Access Network GERAN to the E UTRAN such that the UTRAN or GERAN refrains from performing a handover from the UTRAN or the GERAN to the E UTRAN in response to the indication of the IDC interference.

In Example 2 the subject matter of Example 1 can optionally include receiving an IDC indication setting from the UTRAN or the GERAN the IDC indication setting provided to instruct the UE to transmit the indication of the IDC interference to the UTRAN or the GERAN.

In Example 3 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 2 can optionally include the indication of the IDC interference being transmitted by the UE in response to the IDC indication setting that instructs the UE to transmit the indication of the IDC interference to the UTRAN or the GERAN.

In Example 4 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 3 can optionally include the indication of the IDC interference including a listing of one or more E UTRAN carrier frequencies affected by the IDC interference and a direction of the IDC interference.

In Example 5 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 4 can optionally include the indication of the IDC interference being transmitted to the UTRAN or the GERAN the method including performing subsequent measurements at the UE to determine a lack of IDC interference occurring with radio communications of the E UTRAN and transmitting a subsequent indication of an absence of the IDC interference to the UTRAN or the GERAN wherein handover of the UE is performed from the UTRAN or the GERAN to the E UTRAN in response to the subsequent indication of the absence of the IDC interference.

In Example 6 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 5 can optionally include the E UTRAN indicating that a cause of the handover is from the IDC interference by adding a bit in a handover preparation message wherein the handover preparation message includes a listing of one or more E UTRAN carrier frequencies affected by the IDC interference.

In Example 7 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 6 can optionally include the UE coordinating with a network implementation of the handover management to prevent handover wherein the network implementation of the handover management includes receipt of a handover preparation message at the UTRAN or the GERAN from the E UTRAN indicating the IDC interference and use of a timer at the UTRAN or the GERAN to avoid handover of the UE to the E UTRAN for a period of time.

In Example 8 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 7 can optionally include one or more handover preparation messages exchanged between UTRAN or GERAN nodes including an indication that the UE is affected by the IDC interference wherein the handover preparation messages exchanged between the UTRAN or GERAN nodes include a listing of one or more E UTRAN carrier frequencies affected by the IDC interference.

In Example 9 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 8 can optionally include the UE performing a UE implementation of the handover management to prevent handover wherein the UE implementation of the handover management includes receipt and processing by the UE of a reference signal received from the E UTRAN and communication of pessimistic measurements of the reference signal received from the E UTRAN and wherein the indication of the IDC interference includes the pessimistic measurements and wherein handover to the E UTRAN is avoided from the UTRAN or the GERAN in response to the pessimistic measurements.

In Example 10 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 9 can optionally include the IDC interference being caused by interference of a Long Term Evolution LTE radio of the UE with a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless personal area network WPAN radio or a Global Navigation Satellite System GNSS radio of the UE.

In Example 11 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 10 can optionally include the IDC interference occurring between radio transmissions of LTE Band 40 and a 2.4 GHz industrial scientific medical ISM frequency band between radio transmissions of LTE Band 7 and the 2.4 GHz ISM frequency band between radio transmissions of 2.4 GHz ISM bands and LTE Band 40 or between radio transmissions of LTE Band 7 LTE Band 13 or LTE Band 14 and reception of the GNSS radio.

Example 12 can include or can optionally be combined with all or portions of the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 8 to include the subject matter embodied by a wireless communication device such as a user equipment UE comprising circuitry arranged to perform radio communications in an industrial scientific and medical ISM radio frequency band and circuitry arranged to perform radio communications with an UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN or GSM EDGE Radio Access Network GERAN and an evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN the circuitry further arranged to facilitate handover management of the UE between the E UTRAN and the UTRAN or GERAN network with operations to measure IDC interference occurring between radio communications of the E UTRAN and the radio communications in the ISM radio frequency band and transmit an indication of the IDC interference to the UTRAN or the GERAN wherein handover of the UE from a UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN or GSM EDGE Radio Access Network GERAN to the E UTRAN is avoided in response to the indication of the IDC interference.

In Example 13 the subject matter of Example 12 can optionally include the circuitry arranged to perform radio communications with the UTRAN or GERAN and the E UTRAN being further arranged to respond to an IDC indication setting received from the UTRAN or the GERAN by processing the IDC indication setting to instruct the UE to transmit the indication of the IDC interference to the UTRAN or the GERAN.

In Example 14 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 12 13 can optionally include the circuitry arranged to perform radio communications with the UTRAN or GERAN and the E UTRAN being further arranged to perform subsequent measurements at the UE to determine a lack of IDC interference occurring with the E UTRAN and transmit a subsequent indication of an absence of the IDC interference to the UTRAN or GERAN in response to the determination of the lack of IDC interference occurring with the E UTRAN wherein handover of the UE to the E UTRAN is performed from the UTRAN or GERAN in response to the subsequent indication of the absence of the IDC interference.

In Example 15 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 12 14 can optionally include the circuitry arranged to perform radio communications with the UTRAN or GERAN and the E UTRAN being further arranged to coordinate with a network implementation of the handover management to prevent handover wherein the network implementation of the handover management includes receipt of a handover preparation message at the UTRAN or GERAN from the E UTRAN indicating the IDC interference and use of a timer at the UTRAN or GERAN for a period of time to avoid handover of the UE to the E UTRAN.

In Example 16 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 12 15 can optionally include the value of the timer being communicated to the E UTRAN during performance of the subsequent handover of the UE to the E UTRAN.

In Example 17 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 12 16 can optionally include the IDC interference being caused by interference of communications with the circuitry arranged to perform RAN communications to the E UTRAN conflicting with communications with the circuitry arranged to perform radio communications in the ISM radio frequency band the communications in the ISM radio frequency band being communicated with a wireless local area network WLAN radio a wireless personal area network WPAN radio or a Global Navigation Satellite System GNSS radio of the UE.

In Example 18 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 12 17 can optionally include circuitry arranged to receive radio communications from a Global Navigation Satellite System GNSS wherein the IDC interference includes interference occurring between the radio communications with the E UTRAN and the radio communications from the GNSS.

Example 19 can include or can optionally be combined with all or portions of the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 18 to include the subject matter embodied by a method performed by a radio access network RAN for management of handover of a user equipment UE to an evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN based on in device coexistence IDC interference conditions at the UE with operations including receiving at the RAN from the UE an indication of IDC interference of radio communications exchanged with the E UTRAN and preventing handover of the UE from the RAN to the E UTRAN in response to the indication of the IDC interference.

In Example 20 the subject matter of Example 19 can optionally include the RAN being a UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN or a GSM EDGE Radio Access Network GERAN .

In Example 21 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 19 20 can optionally include the indication of the IDC interference being produced at the UE in response to measurements at the UE of IDC interference occurring between a Long Term Evolution LTE radio of the UE arranged for communication with the E UTRAN and a wireless local area network WLAN radio a wireless personal area network WPAN radio or a Global Navigation Satellite System GNSS radio of the UE.

In Example 22 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 19 21 can optionally include the IDC interference occurring between radio transmissions of LTE Band 40 and a 2.4 GHz industrial scientific medical ISM frequency band between radio transmissions of LTE Band 7 and the 2.4 GHz ISM frequency band between radio transmissions of 2.4 GHz ISM bands and LTE Band 40 or between radio transmissions of LTE Band 7 LTE Band 13 or LTE Band 14 and reception of the GNSS radio.

In Example 23 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 19 22 can optionally include transmitting an IDC indication setting from the RAN to the UE the IDC indication setting providing an instruction to the UE to transmit the indication of the IDC interference to the RAN.

In Example 24 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 19 23 can optionally include receiving from the UE a subsequent indication of an absence of the IDC interference communicated to the RAN the subsequent indication provided in response to subsequent measurements performed at the UE that indicate a lack of IDC interference occurring with the E UTRAN and performing handover of the UE to the E UTRAN from the RAN in response to the subsequent indication of the absence of the IDC interference.

In Example 25 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 19 24 can optionally include receiving a handover preparation message at the RAN from the E UTRAN indicating the IDC interference preventing handover of the UE from the RAN to the E UTRAN with use of a timer for a period of time to avoid handover to the E UTRAN and communicating a value of the timer from the RAN to the UE in a handover preparation message.

Example 26 can include or can optionally be combined with all or portions of the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 25 to include the subject matter embodied by a radio access network RAN system comprising a primary radio access network RAN provided from an evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN and arranged for radio communication with a user equipment UE and a secondary RAN provided from a UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN or a GSM EDGE Radio Access Network GERAN and arranged for radio communication with the UE wherein the secondary RAN is arranged to manage handover of the UE to the E UTRAN in response to operations to communicate from the secondary RAN to the UE an indication setting used to request an indication of in device coexistence IDC interference of UE radio communications with frequency bands used by the E UTRAN receive at the secondary RAN from the UE the indication of IDC interference of UE radio communications with the frequency bands used by the E UTRAN and preventing handover from the secondary RAN to the E UTRAN in response to the indication of the IDC interference.

In Example 27 the subject matter of Example 26 can optionally include the indication of the IDC interference being produced at the UE in response to measurements at the UE of IDC interference occurring between a Long Term Evolution LTE radio of the UE arranged for communication with the E UTRAN and a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless personal area network WPAN radio or a Global Navigation Satellite System GNSS radio of the UE.

In Example 28 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 26 27 can optionally include the IDC interference occurring between radio transmissions of LTE Band 40 and a 2.4 GHz industrial scientific medical ISM frequency band between radio transmissions of LTE Band 7 and the 2.4 GHz ISM frequency band between radio transmissions of 2.4 GHz ISM bands and LTE Band 40 or between transmissions of LTE Band 7 LTE Band 13 or LTE Band 14 and reception of the GNSS radio.

In Example 29 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 26 28 can optionally include the RAN being arranged to perform handover of the UE from the secondary RAN to the E UTRAN in response to a subsequent indication of absence of the IDC interference.

The Abstract is provided to allow the reader to ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to limit or interpret the scope or meaning of the claims. The following claims are hereby incorporated into the detailed description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

