---

title: System and method for multimodal short-cuts to digital services
abstract: A method and system for facilitating user access to services through a wireless device of a user, involves recommending to a user a subset of services from a plurality of services available to the user in which each recommended service of the subset has at least one voice short-cut associated therewith, and selecting a service to be accessed through the user's wireless device from the subset of services according to a voice command by the user corresponding to the voice short-cut of the service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09497311&OS=09497311&RS=09497311
owner: Nokia Technologies Oy
number: 09497311
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20160531
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the priority benefit under 35 U.S.C. 120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 061 277 filed Feb. 4 2002 titled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MULTIMODAL SHORT CUTS TO DIGITAL SERVICES the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The present invention is directed to a system and method of accessing services such as digital services and more specifically to a system and method of facilitating multi modal access to services preferred by a user.

Wireless devices are widely employed by people to access the growing number of available digital services. Such access typically entails the utilization of a menu structure to enable a wireless user to identify the service of interest to be accessed. This is often a slow and cumbersome process. There are also well known methods for a user to explicitly select short cuts i.e. bookmarks to their preferred services to facilitate quicker access. However creation of such short cuts requires significant effort on the part of the user and organizing and accessing the short cuts can be difficult in digital devices with limited user interfaces UI .

Moreover in some situations e.g. while driving a car a user will be engaged in an activity which limits his or her ability to operate manually the digital device. In such situations it would be desirable for the user to have alternative means by which to access services through the device such as through voice command. However speech recognition capability of existing technology suitable for wireless devices is limited in terms of different words a speech recognition engine can reliably identify. With the large number of different digital services now available to wireless users it is not feasible to reliably recognize a voice command to access what amounts to be a practically unlimited set of services.

For example in the case of mobile internet services e.g. wml html xhtml pages the amount of accessible services is almost unlimited. This means that it is generally not feasible to store the names of all the available services in mobile terminals or in a centralized server. The mobile terminals simply do not have sufficient storage capacity. On the server side the storage capacity may not be a problem but it is not plausible that all mobile Internet services would register their names in a centralized server. Even if all the services were registered it would be very difficult for the user to uniquely indicate which service is requested.

For example if the user provides a voice command Yahoo news it would be impossible for the centralized server to know which service is requested since the well known service site Yahoo provides news in many countries. Furthermore knowing the language is not enough since Yahoo provides different news services for the different English speaking countries such as the United States the United Kingdom Ireland Singapore Australia New Zealand and so forth. Concerning the United States Yahoo further provides different services for different U.S. cities.

A method and system for facilitating user access to services through a wireless device of a user involves recommending to a user a subset of services from a plurality of services available to the user in which each recommended service of the subset has at least one voice short cut associated therewith and selecting a service to be accessed through the user s wireless device from the subset of services according to a voice command by the user corresponding to the voice short cut of the service.

A method and system for facilitating user access of services via a wireless device involve the combination of a service recommendation engine with voice or speech recognition technology to provide a user with voice speech or verbal hereinafter voice short cuts to access preferred services such as digital services of the user. These services may include for example web or WAP services content described in XML language or other Internet related languages e.g. WML HTML XHTML etc. teletext or any type of service accessible by a mobile user through a wireless device.

The service recommendation engine or algorithms used interchangeably herein are configured to recommend or determine a subset of services from a plurality of services according to user related filter criteria. Such criteria may be any factor unique or personal to the user or the user s wireless device which can be utilized in ascertaining or inferring possible services preferred by a particular user. Examples of user related filter criteria may include static or dynamic factors such as the user s service usage pattern or preference e.g. when where how a number of times etc. that a service was used the selected profile of the device or user e.g. the user s or device s characteristics and preferences the user s past and current activities user s or device profile e.g. the user s habits likes dislikes personal characteristics personal background activities etc. temporal variables e.g. time of day date day of week year daytime nighttime etc. position variables e.g. location at office at home etc. and or the user s or device s current context or environment which may be inferred from the user s perceived environment through one or more sensors e.g. a positioning sensor a compass a touch sensor an audio sensor a light sensor and a temperature sensor and or other information such as noted above including for example the user s or device s profile activities etc.

Once a set of recommended services are determined voice access to any one of these services may be accomplished through use of voice recognition technology for example by comparing the user s inputted voice command to voice short cuts associated with the services. The voice short cut s may be a phonetic expression e.g. phoneme associated with a service and employed to enable voice short cut to services through voice recognition comparison of a user s voice command with the voice short cuts of the services. The voice short cut s for each service may be obtained in a variety of ways such as being generated from the attributes of the service s address e.g. host name and or service name or other address attribute or being generated from metadata associated with the service or being defined by the user service provider voice registry or other system in the form of a voice tag e.g. Voice XML tag for a service. The voice short cut s may also be a temporary voice short cut assigned to a recommended service such as according to a hierarchy or priority of the recommendations. For example the voice short cut one or 1 can be temporarily assigned to a first recommended service of the subset the voice short cut two or 2 can be temporarily assigned to a second recommended service of the subset and so forth. The maintenance and generation of voice short cuts will be discussed in further detail below.

Accordingly through the above noted combination a wireless device may be configured with multi modal input functionality or control to enable a user to access preferred or desired services by voice command or other form of user input e.g. keypad touch display etc. while reducing or minimizing the processing load and memory and other hardware requirements necessary to implement such functionality or control in a wireless device. Such an arrangement does not require the user to remember the exact service addresses which are often complex and difficult to remember to access desired services reduces privacy concerns for the user in the access of services and provides for service options which may be organized and accessed without requiring substantial effort on the part of the user. Such an arrangement further reduces voice recognition processing while increasing recognition reliability through reduction of the range of necessary voice short cut comparisons.

In one exemplary embodiment such a system and method are implemented through a portable wireless device including a recommendation engine a voice recognition engine and a database of services accessible by the user. The recommendation engine recommends or determines a subset of services from a plurality of services to provide recommendations which are personal to and preferred by the user. The recommendation may be based on various user related filter criteria e.g. context and if desired limited to the range of past used services of the user. These recommended services may then be audibly or visibly outputted to the user for selection thereof by voice or other form of user input and such output may include information identifying the voice short cut s for one or more or each of the recommended services.

For example visual output of voice short cut enabled services may be displayed in the form of an icon or other visual forms e.g. URL address to inform the user of the availability of such short cuts so as to assist the user in effectively utilizing such short cuts. This may also be accomplished by other output means such as audio output.

Alternatively the recommended services or voice short cut enabled services may be transparent to the user e.g. not output to the user. In such a case determination of such recommended services may be triggered upon various events such as periodically at particular times days date at particular locations upon a manual command upon a particular activity etc. or a combination thereof.

In either case the user may thereafter input a command by voice or other input forms to select a service to be accessed from the subset of recommended services. When the input is a voice command the portable wireless device via the voice recognition engine processes the voice command to an appropriate a computer readable format or other data form readable by a speech decoder compares the processed voice command data to voice short cut s associated with the recommended services and identifies the service with a voice short cut matching the user s voice command. Thereafter the portable wireless device such as through its micro browser accesses the selected service automatically or upon a user command.

The recommendation engine may be configured to prioritize the recommendations or recommended services and to compare the voice command data with voice short cuts according to a priority of the voice short cut s or associated recommended services. This is particularly significant where a voice command may match a plurality of recommended services. In such a case the service with the higher priority is selected. Alternatively in a situation where a voice command may match a plurality of recommended services an indication of the matching recommended services such as their voice short cuts may be outputted to the user for selection therefrom.

In another embodiment the above system and method may be implemented through a distributed networked system in which various processing tasks and data maintenance may be distributed between a portable wireless device and one or more network elements such as a network server ad hoc or short range wireless networked partner and so forth. The tasks may be distributed in the following manner 

 1 The network server s or other network element may be configured to implement both the recommendation and voice recognition processing. For example after initiation of the micro browser by the user or other triggering event the wireless device receives a voice command from the user and forwards the voice command data to the network server and other relevant information such as user related filter criteria e.g. context and or information for determining such criteria. The network server determines a subset of recommended services from a plurality of services based on the user related filter criteria. The network server then via voice recognition processing identifies a service therefrom with a voice short cut matching the user s voice command. The network server then returns information corresponding to the identified service such as the service s address e.g. URL or other service access information to the wireless device for access thereof. Alternatively the network server may act as an intermediary between the wireless device and the service provider of the identified service and access the identified service for the wireless device.

In another example after initiation of the micro browser by the user or other triggering event the wireless device requests a service recommendation from a network server. The request may include other relevant information such user related filter criteria e.g. context. or information for determining such criteria. The network server receives the request along with any relevant information and determines a subset of recommended services from a plurality of services based on the user related filter criteria. These recommendations are then sent to the wireless device which outputs audibly or visibly the availability of such recommended services through voice or other user input short cuts.

The wireless device then receives the user s voice command and passes corresponding voice command data to the network server. The server then performs voice recognition processing on the voice command to identify a service from the plurality of recommended services with a voice short cut matching the user s voice command. The network server then returns information corresponding to the identified service such as the service s address e.g. URL or other service access information to the wireless device for access thereof. Alternatively the network server may act as an intermediary between the wireless device and the service provider of the identified service and access the identified service for the wireless device.

 2 The network server s may be configured to implement the recommendation processing with the wireless device performing the voice recognition processing. For example after initiation of the micro browser by the user or other triggering event the wireless device requests recommendations from a network server. The request may include other relevant information such as user related filter criteria or associated information in determining such criteria. The network server receives the request and relevant information and determines a subset of recommended services from a plurality of services based on the user related filter criteria. These selections are then sent to the wireless device and the device outputs audibly or visibly the availability of such recommended services through voice or other user input short cut.

The wireless device then receives the user s voice command and performs voice recognition processing of the voice command to identify a service from the plurality of recommended services with a voice short cut matching the user s voice command. Thereafter the wireless device via its micro browser or other platform accesses the selected service automatically or upon the user command.

 3 The network server s or other network element may be configured to implement the voice recognition processing. For example after the recommended services are audibly or visibly outputted to the user the wireless device receives a voice command from the user and forwards the voice command data to the network server and possibly other relevant information such the recommended services information and or voice short cuts e.g. voice XML tags for such services. The network server via voice recognition processing identifies a service from the plurality of recommended services with a voice short cut matching the user s voice command. The network server then returns information concerning the identified service such as the service s address e.g. URL or other service access information to the wireless device for access thereof. Alternatively the network server may act as an intermediary between the wireless device and the provider of the identified service and access the identified service for the wireless device.

In further embodiments the maintenance and generation of voice short cuts s for a particular digital service may be accomplished in various ways for example as follows 

 A Address attributes such as host name and service name or other portions of the address attributes may be utilized as a voice short cut of a digital service when performing voice recognition processing.

 B Voice short cuts may be generated from metadata associated with a particular service site. Metadata is often employed by search engines service sites and or other network entities to characterize or classify the content on a particular service site to facilitate user searches. Accordingly one or more voice short cuts may be generated for association with a particular service according to the metadata associated with that service such as by identifying and selecting one or more words or terms from the metadata which aptly characterizes the service. This may be accomplished by manually examining the metadata associated with a service site or through probability analysis in which the words or terms showing up a significant number of times or the greatest number of times is used as the voice short cut.

 C A voice tag registry or the like may be maintained by a network element such as a server which maintains a relational database of service addresses and their associated voice tags. Voice tag registry may be similar to domain name registry in which voice tags may be uniquely defined for a particular service using a standard format such as in XML. Through a central registry a uniform standard may be achieved for voice tags or the like and their usage in enabling voice access to associated services. A wireless device may request voice tags from the registry for the subset of recommended services prior to performing voice recognition processing. Alternatively whenever a service site is accessed the site may deliver the voice tag to the accessing device which can store the voice tag for future use.

Along similar lines a service provider may predefine voice tags for its service addresses and provide such information to the wireless device or other network elements in communication with the wireless device to facilitate voice based access to such service s . For example the service provider may embed voice tags in an XML message sent to the user s wireless device.

 D A user may define change or delete voice short cuts for a particular service which are stored locally on the user s wireless device or at a remote location accessible by the wireless device.

 E The wireless device generally may download predefined or generated voice short cuts associated with services from a remote location via a network. Such download may be performed when a new service is accessed by the user at periodic intervals upon a user request or upon some other predetermined triggering event.

 F Voice short cut s may also be a temporary short cut assigned to a recommended service such as according to hierarchy or priority of the recommendations. For example the voice short cut one or 1 can be temporarily assigned to a first recommended service of the subset the voice short cut two or 2 can be temporarily assigned to a second recommended service of the subset and so forth. Alternatively the voice short cut A can be temporarily assigned to a first recommended service of the subset the voice short cut B can be temporarily assigned to a second recommended service of the subset and so forth. Temporary voice short cuts may be employed together with a selection menu whether displayed or audibly outputted for enabling voice short cut to recommended services.

 G To specify a voice short cut voice tags may be used to categorize the voice short cut for a particular service. For example a voice short cut may be tagged for a particular service in XML format voice XML tag e.g. voice short cut to facilitate voice access in a digital service environment such as with Internet service etc.

These and other exemplary embodiments will now be discussed in further detail below with reference to the Figures. Turning to an exemplary network environment is provided in which a user operating a portable wireless device is able to employ multi modal input forms such as voice along with other user input forms to access preferred digital services through device . This is accomplished through combination of a service recommendation engine and a voice recognition engine each of which may be implemented locally at the portable wireless device or at a remote location such as at a network server to provide voice short cuts to the user s preferred services.

The recommendation engine determines a subset of recommended services from a plurality of services based on user related filter criteria e.g. context etc. and the voice recognition engine processes voice commands by the user to compare and match the voice commands to voice short cuts associated with the recommended services to enable user selection and access of a service from the recommended services by voice short cut.

As shown a network diagram illustrates an example of a relationship between the user s portable wireless device a wireless access point an infrastructure network a network server a voice tag registry and a third party service provider interconnected over the Internet . The user s wireless device communicates over a radio link with the wireless access point which is connected to a wireless network which is connected to a protocol gateway . The gateway is connected over the Internet to the server .

The network formed by the wireless device wireless access point and infrastructure network can be implemented as a digital wireless wide area network WAN based on architectures such as Global System for Mobile Communication GSM IS 136 TDMA based Digital Advanced Mobile Phone Service DAMPS Personal Digital Cellular PDC IS 95 CDMA based cdmaOne System General Packet Radio Service GPRS and broadband wireless architectures such as W CDMA and Broadband GPRS. For more information on these digital wireless wide area network architectures see the book by Yi Bing Lin et al. entitled Wireless and Mobile Network Architectures John Wiley Sons 2001. The network can also be a short range wireless system connected to a wide area landline infrastructure network such as the Internet . Short range wireless systems include both wireless personal area network PAN and wireless local area network LAN . Both of these networks have the common feature of operating in unlicensed portions of the radio spectrum usually either in the 2.4 GHz Industrial Scientific and Medical ISM band or the 5 GHz Unlicensed National Information Infrastructure U NII band. Wireless personal area networks use low cost low power wireless devices that have a typical range of ten meters. The best known example of wireless personal area network technology is the Bluetooth Standard which operates in the 2.4 GHz ISM band. It provides a peak air link speed of one Mbps and a power consumption low enough for use in personal portable electronics such as PDAs and mobile phones. The Bluetooth Special Interest Group Specification Of The Bluetooth System Version 1.0B Volumes 1 and 2 December 1999 describes the principles of Bluetooth device operation and communication protocols. Wireless local area networks generally operate at higher peak speeds of from 10 to 100 Mbps and have a longer range which requires greater power consumption. Wireless local area networks are typically used as wireless links from portable laptop computers to a wired LAN via an access point AP . Examples of wireless local area network technology include the IEEE 802.11 Wireless LAN Standard and the HIPERLAN Standard which operates in the 5 GHz U NII band. For more information on wireless LANs see the book by Jim Geier entitled Wireless LANs Macmillan Technical Publishing 1999. The network formed by the wireless device wireless access point and infrastructure network can use a wireless communications protocol such as the Wireless Application Protocol WAP the I Mode protocol or the mobile IPv6 protocol.

The portable wireless device may take the form of a processor based wireless communication enabled device such as a wireless mobile telephone pager two way radio smartphone personal communicator laptop or notebook computer wireless personal digital assistant PDA or the like. The portable wireless device includes a plurality of output subsystems such as a displayed browser and a speaker to provide for multi modal output functionality and a plurality of user input subsystems such as microphone keypad a touch display and so forth to provide for multi modal input functionality. The input and output devices of the wireless device may be integrated into the device itself and or may be in communication with the device over a wireless connection such as short range wireless line e.g. infra red radio link etc. 

The browser may be partitioned as desired to have a main display area A and a voice short cut indication display area B to display voice shortcut related information such as in the form of an icon or other visual representation to notify the user of the availability of voice shortcuts to recommended services. Voice shortcut display area B may also display the textual character expression of the voice shortcuts to assist the user in learning such shortcuts or accessing services in a hands free environment. The voice shortcuts or indications thereof may also be audibly output via voice response unit in combination with the speaker likewise to notify the user of the availability of voice shortcuts and to assist the user in learning such short cuts or accessing services in a hands free environment.

The portable wireless device further includes various programs and databases including the user s personal programs and databases programs and databases associated with the conventional operation of the wireless device and programs and databases to implement the multi modal short cut service access processes discussed herein. These programs and databases may include for example application programs communication programs service history log current context state recommendation algorithms or engine to enable local and or network based service recommendations voice recognition engine VRE and voice tag generator for generating voice tags or generally voice short cuts. These programs may further include a voice response unit VRU for converting data such as text to speech which can be outputted to the user via speaker .

Voice recognition engine may employ various well known voice recognition techniques for example speech or speaker speech independent recognition such as employed in speech independent name dialers SINDs . Such speech independent recognition engine generally includes basic components such as a front end a dictionary an acoustic model and a speech decoder. The front end converts speech into a data form suitable for analysis by a speech decoder. The dictionary maintains a list of words or phrases recognizable by the system and may take the form of the service history log which may maintain voice tags for associated services or take any other form suitable to identify voice short cuts for services available to the user. The acoustic model in this example may be an isolated word or continuous speech independent model based on Hidden Markov Modeling HMM to provide mathematical representations of the words or phrases the system can recognize. Finally the speech decoder compares speech with the stored acoustic models to identify the most likely match between the speech and corresponding words or phrases in the dictionary.

While speech independent recognition is preferably employed when speech recognition is to be performed by the mobile device other well known speech recognition techniques such as speech dependent recognition may also be employed by the mobile device or network server.

The voice tag generator is configured to provide generation of voice short cuts in the form of voice tags. The generator may for example generate a voice tag for a particular service based on metadata associated with the services such as metadata from the service provider or other system e.g. search engine provider . Generation of a voice tag may entail filtering or parsing the metadata to obtain a suitable phonetic expression e.g. a phonetically expressible term which preferably characterizes the service or the content of the service. For instance the generator may determine the number of occurrences of particular terms in the metadata associated with a service site and select the term s with the greatest number of occurrences as the voice short cut for that service. Alternatively selection may be performed manually by an operator searching the metadata to select an appropriate term therefrom.

As further shown in the portable wireless device may also include a plurality of sensors for sensing the mobile user s ambient conditions. The sensors shown include POSITIONING SENSOR TOUCH SENSOR AUDIO SENSOR COMPASS SENSOR AMBIENT LIGHT SENSOR AMBIENT TEMPERATURE SENSOR and THREE AXIS ACCELERATION SENSOR . The audio sensor can be a microphone for example which can detect speech or environmental sounds. The positioning sensor can be for example a GPS receiver integrated in the device. The positioning sensor can also be for example a radio beacon triangulation sensor that determines the location of the wireless device by means of a network of radio beacons base stations or access points as is described for example in Nokia European patent EP 0 767 594 A2 entitled Mobile Station Positioning System . These sensors provide inputs which are sampled by the wireless device to sense the user s environment and one or more of these sensor outputs may be utilized to infer a current context which may be used to provide recommendations to the user based on the user s environment. The portable wireless device may perform context inference techniques locally or may offload to the network server some of the computationally intensive computing involved in context inference techniques.

For example in one or more embodiments discussed herein as the user carries about the wireless device its sensors may automatically and continuously measure the geographic location and context of the device. The wireless device may periodically transmit the current context in a message over the wireless network to the network server . There are several types of messages each of which may be distinguished by its own unique op code. An op code is generally an operational code or instruction or command which may be employed to inform or instruct other devices or network components such as those discussed herein of the operation to be performed.

When the wireless device sends a message containing the current context the network server parses the op code and responds with information corresponding to the op code the information being related to the current context. If the op code indicates that the message is a spontaneous message which is automatically transmitted by the device then the network server may respond with information such as a service category menu or information such as recommended services along with their voice short cuts based on the current context or prepaid advertising of local services related to the current context.

As shown in the user s portable wireless device further includes a service history log or the like. The activities stored in the service history log may be divided into two major categories past recommendations made by the wireless device and or network server and services including their voice short cuts e.g. voice tags or equivalents thereof for voice recognition matching. The category of services may be broken into four sub categories past services used prestored service preferences special requested service requirements services and their associated voice short cuts. The term activities as used herein may refer to any of these categories and sub categories. The service history log may store five component databases 1 past recommendations and context 2 past services used and context 3 prestored service preferences 4 special requested service requirements and 5 services and voice short cuts. An example is shown in of the two component databases 1 past recommendations and context and 2 past services used and context. The voice short cuts may also be maintained along with the associated services in service log such as in the form of a voice XML tag.

When implementing distributed processing with the network server the wireless device can automatically send messages with a unique op code designating that the message is an automatically transmitted message containing the device s past recommendations and context or past services used and context in addition to the current context or other information for use in enabling voice short cut access to recommended services. In one or more embodiments the network server may parse the op code and uses the device s past recommendations and context or past services used and context to find similar service recommendations in its database. The network server then responds with information customized to the user s perceived interests the information being related to the current context. While the above discusses one approach to recommending services any user related filter criteria may be employed to determine recommendations personal to the user.

The user of the wireless device can also manually enter requests for menus and recommendations related to the current context. In any event the wireless device may then determine the service recommendations locally based on the current context and enable voice short cut access to such recommended services.

Alternatively the wireless device may send messages with a unique op code designating that the message is a manual request by the user containing the device s past recommendations and context or past services used and context in addition to the current context or other information for use in enabling voice short cut access to recommended services. The network server parses the op code and uses the device s past recommendations and context or past services used and context to find similar recommendations in its database consistent with the user s manual request. The network server then responds with information customized to the user s expressed interests the information being related to the current context. While the above discusses one approach to recommending services any user related filter criteria as discussed herein may be employed to determine customized or personalized recommendations to the user.

The service history log can accumulate data on past services used by the user of the device in several ways. The service history log can be programmed to capture on line transactions and activities such as ticket purchase information for services access of a particular service as well as its sub services and so forth. The service history log can also be programmed to monitor the dwell time of the device at scheduled events and to draw the inference that the user is in fact engaged in such an event. The event and the current context and if desired associated voice short cut s are then stored in the database 2 past services used and context in the service history log .

While the portable wireless device may be configured to perform the context recommendation and voice recognition processes alone one or more or all of these processes can be offloaded to one or more other network elements such as the network server . Accordingly depending on which processes are offloaded the network server may include context inference engine service and voice short cuts database voice tag generator such as voice tag generator discussed above recommendation algorithms or engine voice recognition engine and or context activity pairs database .

In one distributed system embodiment the wireless device provides recommendations to its user that are appropriate to the device s current environment by selecting an activity e.g. a category or sub category pairing it with the current context result and sending the context activity pair to the network server . The network server searches its database of recommendations using the context activity pair and returns recommendations to the user. While the portable wireless device and the network server may employ context activity pairs to determine recommended services other user related criteria and processes may be employed to ascertain preferred services desired to be accessed by the user. As such a relational database or look up table containing information on services voice short cuts and user related criteria can be maintained and updated accordingly to facilitate determination of recommendations and to enable voice short cuts to the user s likely preferred services.

Various embodiments showing how the processes to enable voice short cuts to preferred services may be distributed between the wireless device and the network server are discussed below with reference to .

The portable wireless device in combination with context inference engine are configured to determine a current context based on the user s current context which in turn may be inferred through temporal information from an internal clock or from a network device through sensory information from sensors of the device e.g. location sensor speed sensor light sensor sound sensor etc. such as a position of the user device through the user s activities through the setting or profile of the user or user s device and so forth. The portable wireless device in combination with the recommendation engine determine and recommend a subset of services from a plurality of services based on user related filter criteria such as the current context or other personal factors e.g. service usage history those services utilized the most by the user etc. . To reduce the workload of the wireless device the searchable range of services may be limited to past used services.

Once determined these recommended services may then be audibly or visibly outputted to the user for selection thereof by voice or other form of user input and such output may include information identifying the voice short cut s for one or more or each of the recommended services. For example visual output of voice short cut enabled services may be displayed in the form of an icon or other visual forms e.g. URL address to inform the user of the availability of such short cuts so as to assist the user in effectively utilizing such short cuts. This may also be accomplished as well by other output means such as audio output.

The user may thereafter input a command by voice or other input forms to select a service to be accessed from the subset of recommended services. When the input is a voice command the portable wireless device in combination with the voice recognition engine process the voice command to an appropriate a computer readable format such as for use by a speech decoder in performing comparisons or matching compare the processed voice command data to voice short cuts or the like of the recommended services and identify or select the service from the subset of recommended services with a voice short cut matching the user s voice command. Thereafter the portable wireless device such as through its micro browser accesses the selected recommended service of service provider automatically or upon a user command.

In operation after initiation of the micro browser by the user or upon some other triggering event the portable wireless device requests recommendations from the network server . The request may include other relevant information such as user related filter criteria or associated information in determining such criteria. The network server receives the request and any relevant information and determines a subset of recommended services from a plurality of services based on the user related filter criteria. These selections are then sent back to the wireless device and the device outputs audibly or visibly an indication of the availability of such recommended services through voice or other user input short cut. The voice short cuts for the recommended services may be forwarded by the network server or may be already stored locally for lookup on the portable wireless device .

The portable wireless device receives the user s voice command and performs voice recognition processing of the voice command to identify a service from the subset of recommended services with a voice short cut matching the user s voice command. Thereafter the wireless device such as via its micro browser accesses the selected service of service provider automatically or upon the user command.

In one operational example after initiation of the micro browser by the user or upon some other triggering event the portable wireless device may request service recommendations from the network server . The request may include other relevant information such us user related filter criteria or information for determining such criteria. The network server receives the request and any relevant information and determines a subset of recommended services from a plurality of services based on the user related filter criteria. These selections are then sent back to the wireless device and the device outputs audibly or visibly an indication of the availability of such recommended services through voice or other user input short cuts.

The portable wireless device then receives the user s voice command and passes corresponding voice command data to the network server which performs voice recognition processing of the voice command to identify a service from the subset of recommended services with a voice short cut matching the user s voice command. The network server then returns information on the identified service such as the service address e.g. URL of the service site operated by service provider or other service access information to the wireless device for access thereof. Alternatively the network server may act as an intermediary between the portable wireless device and the service provider of the identified service and access the identified service for the wireless device.

In an alternative example after initiation of the micro browser by the user or upon some other triggering event the portable wireless device receives a voice command from the user and forwards the voice command data to the network server along with other relevant information such as user related filter criteria e.g. context and or information for determining such criteria. The network server determines a subset of recommended services from a plurality of services based on the user related filter criteria. Thereafter the server via voice recognition processing identifies a service from the subset of recommended services with a voice short cut matching the user s voice command. The network server then returns information on the identified service which may include the service address e.g. URL of the service site operated by service provider to the wireless device for access thereof. Alternatively the network server may act as an intermediary between the portable wireless device and the service provider of the identified service and access the identified service for the wireless device.

In an operational example the portable wireless device determines recommended services based on user related criteria and audibly or visibly outputs these recommendations to the user. The portable wireless device then receives the user s voice command and forwards the voice command data to the network server along with other relevant information such us the information on the recommended services and or voice short cuts e.g. voice tags for such services.

The network server through voice recognition processing identifies a service from the subset of recommended services with a voice short cut matching the user s voice command. The network server then returns information on the identified service which may include the service address e.g. URL of the service site operated by service provider to the wireless device for access thereof. Alternatively the network server may act as an intermediary between the portable wireless device and the service provider of the identified service and access the identified service for the wireless device.

To facilitate ease of use as well as to explain various functions enabled on the portable wireless device a Recommendation Web Services menu may be provided and displayed on the browser of the device. An example of such a menu as well as other screen shots of recommended services will be discussed below with reference to .

In the user s portable wireless device includes the browser which displays the Recommendation Web Services menu to enable the user to navigate through the cards or pages being displayed and to select options that are programmed by the application programs . The browser of the user s wireless device displays a recommendation web services menu. The recommendation web services menu may provide the user with the following options to select A REQUEST A RECOMMENDATION B UPDATE PRIVACY FEATURES and C MANAGE CONTEXT ACTIVITY PROFILE.

Reference to illustrate an example of how processes to be implemented at the wireless device or the network server may be invoked through a menu selection such as the menu of . One or more of the processes to be discussed below particularly the recommendation related processes may alternatively be invoked upon initiation of browser upon a user command according to setting of the wireless device or some other triggering event.

As shown the option A to 1 SELECT A SERVICE CATEGORY invokes process in the user s device to RETRIEVE UPDATED SERVICE CATEGORY MENU as shown in . Process sends updated menu request message to process in the network server to UPDATE SERVICE CATEGORY MENU as shown in . The updated menu is returned in updated menu response message as shown in . The updated menu is displayed in the device s browser in . This same sequence of steps is automatically performed by the wireless device and the network server in response to the wireless device automatically transmitting messages with a unique op code designating that the message is an automatically transmitted message.

The option B to 2 SEND PAST RECEIVED RECOMMENDATIONS invokes process in the user s device to SEND CONTEXT PAST RECEIVED RECOMMENDATIONS as shown in . Process sends recommendation request message to process in the network server to PROVIDE NEW RECOMMENDATIONS CORRESPONDING TO PAST RECOMMENDATIONS as shown in . The recommendations are returned in recommendation response message as shown in . The recommendations are displayed in the device s browser in . This same sequence of steps is automatically performed by the wireless device and the network server in response to the wireless device automatically transmitting messages with a unique op code designating that the message is an automatically transmitted message.

The option C to 3 SEND PAST SERVICES USED invokes process in the user s device to SEND CONTEXT AND PAST SERVICES USED as shown in . Process sends recommendation request message to process in the network server to PROVIDE NEW RECOMMENDATIONS CORRESPONDING TO PAST SERVICES USED as shown in . The recommendations are returned in recommendation response message as shown in . The recommendations are displayed in the device s browser in . This same sequence of steps is automatically performed by the wireless device and the network server in response to the wireless device automatically transmitting messages with a unique op code designating that the message is an automatically transmitted message.

The option D to 4 SEND PRESTORED SERVICE PREFERENCES invokes process in the user s device to SEND CONTEXT AND PRESTORED SERVICE PREFERENCES in the prestored service preferences file as shown in . An example of prestored service preferences is shown displayed in the browser of . Process sends message to process in the network server to PROVIDE RECOMMENDATIONS CORRESPONDING TO SERVICE PREFERENCES. The recommendations are returned in message .

The option E to 5 ENTER SPECIAL SERVICE REQUIREMENTS invokes process in the user s device to SEND CONTEXT AND SPECIAL SERVICE REQUIREMENTS. An example of special service requirements is shown displayed in the browser of . Process sends message to process in the network server to PROVIDE RECOMMENDATIONS CORRESPONDING TO SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS. The recommendations are returned in message .

The option F to 6 CHANGE PRESTORED SERVICE PREFERENCES invokes process in the user s device to CHANGE PRESTORED SERVICE PREFERENCES. An example of a menu to change prestored service preferences is shown displayed in the browser of .

The option G to 7 CHANGE PRIVACY FILTER SETTINGS invokes process in the user s device to CHANGE PRIVACY FILTER SETTINGS. An example of a menu to change privacy filter settings is shown displayed in the browser of .

The option H to 8 LOCAL RECOMMENDATION invokes process in the user s device to initiate LOCAL RECOMMENDATION e.g. to determine service recommendations locally at the user s device. An example of a menu to initiate local recommendation is shown displayed in the browser of . The local recommendations may be determined from a database of a past used services or b downloaded services from a network server such as server . An example of service recommendations displayed on the browser is shown in .

The option I to 9 CHANGE VOICE SHORT CUT SETTINGS invokes process in the user s device to initiate CHANGE VOICE SHORT CUT SETTINGS. An example of a menu to initiate change in voice short cut settings is shown displayed in the browser of . These settings may include a downloading voice tags from server voice registry or other remote location b adding modifying and or deleting voice tag for a particular service c setting a language preference for voice tag e.g. English French Japanese etc. to facilitate voice recognition processing d setting voice tag output ON or OFF and so forth. While the above are discussed for voice tags these setting equally apply generally to voice short cuts.

As the user carries about the wireless device its sensors continuously measure the geographic location and context of the device which are compiled into a metadata vector representing the current context. The wireless device periodically transmits the current context in an updated menu request message shown in over the wireless network to the network server . The updated menu request message includes the network address of the server an op code value RQ MN that designates the message as an updated menu request message and an operand portion containing the current context. The network server of includes a server op code parser that interprets the op code value RQ MN as indicating that the message is an updated menu request message . In response the server op code parser invokes step of the server recommendation algorithms . Step gets from a database a list of services provided by regional advertisers corresponding to the current context of the device . Step flows to step which gets from a database a list of services provided by regional points of interest such as galleries monuments museums and the like corresponding to the current context of the device . Step flows to step where the list of services provided by regional advertisers and the list of services provided by regional points of interest are filtered for weather related and time related service categories eliminating those services that cannot be used by the user in the current context. For example night baseball is eliminated if the current context is daytime. Hiking a nature trail is eliminated if the current context is bad weather. Likewise in a digital service scenario electronic stock trading may be eliminated if the current context is nighttime. Step flows to step where the updated menu message is prepared. The updated menu message includes the network address of the device an op code RSP MN that designates the message as an updated menu server response message and operands. The operands include the updated menu . The updated menu is returned to the device in the updated menu response message as shown in . This same sequence of steps is automatically performed by the wireless device and the network server in response to the wireless device automatically transmitting messages with a unique op code designating that the message is an automatically transmitted message.

The device op code parser in interprets the op code value RSP MN as indicating that the message is an updated menu server response . In response the device op code parser invokes step of the device recommendation algorithms . Step stores and displays the updated menu in the device s browser in .

The user can initialize the device by entering special service requirements as shown in the browser of . Examples of special service requirements that can be stored in the service history log of device are 

The user can initialize the device by entering stored service preferences as shown in the browser of . Examples of stored service preferences that can be stored in the service history log of device are 

The user can initialize the device by entering privacy filter settings as shown in the browser of . Privacy filter settings are used to remove the user s private information from the messages sent by the device to the network server . Examples of privacy filter settings that can be stored in the device are 

The service history log in the user s device may store activities in five component databases 1 past recommendations and context 2 past services used and context 3 prestored service preferences 4 special requested service requirements and 5 services and voice short cuts. An example is shown in of the two component databases 1 past recommendations and context and 2 past services used and context . The embodiment of the database shown in uses extensible markup language XML files to provide a coherent view of the wide variety of data that can be used to characterize a contexts services recommendations and voice short cuts.

To specify the current context XML tags are used to categorize each type of context data that characterizes the current context. Each unit context data is delineated by a beginning tag and an ending tag forming an element. For example the element 10 degrees Celsius defines the category as temperature and specifies the data as 10 degrees Celsius . As another example the element 38 degrees 48 minutes North defines the category as geographic latitude and specifies the data as 38 degrees 48 minutes North . Another feature of XML is its ability to specify a hierarchy in the categories of data. For example geographic location is normally specified as both a latitude and a longitude. The categories of data for latitude and longitude can be thought of as child categories within the category for geographic location. XML expresses this hierarchy as follows 

A typical specification of the context for an activity stored in the service history log would be for example 

A typical specification of the voice short for service stored in the service history log may be for example 

By expressing the context in the service history log in XML the stored expression is both human and machine readable it defines the content and it defines the hierarchical structure of the content. XML also separates the appearance of the content from the structure of the content so that the content can be displayed in any format by using customized style sheets in each different type of display device. Extensible Stylesheet Language XSL can provide flexible document presentation enabling the content of an XML file to be displayed on the large display screen of a personal computer as well as in the browser . Messages exchanged between the wireless device and the network server can include XML files carried in the Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP messaging protocol or the SyncML synchronization protocol. For additional background on XML see the book by Heather Williamson XML The Complete Reference Osborne McGraw Hill 2001.

Both the wireless device and the network server may be configured to interpret the tags of the XML elements in the XML file in the same way. This can be accomplished by incorporating the same XML tag parser in both the device recommendation algorithms of the wireless device and in the server recommendation algorithms of the network server . In its simplest form the XML tag parser can be a simple string comparison function that searches the XML file for XML tag strings such as the beginning tag and the ending tag . When it finds the a particular beginning tag it gets the data located between the beginning tag and the ending tag and passes the data as location data to program subroutines that operate on location data. Such program subroutines include the database search routine in the server recommendation algorithms in the server that forms a query from the latitude and longitude data to search for recommendations for services in the database having similar or related to the latitude and longitude values.

Another way for both the wireless device and the network server to interpret the tags of the XML elements in the XML file in the same way is by means of a standard XML parser. The two principal standard XML parsers are the Simple API for XML SAX event based parser and the Document Object Model DOM tree based parser. The principal difference between them is in the way the XML data is made available to the client application such as the device recommendation algorithms . SAX is an event driven model wherein the client application is continuously notified as the XML document features are recognized by the parser. As the SAX parser reads an XML file it sends to the application program information from the XML file in real time. Each time the parser sees a beginning tag an ending tag character data or a processing instruction it reports it to the client application. The entire XML file does not have to be read before acting on the data at the beginning of the file. The entire document does not have to reside in memory which can be an advantage for the wireless device .

The Document Object Model DOM model parser is object based on the other hand wherein the entire XML document is parsed and stored as a hierarchical tree of objects that the client application can then randomly access. A document type definition DTD is available to both the wireless device and in the network server either being stored locally or at a server they can reference. A DTD is a set of declarations that specify the allowed order structure and meaning of the tags for a particular XML file. The XML file references the DTD that governs its order structure and meaning at a specified location such as the directory of the local filesystem and its filename as a handle. Standard XML parsers are part of many operating systems now available. A DOM tree based parser reads in the DTD and the XML file and converts the XML file into programming constructs accessible to the application logic. A document type declaration element must appear in the XML file to indicate the DTD to which the XML file complies and where to find it. It starts with . The example given below is DOCTYPE OBJECT xml directory object.dtd .

Each XML file begins with a processing instruction that gives information to an XML processor in both the wireless device and the network server . It starts with .

An example of a complete XML file specifying a past recommendation received by the device and the context in which it was received is shown in the following TABLE A which is the XML file taken from the service history log of .

An abbreviated example of a corresponding document type definition DTD that specifies the allowed order structure and meaning of the tags for a past recommendation XML file is shown in the following TABLE B. This is part of a file named object.dtd stored in the local filesystem directory named xml directory in both the wireless device and the network server . It illustrates for example that the PAST RECOMMENDATIONS element must include the NAME of the past recommended service and the CONTEXT in which it was recommended. The NAME element must include the HOSTNAME the SERVICENAME and the VOICETAG. The CONTEXT element must include the LOCATION the DATE the TIME the TEMPERATURE and the METAVECTOR containing the metadata vector characterizing the context of device. The LOCATION element must include latitude LAT the longitude LON and the altitude ALT of the device.

In a complete DTD for the XML file of TABLE A the data elements such as 38 degrees 48 minutes North would be specified in the DTD as to indicate that these elements are present and contain only data and do not contain other elements.

Great flexibility is provided by the use of XML to define the data to be included in the files of the five component databases of the service history log 1 past recommendations and context 2 past services used and context 3 prestored service preferences 4 special requested service requirements and 5 services and voice short cuts e.g. voice tags . These XML files can be readily identified accessed and their elements parsed to obtain the relevant data pertaining to each category. The meaning of the data is assured by its location in a known element type. The XML files themselves can be included in the messages exchanged between the wireless device and the network server . This can be seen in the following discussion of the process in the wireless device of to process the user s request or generally a request by the wireless device for a recommendation by gathering XML files of past received recommendations from the service history log and pairing them with the current context of the device. The context activity pair is then sent in a recommendation request message to the network server .

In the user selects the option 2 SEND PAST RECEIVED RECOMMENDATIONS. Then in the user selects the service category of GALLERIES from the service category menu . Then in step the wireless device receives the user s input and flows to step to get the current context. The process then flows to step to access the service history log for XML files of past received recommendations. The process then flows to step to apply privacy filter settings to the data in the XML files . For example step can remove any occurrence of the user s name the location of past recommendations the date of past recommendations the name of past service providers and the like. Then the recommendation request message is assembled. The recommendation request message includes the network address of the server an op code RQ REC 3 that designates the message as a recommendation request message and the operands. The operands include the current context expressed in a separate field as the metadata vector the past recommendation and context XML file and the prestored service preferences XML file . The wireless device then sends recommendation request message to the network server as shown in .

Other user preferences objects or combinations thereof instead of those shown above in Table C may also be employed e.g. NEWS etc.

The process then flows to step which updates usage statistics and stores them in a database. The process then flows to step which assembles the recommendation response message and transmits it back to the wireless device . The recommendation response message includes the network address of the wireless device the op code REC 3 that designates the message as a recommendation response message and the operands. The operands include the recommendations XML file .

The process then flows to step which optionally transfers the recommendations to the application programs for further processing. This same sequence of steps is automatically performed by the wireless device and the network server in response to the wireless device automatically transmitting messages with a unique op code designating that the message is an automatically transmitted message.

The process then continues to step in which the wireless device receives the user s voice command and identifies the service from the recommended services with a voice short cut matching the user s voice command. At step the wireless device accesses the identified service. For example the user may say the voice command Arts or any phonetic equivalent thereof to initiate access to the service Artsclub.com. As shown in the voice short for the recommended services may be received from the server as voice tags in an XML file.

The recommendations XML file providing two digital service recommendations for galleries is shown as the example XML file of TABLE D as follows 

An abbreviated example of a corresponding document type definition DTD that specifies the allowed order structure and meaning of the tags for a new recommendation XML file is shown in the following TABLE E. This DTD is part of a file named object.dtd stored in the local filesystem directory named xml directory in both the wireless device and the network server . It illustrates for example that new RECOMMENDATIONS sent to the wireless device must include NAME and LOCATION of the service but it does not include the complete CONTEXT. The NAME must include HOSTNAME SERVICENAME VOICETAG and the LOCATION must include ADDRESS AREA LAT LON. The DTD can provide for optional data in the XML file as well by including other elements such as and designating them with an asterisk so that they are not necessarily required in each XML file. The same XML tag parser in both the device recommendation algorithms of the wireless device and in the server recommendation algorithms of the network server can search the XML file for optional XML tag strings such as the beginning tag and the ending tag and if they are found the XML tag parser gets the data located between the tags and passes it as admission data to program subroutines that operate on admission data.

To enable the wireless device to read the XML recommendations file of TABLE D a DOM tree based parser in the device reads in the DTD of TABLE E and the XML file received from the network server . The DOM tree based parser converts the XML file into a hierarchical tree data structure enabling the data for each element to be accessible to the application programs and recommendation algorithms .

This process also works in reverse in the network server and enables the network server to construct the XML recommendations file . The DOM tree based parser can read in the DTD of TABLE E and create the hierarchical tree data structure that serves as a template for the recommendation algorithm in server . The recommendation algorithm can then fill the nodes of the tree with recommendation data such as ADDRESS data AREA data LAT data and LON data. The DOM tree based parser uses this newly created tree of data to create a corresponding XML recommendations file of TABLE D that conforms to the DTD of TABLE E. The recommendation algorithm and the DOM tree based parser in effect work together as a document generator. The Document Object Model DOM defines the characteristics of the XML file hierarchical tree data structure and an application programming interface API for manipulating it. A description of DOM is provided on the web site http www.w3.org TR DOM Level 2 Core . For additional information on the Document Object Model and the XML file hierarchical tree data structure see the book by Elliotte Harold et al entitled XML In A Nutshell O Reilly Associates 2001.

In an alternate embodiment the wireless device uses the SAX event driven parser and the network server uses the DOM tree based parser. This arrangement confers the advantage of requiring a smaller memory allocation for the SAX parser in the wireless device and yet it provides the capability of the DOM parser to construct the XML recommendations files in the network server .

In another alternate embodiment Extensible Hypertext Markup Language XHTML can be used to display if desired in the wireless device the recommendations and or voice tags of files in step which are received from the network server . XHTML is a hybrid between HTML and XML specifically designed for network device displays. A subset of XHTML is XHTML Basic which defines a document type that is rich enough to be used for content authoring and precise document layout yet can be shared with wireless mobile devices with small screens such as PDAs and cell phones. XHTML Basic is the mobile adaptation of XHTML and includes everything in XHTML except those capabilities such as frames that are not appropriate for devices with small screens. XHTML Basic is an XML based standard which allows the automatic parsing and transcoding of content through the use of Extensible Stylesheet Language Transformations XSLT part of the XSL style sheet language for XML. XSLT provides a language for transforming XML documents into other XML documents. Using XSLT a system can automatically transform the same XML content into multiple markup languages depending on the browser . Through such transformations content can be created for one type device and automatically transformed to appear on another type device. For example the network server can create its recommendations once in XML and use XSLT to dynamically convert it to XHTML Basic and HTML for presentation on mobile wireless devices .

XHTML Basic can used with cascading style sheets CSS to describe how documents are presented on screen in the browser . Through the use of CSS document authors can control the presentation of documents without sacrificing device independence. The use of well known standard HTML tags avoids storing multiple versions of content. The network server does not need to provide for extra overhead for transcoding required to prepare content for an array of different markup languages. CSS enables a document author to specify the presentation of an application once for each type of device by means of a corresponding style sheet. If the presentation needs to be changed at any time the change is made once in the style sheet and the modification is dynamically reflected throughout all the pages in the network server . CSS separates the content of the document from the presentation. This allows creating browser specific versions of the same content simply by creating a corresponding style sheet for each browser type. Then when a user requests a page at the wireless device the network server server identifies the requesting device and returns the content with a link to the appropriate style sheet. The style sheet is downloaded once and cached by the browser for use with subsequent pages which speeds the rendering of all pages received from the network server . CSS enables every aspect of the appearance of the document such as positioning fonts text attributes borders margin alignment and flow to be defined in the style sheet. A change to any aspect of the document s appearance needs to be made only once. CSS also gives carriers greater control over the look and feel of the services they provide through their wireless portal. The operator can use XHTML Basic to define a default style sheet for all devices it supports which will ensure a basic look and feel consistent for all devices .

Another example is when the user requests a location based recommendation with the device . As discussed above shows the service history log has accumulated data on past services used by the user of the device and the contexts of those past services. The recommendation algorithms automatically filters the service history log and selects past services used by the user of the device and the contexts of those past services treating them as context activity pairs. It is not necessary that these pairs of selected past services used and past contexts be related to the current context of the device . Two examples of these past pairs of selected past services used and past contexts are numbered 10 and 11 as follows 

The device then sends these two automatically selected past pairs to the network server . The recommendation algorithms filter out any reference to the user s ID before sending the pairs to the server. Then device then sends the current context location xyz3 to the network server . The current context xyz3 can represent the airport for example. When the network server receives the two example past pairs of selected past services used and past contexts it stores them in its database . Past pairs such as these can be accumulated from many users as recommendation resource in the database for use by many other users. Examples of nine other past pairs previously accumulated in database from other users are 

The network server compares the current context location xyz3 the past contexts of past pairs previously accumulated in database . There are four matches 

The network server sends a list of the four past services used by others taken from the list of the four matches as four recommendations to the user s device . The four recommendations are 

The recommendation algorithms in the user s device can filter these four recommendations received from the server if desired. The filtered recommendations are then output audibly or visually to the user and one or more of these recommendations can be selected by voice command or other input mechanism. Alternately the recommendations may be transparent to the user of the wireless device . The user s selected recommendations and the current context location xyz3 are then stored in the service history log . For example if the user selects by voice command or other user input means 

then this recommendation and the current context location xyz3 are stored in the service history log .

While the above discusses an example of location based recommendations recommendations may similarly be determined based on various user filter criterion which infer a context. As discussed herein these factors may include temporal variables e.g. time date day of the week daytime nightime etc. device settings e.g. profile of the wireless device or the user and so forth.

The wireless device then accesses recommendations from database corresponding to a current context at step and identifies database recommendations similar to past service used at step . At step the wireless device sorts similar database recommendations by user s service preferences.

Thereafter at step the wireless device audibly or visibly outputs the service recommendations to the user. The process continues at step with the wireless device receiving a voice command or other user input command . In the event of a voice input the wireless device performs voice recognition on the voice command to identify the service from the subset of recommended services with a voice short cut matching the voice command at step . At step the wireless device accesses the identified service. Further browsing of the service or control of the device via multi modal user input can be processed at step .

At step the wireless device receives a voice command from the user. At step the wireless device compares the voice command to the voice short cuts of the recommended services. At step the wireless device determines whether there are more than one service matches or only one service match. If there is only one service match then that service is accessed. If there is no match or the matching probability of all the voice short cuts are below are threshold then the voice command is ignored and the wireless device is reset to receive the voice command again. The threshold may be adjusted to adjust the sensitivity of the decoding as desired.

Otherwise if a plurality of services are matched then in one alternative the process proceeds to step in which a service is selected from the matching services according to the priority of the services. For example the matching service with the highest priority is selected. At step the wireless device accesses the selected service.

Alternatively the process may proceed to step in which an indication of the matching services is outputted to the user. The indication may take the form of the voice short cuts for the matching services. At step the wireless device receives and processes the user selection e.g. by voice key command and at step accesses the selected service.

Turning now to a functional block diagram is shown of the wireless device with its various components and programs. The memory of the wireless device is connected by means of the bus to the keypad the radio the speaker the microphone the sensor interface the central processor and the display which displays the browser . The input and output devices may be physically connected to other components of the wireless device such as the processor across the bus or at least one of the input device e.g. the voice input device and the output device e.g. the display device may interact with the processor or other components of the wireless device across a wireless short range link. For example the input device and the output device may be different ones.

The memory stores the context activity pair and service history log which is shown in greater detail in a first example in . The memory also stores the current context state which includes a description of the environment of the wireless device at the present time. As will be discussed further below the characterization of the environment of the wireless device may involve one or more variables e.g. location temporal variables user and device profile sensory input s etc. and may include generation of the metadata vector which includes information relating to the sensor signals input from the sensors at the current time. Also included in the memory are recommendation algorithms voice recognition engine voice response unit voice tag generator and WAP client program some of which will be discussed further below. Memory also stores other information such as the user or device profiles.

In addition or alternative to the context inference techniques such as based simply on temporal variables position variables device or user profile etc. employed in the recommendation operation the wireless device may be configured with a more complex context determination scheme referred herein as sensitive web services feature to enable a mobile phone or wireless PDA to use context inference techniques to sense the user s environment and in response to provide recommendations to the user that is appropriate to the user s environment and that can be accessed by the user s voice command or other form of user input. In the distributed network embodiment the feature offloads some of the computationally intensive computing necessary in context inference techniques recommendation techniques and or voice recognition techniques from the mobile user s wireless device to a server and to web sites on the Internet.

The context sensitive web services feature may also maintain a personal profile of the mobile user s personal preferences in an online server or web site. The mobile user is provided with the ability to control access by application programs in the wireless device to the user s private data. The context sensitive web services feature provide the mobile user with the ability to control any access to the user s profile by the online server or web site particularly where processing is offloaded from the wireless device to other network elements.

The mobile user s wireless device is equipped with a context inference engine for providing an awareness of the mobile user s context to application programs including third party applications. Since the processing power and storage capacity is limited in typical wireless devices the computational load and storage requirements of the context inference engine are distributed to a context inference server capable of processing the context data. This equally holds true in various embodiments in which other processing tasks such as service recommendation and voice recognition to enable voice based access to recommended services are offloaded to network elements.

The feature also enables the mobile user to control which application programs in the wireless device are granted access to the user s private context information. A privacy control block in the wireless device grants or revokes access by application programs to the private context information based on the mobile user s preferences stored in a privacy profile. The same privacy control and privacy profile is extended to the context inference server thereby enabling the extension of the user s privacy control to any web server connected to the context inference server. The feature thus enables building an infrastructure for context sensitive applications and services within the wireless device and the server while providing to the mobile user control over the privacy user s context information.

The Recommendation Web Services menu displayed by the browser in is rendered by the WAP client program under the control of the application programs which are shown in .

If sufficient computational power and storage capacity are available in the wireless device further processing of the metadata vector can take place in the context inference engine toward the objective of producing the result of an inferred current context. However if at some point in the computation the context inference engine needs the processing power or storage capacity available at the network server the metadata vector is sent from the wireless device to the context inference engine in the network server of . The context inference engine in the network server can perform the required processing on the metadata vector and then return it to the context inference engine in the wireless device for completion of the an inferred current context result. Alternately the context inference engine in the network server can complete the required processing and then return the resultant inferred current context to the wireless device .

In the Context Inference Engine in the wireless device makes inferences from all the sensor inputs based on where the wireless device is located by the mobile user. For instance the inferred current context of the device may be IN THE USER S POCKET when a certain set of sensors input a specific combination of signals having a specific value range. As an example the resulting inference of the current context by the Context Interference Engine could be expressed in XML language format as follows 

The Context Inference Engine in the wireless device can perform the context inference process with any of several methods. Different input information from the sensors can be weighted according to their relative value of importance appropriate for each environment condition or situation to be analyzed. Each sensor has it s own weight value. Alternatively the weight values for each sensor for each environment condition can be learned from training sessions using for example artificial neural networks ANNs self organizing maps SOMs decision trees fuzzy rule based systems or model based systems such as Hidden Markov Modeling HMM . Combinations of two or more of the alternate methods can be used depending on the application.

The Context Inference Engine can continuously adapt its weights through adaptive and continuous learning methods where the user teaches the wireless device new environment conditions and names them. Hidden Markov Modeling HMM can be used for example to implement an adaptive and continuous learning method for the Context Inference Engine . Alternately the wireless device can be programmed to spontaneously recognize a changed scene by comparing it with known scenes. The user can teach the wireless device new environmental conditions and name them using the adaptive and automatic learning capability of neural networks. Adaptive and continuous learning methods are computationally intensive and are appropriate candidates to place on the network server which assists the wireless device as discussed below.

The field of context inference has applied the principles of automated pattern recognition to processing diverse types sensor inputs. Speech recognition has been applied to processing speech signals and handwriting recognition has been applied to processing hand force and accelerometer signals. In the field of robotics image recognition has been applied to processing digitized still and motion images mechanical location recognition has been applied to processing laser and sonar range finder signals and mechanical motion recognition to has been applied to processing inertial acceleration and heading signals. In the field of prosthetic devices touch recognition has been applied to processing tactile sensor signals. In the field of medicine automated diagnostic programs recognize various pathologies by processing bioelectric field signals as well as the more traditional pulse respiration rate and body temperature signals. These diverse sensor signal recognition processes have the common feature that an initial training stage is conducted where sampled signals are equated with a statistical model for those signals.

The principles of automated pattern recognition for these diverse sensor inputs are exemplified by the techniques for recognizing speech patterns. A common technique used in speech recognition is Hidden Markov Modeling HMM . The term Hidden refers to the probabilistic and not directly observable events which underlie a speech signal. HMM speech recognition systems typically use realizations of phonemes which are statistical models of phonetic segments having parameters that are estimated from a set of training examples. Models of words are made by chaining or linking appropriate statistical models of phonetic segments. The statistical models serve as standards which are to be matched with the unknown voice signals to be recognized.

Recognition of unknown voice signals requires sampling and digitizing the speaker s spoken phonemes. These digitized phonemes are then processed into data suitable for analysis by a speech coder. The data is then compared with the standard statistical models of phonemes. The most likely matches are then the inferred speech recognition result.

Recognition consists of finding the most likely path through the set of word models for the input speech signal. HMM speech dependent recognition decoding systems first need to be trained through an iterative process. The system must be exposed to training examples or words of a particular speaker s voice. A training word is analyzed to generate a framed sequence of acoustic parameters or statistical models. A valid or good recognition occurs when the most likely path through the set of word models for the training word results in recognizing the correct training word.

Some useful references discussing the principles of Hidden Markov Models are Rabiner L. R. A tutorial on hidden Markov models and selected applications in speech recognition Proceedings of the IEEE volume 77 number 2 1989 pages 257 286. Rabiner L. R. and Juang B. H. An introduction to hidden Markov models IEEE ASSP Magazine January 1986 pages 4 15.

Fraser Andrew M. and Dimitriadis Alexis Forecasting Probability Densities by Using Hidden Markov Models with Mixed States Time Series Prediction Forecasting the Future and Understanding the Past Addison Wesley editor Weigend Andreas S. and Gershenfeld Neil A. 1994.

To illustrate how Hidden Markov Modeling HMM can be extended beyond speech recognition an example is given here for touch recognition. In the training stage for touch recognition tactile sensor signals are input from touching a tactile transducer to a rough texture such as for example sandpaper. The tactile sensor signals are transformed into a statistical model of the input signal. The statistical model is stored as a standard in a computer memory under the handle rough texture . To expand the range of sensor signals that are included in the model for rough texture several training sessions can be conducted each with a different direction or pressure for touching the sandpaper resulting in several different samples of the statistical model. The set of samples of the statistical model are stored as a standard under the handle rough texture . Other training sessions are conducted with a smooth texture such as glass. The tactile sensor signals input from touching the tactile transducer to the smooth texture are transformed into a statistical model of the input signal and stored as a standard under the handle smooth texture . Later in the recognition mode an unknown object is touched by the tactile transducer resulting in a sample tactile sensor signal. Recognition of unknown touch signals requires sampling and digitizing the touch transducer s signals. These digitized sensor signals are then processed into metadata. The metadata is then compared with the standard statistical models of rough texture and smooth texture . The most likely match is then the inferred touch recognition result.

Combinations of two or more types of sensors can have their signals combined into an input metadata vector that characterizes a composite sampling event. The composite sampling event can be recognized using the principles of Hidden Markov Modeling HMM . An example composite sampling event can be the state of the health and fatigue of the user of a wireless device . For example a wireless device can be equipped with a tactile transducer which outputs tactile sensor signals in response to the hand force and pulse rate of the user who is gripping the wireless device . The wireless device can be equipped with a temperature sensor which outputs body temperature signals in response to the user gripping the wireless device . Hidden Markov Modeling HMM can be used to recognize a force temperature input metadata vector that characterizes the combination of the hand force and the temperature sensor signals resulting from a sampling event. A composite sampling event in this example can have an extended duration so that the force sensor can transduce the pulse rate of the user over a period of time.

In the training stage the tactile sensor signals and the force sensor signals are output while the user is in a condition of good health and resting normally. The tactile sensor signals and the force sensor signals are combined into a force temperature input metadata vector which is transformed into a statistical model of the input signals. The statistical model is stored as a standard in the computer memory of the wireless device under the handle good health resting normally . Other training sessions are conducted with the user in different states of health and fatigue. For example the user may be training the wireless device while working late at night at the office. The tactile sensor signals and the force sensor signals resulting from holding the wireless device are combined into a force temperature input metadata vector for the user in the condition of being in good health but fatigued. The force temperature input metadata vector is transformed into a statistical model of the input signals and stored as a standard under the handle good health fatigued .

Later in the recognition mode as the user holds the wireless device the tactile sensor signals and the force sensor signals are sampled. The Health Fatigue State recognition consists of sampling and digitizing the touch transducer s signals. These digitized sensor signals are then processed into a metadata vector. The metadata vector is then compared with the standard statistical models of handle good health resting normally and good health fatigued . The most likely match is then the inferred touch recognition result.

In accordance with the feature this recognition result can be used by the recommendation engine in the wireless device or the server to determine recommended services from a plurality of services. For example the recommendation engine can process the recognition result and in response identify a subset of recommended services according to the health state or other inferred state of the user. One problem with automatic recognition programs is that they are either relatively large or they call databases that are relatively large in comparison to the memory capacity of the wireless device .

Returning to the relationship is shown between the network server the Universal Description Discovery and Integration UDDI registry and a plurality of web site servers . UDDI is a defacto standard for an Internet based registry. The UDDI registry enables the network server to discover new web sites for services and businesses on the Internet. Once such services and businesses are identified by the UDDI registry to the network server then the server must apply the mobile user s cached privacy profile in in order to prevent unauthorized access of the user s private data by application programs on the newly discovered web sites.

Voice tag registry in a similar fashion may enable discovery of voice tags or generally voice short cuts for various digital services on the Internet.

In the functional components of an exemplary network server are shown arranged as an object model. The object model groups the object oriented software programs into components that perform the major functions and applications in network server . The object model for memory of network server employs a three tier architecture that includes presentation tier infrastructure objects partition and business logic tier . The object model further divides business logic tier into two partitions application objects partition and data objects partition .

Presentation tier retains the programs that manage the device interfaces to network server . In presentation tier includes network interface . A suitable implementation of presentation tier may use Java servlets to interact with WAP protocol gateway via the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . The Java servlets ran within a request response server that manages the exchange of messages between WAP protocol gateway and network server . A Java servlet is a Java program that runs within a Web server environment. A Java servlet takes a request as input parses the data performs logic operations and issues a response back to WAP protocol gateway . The Java runtime platform pools the Java servlets to simultaneously service many requests. Network interface accepts request messages from WAP protocol gateway and passes the information in the request to visit object for further processing. Visit object passes the result of that processing to network interface for transmission back to the WAP protocol gateway . Network interface may also use network adapter to exchange data with another user device.

Infrastructure objects partition retains the programs that perform administrative and system functions on behalf of business logic tier . Infrastructure objects partition includes operating system and an object oriented software program component for database server interface and system administrator interface .

Business logic tier in includes multiple instances of visit object . A separate instance of visit object exists for each network interface session. Each visit object is a stateful session object that includes a persistent storage area from initiation through termination of the session not just during a single interaction or method call. The persistent storage area retains information associated with the session.

When WAP protocol gateway sends a metadata vector message to network server the message is sent to network interface to invoke a method that creates visit object and stores connection information as a state in visit object . Visit object may in turn invoke a method in context inference engine application to perform a context inference on the metadata vector and return a current context result.

When WAP protocol gateway sends a privacy control data message to network server the message is sent to network interface to invoke a method that creates visit object and stores connection information as a state in visit object . Visit object may in turn invoke a method in privacy control application to update the cached privacy profile .

When WAP protocol gateway sends a context activity pair message to network server the message is sent to network interface to invoke a method that creates visit object and stores connection information as a state in visit object . Visit object may in turn invoke a method in context activity pair recommendations application . Application compares four types of activities in the context activity pairs received from the wireless device with the recommendations in the database 1 past recommendations 2 past services used 3 prestored service preferences and 4 special requested service requirements. Application may in turn make a method call to context activity recommendations usage statistics application .

When WAP protocol gateway sends a metadata vector message of the user s voice command to network server the message is sent to network interface to invoke a method that creates visit object and stores connection information as a state in visit object . Visit object may in turn invoke a method in voice recognition engine application to perform voice recognition on the metadata vector and return a selected service indication identifying the recommend service corresponding to the user s voice command.

A description of server programming applications developed with Enterprise Java Beans is provided in the book by Ed Roman entitled Mastering Enterprise Java Beans published by John Wiley and Sons 1999. A description of the use of an object model in the design of server applications is provided in the book by Matthew Reynolds entitled Beginning E Commerce Wrox Press Inc. 2000 ISBN 1861003986 . Java servlets and the development of web site servers is described in the book by Duane K. Fields et al. entitled Web Development with Java Server Pages published by Manning Publications Co. 2000.

The user s Wireless Application Protocol WAP enabled portable wireless device accesses a small file called a deck which is composed of several smaller pages called cards which are small enough to fit into the display area of the device s browser . The small size of the browser and the small file sizes accommodate the low memory constraints of the portable wireless device and the low bandwidth constraints of a wireless network . The cards are written in the Wireless Markup Language WML which is specifically devised for small screens and one hand navigation without a keyboard. The WML language is scaleable from two line text displays on the browser of a cellular telephone up through large LCD screens found on smart phones and personal communicators. The cards written in the WML language can include programs written in WMLScript which is similar to JavaScript but makes minimal demands on memory and CPU power of the device because it does not contain many of the unnecessary functions found in other scripting languages.

The Nokia WAP Client Version 2.0 is a software product containing the components necessary to implement the WAP client on the wireless device . These components include a Wireless Markup Language WML Browser WMLScript engine Push Subsystem and Wireless Protocol Stack. The Nokia WAP Client is a source code product that can port and integrate into wireless devices such as mobile phones and wireless PDAs. Application programs stored in the wireless device interact with the WAP Client to implement a variety of communications applications. Details of the Nokia WAP Client Version 2.0 can be found in the online paper Nokia WAP Client Version 2.0. Product Overview Nokia Internet Communications 2000 www.nokia.com corporate wap.

The WAP Client includes the Wireless Public Key infrastructure PKI feature providing the infrastructure and the procedures required for authentication and digital signatures for servers and mobile clients. Wireless PKI is a certificate based system that utilizes public private key pairs associated with each party involved in a mobile transaction. Wireless Identity Module WIM is a security token feature of the WAP Client which includes security features such as the public and private keys and service certificates needed for user authentication and digital signatures. Additionally it has the ability to perform cryptographic operations to encrypt and decrypt messages.

The WAP protocol gateway links the Internet and the wireless network . The WAP protocol gateway includes the Wireless Public Key infrastructure PKI feature to help provide a secure Internet connection to the wireless device . The WAP protocol gateway enables the WAP enabled wireless device to access Internet applications such as headline news exchange rates sports results stock quotes online travel and banking services or to download distinctive ringing tones.

The user s WAP enabled portable wireless device communicates with the wireless access point and can exchange messages for distances up to several kilometers. The types of wireless networks supported by the WAP standard include Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Time Division Multiple Access TDMA GPRS 3G Broadband and the like.

The overall process of communication between the user s WAP enabled wireless device the client through the WAP protocol gateway to the server resembles the way Web pages are served on the Internet using the HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP or World Wide Web protocol 

 1 The user presses a phone key on the user s device related to the Uniform Resource Locator URL of the server .

 2 The user s device sends the URL via the wireless access point and the wireless network to the gateway using WAP protocols.

 3 The gateway translates the WAP request into an HTTP request and sends it over the Internet to the server via Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP interfaces.

 4 The server handles the request just like any other HTTP request received over the Internet. The server either returns a WML deck or a HyperText Markup Language HTML page back to the gateway using standard server programs written for example in Common Gateway Interface CGI programs Java servlets or the like.

 5 The gateway receives the response from the server on behalf of the user s device . If the response is an HTML page it gets transcoded into WML if necessary. Then the WML and WMLScript coding is encoded into a byte code that is then sent to the user s device .

 6 The user s device receives the response in the WML byte code and displays the first card in the deck on the browser to the user.

In the protocol gateway includes a WAP protocol stack organized into five different layers. An application layer is the wireless application environment which executes portable applications and services. A session layer is the wireless session protocol which supplies methods for the organized exchange of content between client server applications. A transaction layer is the wireless transaction protocol which provides methods for performing reliable transactions. A security layer is the wireless transport layer security which provides authentication privacy and secure connections between applications. The transport layer is the wireless datagram protocol which shelters the upper layers from the unique requirements of the diverse wireless network protocols such as CDPD CDMA GSM etc. Additional information about the WAP standard and the WAP protocol stack can be found in the book by Charles Arehart et al. entitled Professional WAP published by Wrox Press Ltd. 2000 ISBN 1 861004 04 1 .

If the user does not wish to voice tag the service the process proceeds to access the service at step . If the user desires to voice tag the service the process proceeds to step and requests and receives a user input corresponding to the desired voice tag. For speech independent voice recognition this user input may simply be a word or phrase inputted by key command. At step the wireless device processes the input data to computer readable data suitable for use in comparison in voice recognition processing. At step the wireless device associates the inputted word or phrase i.e. voice short cut to the service or service address. At step the wireless device stores this association in a database such as the service history log or a dictionary to enable future use thereof as a voice short cut to the service. The process then continues to step in which the service is accessed. The wireless device may further at a step send the association to the network server to update the server on the new association.

An operational example of wireless device employing locally or remotely a service recommendation subsystem in combination with voice recognition subsystem is discussed below with reference to . A user initiates a browsing operation via the browser to trigger a recommendation process to be performed locally at the wireless device or remotely at network server . In either case a subset of recommended digital services are determined from a plurality of digital services which may be quite a large set based on user related filter criteria such as a current context. The subset of recommended services reflects those services the user would likely desire preferably with a high probability in the current context.

For instance a user such as a business person operating his or her wireless device between 11 00 AM 2 00 PM or on Wall St. or during the daytime or at a temperature between 15 C. 25 C. or at a speed between 0 50 kph or a combination thereof may be provided with the following recommended services 

The recommended services may be outputted audibly and or visibly in a menu form if desired to the user or may be transparent to the user e.g. not outputted . Thereafter the user gives the following voice browsing command host service fl forum news . The voice recognition engine identifies the host and service commands by comparing the commands to the limited set of most probable host and service alternatives and informs the browser which service should be loaded e.g. wap.fl forum.com news.wml.

One example of such a menu is shown in in which both the host and service names are displayed for selection by the user. Another example of such a menu is shown in in which shows an initial menu of the host names of the recommended services and shows a subsequent menu of the service name of the selected host name. In this example the user may access the home page of a service site by an initial voice command and then browse the service extensions of the site through addition voice commands. Such an arrangement provides a multi layered voice access arrangement to reduce further the range of voice short cuts to be processed as well as providing multi modal input functionality in initial service access and subsequent browsing.

The voice recognition can be performed without voice tags or optionally the voice recognition task can be made easier by pre loading voice tags from the appropriate services. Voice tags can be used by the voice recognition engine to identify the spoken host and service commands. The number of alternatives presented to the voice recognition engine by the recommendation sub system depends on the capability of the voice recognition engine. In some cases the alternatives presented to the voice recognition engine could include all the services the user has ever visited. The recommendation sub system may also attach prior service access probabilities for each service.

In a further example a voice command may match multiple voice short cuts to different recommended services. In such a case wireless device may provide the user with a list of matching short cuts from which the user can select the correct short cut to access the desired service.

For instance a user operating a wireless device has been actively checking stock quotes for the following three stocks Nokia Ericsson Motorola. The voice short cuts for these prior services may be the following or possibly the corresponding phonetic expression 

The user inputs a voice command Yahoo stock quote to the wireless device . Since the voice command matches partly with three different short cuts the wireless device outputs visually or audibly a list of matching short cuts to the user as follows 

The identification of the short cuts identifies the recommended services and as importantly allows the user to become familiar with the voice short cuts for various services.

Thereafter the user may select a correct or desired alternative from the list of matching short cuts and obtains the selected service. The user may make the selection via voice command key command or other well known user input command. For example the user may employ the voice command Nokia or Yahoo stock quote Nokia to obtain the stock quote for Nokia from the Yahoo site or may enter a key command corresponding to desired service from the list.

In another example the user has been actively checking via the wireless device the following web pages 

The user inputs a voice command news to the wireless device . Since the voice command matches partly with five different short cuts the wireless device outputs visually or audibly a list of matching short cuts to the user as follows.

Alternatively if the user inputs a voice command Yahoo news the wireless device may output visually or audibly a list of three matching short cuts to the user as follows 

In another alternative if the user inputs a voice command news business the wireless device may output visually or audibly a list of two matching short cuts to the user as follows 

Accordingly in the situation in which a voice command matches a plurality of the recommended services the wireless device may be configured to output an indication of the matched services for selection by the user. The indication of the matched services may take the form of voice short cuts corresponding thereto.

Although a specific embodiment of the feature has been disclosed it will be understood by those having skill in the art that changes can be made to the specific embodiment without departing from the spirit and the scope of the feature.

Although specific embodiments of the invention have been disclosed it will be understood by those having skill in the art that changes can be made to that the specific embodiments without departing from the spirit and the scope of the invention.

