---

title: Systems and methods for messaging, calling, digital multimedia capture and payment transactions
abstract: Provided are methods and systems for providing compensation for using a mobile payment service. The method may commence with receiving payment information associated with a user. The method may include generating a unique code encoding the payment information and providing the generated unique code to the user. The method may continue with receiving a deposit amount associated with a purchase related to the user. The purchase may be made via the mobile payment service. The method may further include receiving a notification about a further purchase of the user via the mobile payment service. The notification may include at least the unique code and a product barcode. The product barcode may be associated with the further purchase. The method may further include providing a compensation from the deposit amount to the user. The compensation may be associated with a payment amount associated with the further purchase.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09652758&OS=09652758&RS=09652758
owner: 
number: 09652758
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20161107
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 957 644 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MOBILE APPLICATION WEARABLE APPLICATION TRANSACTIONAL MESSAGING CALLING DIGITAL MULTIMEDIA CAPTURE AND PAYMENT TRANSACTIONS filed Dec. 3 2015 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 489 671 granted on Nov. 8 2016 which is continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 815 988 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MOBILE APPLICATION WEARABLE APPLICATION TRANSACTIONAL MESSAGING CALLING DIGITAL MULTIMEDIA CAPTURE AND PAYMENT TRANSACTIONS filed Aug. 1 2015 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 342 829 granted on May 17 2016. This application is continuation in part of Ser. No. 13 760 214 entitled WEARABLE PERSONAL DIGITAL DEVICE FOR FACILITATING MOBILE DEVICE PAYMENTS AND PERSONAL USE filed Feb. 6 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 016 565 granted on Apr. 28 2015 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This application relates generally to data processing and more specifically to methods and systems for messaging calling capturing multimedia and payment transactions for mobile and wearable devices.

Personal digital communication devices such as smartphones are evolving rapidly and more and more people prefer using personal digital communication devices for a numerous purposes. One of such purposes is to capture details of everyday life such as to record photo video audio and the like multimedia content. Typically before capturing the multimedia content the user has to select a particular type of the multimedia content to be captured. Such selection may take additional time and a particular moment that the user intended to capture may be missed. Furthermore switching between different modes of the personal digital communication devices any time when the user wants to capture another type of multimedia content may be annoying for the user. The user may want to share the captured multimedia content e.g. by sending the content via e mail or posting the content in a user account in an online social network.

Another purpose of personal digital communication devices is to send messages to other users of personal digital communication devices. Current mobile operators enable sending text image or audio messages but such kinds of service are chargeable. Furthermore sending a file having a big size e.g. a video file can be problematic due to restriction of mobile operators as to the maximum size of a file to be sent. Furthermore current messaging clients offering real time text transmission over the Internet are supposed for a certain operation system. However communication between users having different operation systems may be problematic.

Although available mobile operators or messaging clients for example Facebook Messenger Viber Line Kakao Talk Snapchat Skype WhatsApp Messenger solve the problem of sending various types of multimedia messages they do not provide any means for performing transactions between users. The users need to use a separate software or browser based client for making payments. Additionally the users may have to pay a transfer fee for each payment.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Provided is a method for multimedia capture and payment transactions for mobile and wearable devices. According to the method a first user input may be received. Based on the first user input one or more sensors may be initiated to capture multimedia to obtain captured multimedia. The method may further comprise receiving a second user input. The one or more sensors may stop capturing multimedia after receiving the second user input. Upon receiving the second user input data associated with the first user input and the second user input may be analyzed. The analysis may include determining time between the first user input and the second user input. Based on the analysis a multimedia capture mode or a payment transaction mode may be selectively selected. If the multimedia capture mode is selected the captured multimedia may be recorded to a database to obtain recorded multimedia. A type of the multimedia being recorded is determined based on the time between the first user input and the second user input. If the payment transaction mode is selected transaction data may be received. The transaction data may comprise at least a payment amount and a recipient. Based on the transaction data user payment data and recipient payment data a payment transaction may be performed. The user payment data and the recipient payment data may be stored in the database.

Provided also is a system for multimedia capture and payment transactions for mobile and wearable devices. The system may comprise one or more processors. The processors may be operable to receive a first user input. Based on the first user input the processors may be operable to initiate one or more sensors to capture multimedia to obtain captured multimedia. The processors may be further operable to receive a second user input. Upon receipt of the second user input the processors may analyze data associated with the first user input and the second user input. The analysis may include determining time between the first user input and the second user input. Based on the analysis a multimedia capture mode or a payment transaction mode may be selectively selected. If the multimedia capture mode is selected the processors may be operable to record the captured multimedia to a database to obtain recorded multimedia. A type of the multimedia being recorded may be determined based on the time between the first user input and the second user input. If the payment transaction mode is selected the processors may be operable to receive transaction data. The transaction data may comprise at least a payment amount and a recipient. Based on the transaction data user payment data and recipient payment data the processors may be operable to perform the payment transaction. The user payment data and the recipient payment data may be stored in the database. The database may comprise computer readable instructions for execution by the one or more processors.

Provided is also a messaging calling and payment system for mobile and wearable devices and methods of using thereof. The messaging calling and payment system may comprise a processor and a database communicatively coupled to the processor. The processor may be configured to receive transaction data from a user. The transaction data may include at least a payment amount and a recipient. Based on the transaction data user financial data and recipient financial data a transaction request may be generated. The user financial data and the recipient financial data may be received from the database. The transaction request may be provided to the recipient via a display of a mobile or wearable device related to the recipient. A response to the transaction request may be received from the recipient. The response may include either a transaction confirmation or a transaction cancellation. If the transaction request is confirmed a transaction associated with the transaction request may be performed. If the transaction request is canceled the transaction may be not performed and a corresponding notification is sent to the user.

In further exemplary embodiments modules subsystems or devices can be adapted to perform the recited steps. Other features and exemplary embodiments are described below.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the presented concepts. The presented concepts may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations have not been described in detail so as to not unnecessarily obscure the described concepts. While some concepts will be described in conjunction with the specific embodiments it will be understood that these embodiments are not intended to be limiting.

Various computer implemented methods and systems for messaging calling multimedia capture and payment transactions for mobile and wearable devices are described herein. Recent proliferation of mobile communication devices e.g. a mobile phone a smartphone a tablet personal computer PC a laptop a wearable personal digital device and other similar devices that are capable of capturing data and transmitting the data via a network allows implementing these methods and systems. Most users of mobile and wearable devices enjoy capturing different multimedia content e.g. image audio video and the like and sharing the captured multimedia content with friends of the user in a social network. Additionally performing payments using mobile and wearable devices is widely used and allows users to transfer a payment fast without visiting financial institutions such as banks.

According to the methods and systems of the present disclosure a haptic control may be used to select a multimedia capture mode or a payment transaction mode of a mobile and wearable device associated with the user. More specifically a touch engagement of a user finger with a touch display of the mobile and wearable device such as a smartphone can be used. Furthermore during the multimedia capture mode one or more particular types of multimedia can be captured. The particular types of multimedia include image audio video animation text and the like. More specifically when the user wishes to select a multimedia capture mode or a payment transaction mode the user starts interaction with the touch display of the mobile and wearable device. The user may touch the touch display and hold contact of the user finger or stylus for a certain amount of time. A processor of the mobile and wearable device may receive a signal about contact of the user finger with the touch display. The processor may consider the contact of the user finger with the touch display as a command to start capturing multimedia content. The processor may send a command to a sensor such as a camera of the mobile and wearable device to capture video.

After the certain amount of time the user may stop touching the touch display. The processor may receive signal about absence of the touch contact of the user finger with the touch display. The processor may send a command to the sensor to stop capturing video. Furthermore the processor may determine the duration of the touch contact of the user finger with the touch display. Based on the duration of the touch contact the processor may initiate the multimedia capture mode or the payment transaction mode. The multimedia capture mode may have several submodes such as a video capture mode an image capture mode an audio capture mode a text capture mode an animation capture mode and the like. More specifically each of the multimedia capture submodes and the payment transaction mode may correspond to certain duration of the touch contact. When the duration of the touch contact corresponds to the multimedia capture submode the captured video is processed to obtain a particular type of multimedia. In other words the captured video is processed to obtain text image audio animation and the like.

When the duration of the touch contact corresponds to the payment transaction mode the user may be asked to provide transaction data for example a recipient and a payment amount. The user may enter the transaction data or use the transaction data stored in a memory of the mobile and wearable device or the transaction data stored on a server.

The duration of touch contact of the user finger with the touch display may be preliminary determined for initiating capturing each type of multimedia and for initiating the payment transaction. As an example during touch contact of the user finger with the touch display a pictogram representing the type of the multimedia corresponding to the current contact time may be shown on the display. Similarly when the current contact time corresponds to the payment transaction mode a pictogram associated with performing payment transactions may be shown on the display. The duration of touch contact for capturing each type of multimedia and for payment transactions may be selected by the user or preset by the processor.

Furthermore the methods and system of the present disclosure refer to a cross platform instant messaging subscription service for mobile and wearable devices. A cross platform application can be directly run on any platform without special preparation. In particular the cross platform instant messaging subscription service may run on Android iOS BlackBerry OS Symbian Windows Phone and so forth. Instant messaging provides for real time text transmission over the Internet. The cross platform instant messaging subscription service uses the same network the users use for email communication and web browsing. Therefore the cross platform instant messaging subscription service allows the users to exchange messages without having to pay mobile operators for message transmission. The messages that can be sent by the users include text image audio video geographical location massages and so forth. The users can pay a subscription price to have an access to the service for a certain period of time. In example embodiments the message communication is provided using a free cross platform messaging service a free Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP service a free Over the Top OTT service and so forth.

The messaging calling and payment system enables registered users to send and receive payments. The mobile payment service may be associated with a virtual currency and provide virtual currency transactions between users. The mobile payment service enables worldwide peer to peer transactions between the users.

The virtual currency of the mobile payment service may be an encrypted currency that may use cryptography to control creation and transfer of the currency. In order to increase security of the currency the currency may be customized according to user personal data. For example the user sends a currency request to the mobile payment service. In response to the currency request the mobile payment service creates virtual currency associated with the user. In particular user personal data can be present on the virtual currency for example an image of a user face can be provided on the virtual currency. Such currency having the user face printed on it can be referred to as universal digital mobile and wearable device currency faces or currency faces .

The methods described herein may be performed by any mobile devices with wireless communication capabilities. In addition to being capable of transmitting voice based signals many modern cell phones have internet connectivity using cellular networks e.g. 3G 4G as well as Wi Fi and other types of networks.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates an environment within which a method and a system for multimedia capture and payment transactions can be implemented. The environment may include a network a user a mobile and wearable device associated with the user a recipient a mobile and wearable device associated with the recipient a system for multimedia capture and payment transactions and a database . The mobile and wearable and the mobile and wearable may include a mobile phone a lap top a PC a tablet PC a smart phone a wearable personal digital device a wearable eyeglass communication device a handheld computing device a smartphone a tablet computer a personal digital assistant a e textile item an art activity tracker a smartwatch smartglasses a Global Positioning System GPS watch a mixed reality device a computer mediated reality device a clothing technology device and a wearable device and so forth. The mobile and wearable may a band adapted to secure the mobile and wearable on a human body the human body including a wrist an arm a neck a head a leg a waist an ear a finger and any other part of the human body. The band may be adapted to secure the mobile and wearable under within or on clothing and wherein the band includes a rechargeable battery configured to power the mobile and wearable .

The network may include the Internet or any other network capable of communicating data between devices. Suitable networks may include or interface with any one or more of for instance a local intranet a PAN Personal Area Network a LAN Local Area Network a WAN Wide Area Network a MAN Metropolitan Area Network a virtual private network VPN a storage area network SAN a frame relay connection an Advanced Intelligent Network AIN connection a synchronous optical network SONET connection a digital T1 T3 E1 or E3 line Digital Data Service DDS connection DSL Digital Subscriber Line connection an Ethernet connection an ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network line a dial up port such as a V.90 V.34 or V.34 bis analog modem connection a cable modem an ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode connection or an FDDI Fiber Distributed Data Interface or CDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface connection. Furthermore communications may also include links to any of a variety of wireless networks including WAP Wireless Application Protocol GPRS General Packet Radio Service GSM Global System for Mobile Communication CDMA Code Division Multiple Access or TDMA Time Division Multiple Access cellular phone networks GPS Global Positioning System CDPD cellular digital packet data RIM Research in Motion Limited duplex paging network Bluetooth radio or an IEEE 802.11 based radio frequency network. The network can further include or interface with any one or more of an RS 232 serial connection an IEEE 1394 Firewire connection a Fiber Channel connection an IrDA infrared port a SCSI Small Computer Systems Interface connection a USB Universal Serial Bus connection or other wired or wireless digital or analog interface or connection mesh or Digi networking. The network may include a network of data processing nodes that are interconnected for the purpose of data communication.

The user may include a person that performs capturing multimedia sending multimedia messages and performs transaction of payments to the recipient . The user may use haptic control to select a multimedia capture mode or a payment transaction mode on the mobile and wearable device . The multimedia may include different multimedia types such as text image audio video animation and the like. The payment may be associated with digital currency. The captured multimedia and payment data may be stored in the database .

The user may capture multimedia and send the multimedia message including the captured multimedia to the recipient . The recipient may use the mobile and wearable device to receive and review the multimedia message received from the user . In an example embodiment the user may send the multimedia message to an e mail address a social network account or the like of the recipient .

Furthermore the user may select an amount of payment to be transferred to the recipient and send a transfer request to the system for multimedia capture and payment transactions. The system for multimedia capture and payment transactions may transfer the amount of the payment to the mobile and wearable device .

A payment transaction may be based on one or more of the following based on Unstructured Supplementary Service Data USSD Short Message Service SMS direct operator billing a credit card mobile payment an online wallet a Quick Response QR code payment contactless near field communication a cloud based mobile payment an audio signal based payment a Bluetooth Low Energy BLE signal beacon payment an in application payment a social networking payment a trade token payment a merchant token payment a currency token payment a direct carrier and bank co operation and so forth.

At operation based on the first user input one or more sensors may be initiated to capture multimedia. As a result captured multimedia may be obtained. In an example embodiment the captured multimedia may include video. All types of multimedia may be derived and recorded from the captured multimedia i.e. from the captured video. More specifically the text may be recorded from the captured video based on one or more of text recognition and speech recognition. The image may be recorded from the captured video by selecting a frame in the captured video and storing the frame as an image. The audio may be recorded from the captured video by storing an audio content of the captured video. The animation may be recorded from the captured video by selecting two or more frames in the captured video. The selected frames may be cycled to obtain several images shown one after another. After the last image the first image may be shown to obtain a continuous animation.

The method may continue with receiving by the one or more processors a second user input at operation . In an example embodiment the second user input may include touch release of the user from the display of the mobile and wearable device. After receiving the second user input the one or more sensors may be stopped. Therefore capturing the multimedia may be stopped after receiving the second user input.

Upon receiving the first user input and the second user input data associated with the first user input and the second user input may be analyzed at operation . The analysis may be based on determining time between the first user input and the second user input.

Based on the analysis a multimedia capture mode or a payment transaction mode may be selectively selected at operation . More specifically the multimedia capture mode and the payment transaction mode may correspond to a particular predetermined time between the first user input and the second user input.

If the multimedia capture mode is selected at operation the method may continue with operation at which multimedia may be recorded to a memory to obtain recorded multimedia. A type of the multimedia being recorded may be determined based on the time between the first user input and the second user input. In an example embodiment the type of the multimedia may include text video image audio animation and the like. Optionally the method may further comprise sending the recorded multimedia to the recipient. In an example embodiment the user may select the recipient from a contact list stored on the mobile and wearable device.

If the payment transaction mode is selected at operation the method may continue with operation at which transaction data may be received. In an example embodiment the user may be requested to provide the transaction data. The transaction data may comprise at least a payment amount and a recipient. In an example embodiment the recipient payment data may include one or more of recipient bank account data recipient debit card data recipient credit card data a recipient phone number recipient virtual currency wallet data and the like. The recipient may be selected from a contact list a list of recent calls a list of recent transactions on the mobile and wearable device of the user and the like.

At operation a payment transaction may be performed based on the transaction data user payment data and recipient payment data. The user payment data and the recipient payment data may be stored in a database. In an example embodiment the payment transaction may include transferring a payment from a payment account associated with the user to a payment account associated with a recipient. The recipient payment data may be encrypted by assigning a unique key which is sent to an encryption verification unit having a key storage.

In a further example embodiment the payment transaction may be performed in a digital currency. The digital currency may be customized according to personal data of the user or personal data of the recipient. The customization may include printing an image on the digital currency. The image may include an image of a user face. In some embodiments to provide the digital currency with an artistic value the image may be an image of a public figure a fashion designer a movie character and so forth. The user may select his portrait for printing on the digital currency. The image of the user face may be stored in a memory of the mobile and wearable device of the user or on a remote server. Alternatively the user may capture an image of the user face using a camera of the mobile and wearable device of the user.

After performing the transaction the method may optionally comprise receiving a currency conversion request from the recipient. In response to the currency conversion request the digital currency received from the user may be converted into a digital currency associated with the recipient. In particular the conversion may include replacing the image of the use face on the digital currency with an image of a recipient face. The image of the recipient face may be stored in a memory of the mobile and wearable device of the recipient or on a server. Alternatively the recipient may capture an image of the recipient face using a camera of the mobile and wearable device of the recipient.

The method may optionally comprise modifying the recorded multimedia. Thereby the modified multimedia can be obtained. In an example embodiment the modifying may include one or more of the following creating voices for online video games and avatars voice disguising for anonymity over the radio or internet changing voices for voiceovers and audio projects modify user voice based on user preferences such as make the voice sound like a man woman or a child and so forth. Furthermore audio effects can be applied to any multimedia files existing on the mobile and wearable of the user. In a further example embodiment the method may optionally comprise applying audio effects to the multimedia during the capture of multimedia e.g. using a microphone. The recorded multimedia may be converted into Encrypted Trusted Data Format ETDF .

The system may further comprise one or more processors . The processor may be operable to receive a first user input. In an example embodiment the first user input includes touch engagement of the user with a display of the mobile and wearable device.

Based on the first user input the processor may be operable to initiate the one or more sensors to capture multimedia. In an example embodiment the captured multimedia includes video. The processor may be further operable to receive a second user input. In an example embodiment the second user input includes touch release of the user from a display of the mobile and wearable device. Based on the second user input the processor may be operable to stop the one or more sensors thereby stopping capturing the multimedia. In an example embodiment the processor may be further operable to analyze data associated with the first user input and the second user input. The analysis may include determining time between the first user input and the second user input. Based on the analysis the processor may be operable to selectively select a multimedia capture mode or a payment transaction mode.

In an example embodiment if the multimedia capture mode is selected the processor may be operable to record multimedia to obtain recorded multimedia. A type of the multimedia being recorded may be determined based on the time between the first user input and the second user input. The type of the multimedia may include text video image audio animation and the like. In example embodiments the captured multimedia may include video. The text may be recorded from the captured video based on text recognition and speech recognition. The image may be recorded from the captured video by selecting a frame in the captured multimedia. The audio may be recorded from the captured video by recording audio content in the captured video. The animation may be recorded from the captured video by selecting two or more frames in the captured video and cycling the selected two or more frames.

If the payment transaction mode is selected the processor may be operable to receive transaction data. The transaction data may comprise at least a payment amount and a recipient. In an example embodiment the user may select the recipient from one or more of a contact list a list of recent calls a list of recent transactions on the mobile and wearable device of the user and so forth. The processor may be further operable to perform a payment transaction based on the transaction data user payment data and recipient payment data. In an example embodiment the payment transaction may include transferring a payment from a payment account associated with the user to a payment account associated with a recipient. In a further example embodiment the payment transaction may be performed in a digital currency.

The system may further comprise a database . The database may comprise computer readable instructions for execution by the one or more processors. In an example embodiment the user payment data and the recipient payment data may be stored in a database .

In an example embodiment the user and the recipient may be registered in the system for multimedia capture and payment transactions. Upon registration the user may provide the user payment data and the recipient may provide the recipient payment data to the system . The recipient payment data may include one or more of recipient bank account data recipient debit card data recipient credit card data a recipient phone number recipient virtual currency wallet data and the like.

The system may further optionally include a display . In an example embodiment the display includes a touch display.

In various embodiments the multimedia may include a text a video an image an audio an animation a geographical location and sp forth.

The system for multimedia capture and payment transactions is a proprietary cross platform instant messaging subscription service for mobile and wearable devices and uses internet for communication. The cross platform instant messaging subscription service allows users to communicate with peers by voice using a microphone video by using a webcam. Phone calls may be placed to recipients on the traditional telephone networks. Calls to other users within the service are free of charge. The system is a hybrid peer to peer and client server system. It makes use of background processing on computers running application software.

A web based chat feature may be integrated with the system and built on the open MQTT protocol. The chat feature lets users chat with friends both on mobile and on the main website provide hold to talk voice messaging broadcast one to many messaging sharing of photographs and videos location sharing and so forth.

In some embodiments the system can exchange contacts with people nearby via Bluetooth as well as providing various features for contacting people at random if desired and integration with social networking services. Photographs may also be embellished with filters and captions. Additionally a machine translation service is available.

Similarly the payment transaction mode may correspond for example to the touch contact time of 3.5 second as shown on a screen . Therefore after the user touches the mode selection icon for 3.5 seconds and then stops touching the mode selection icon the payment transaction mode may be initiated.

The user may include a person that sends text and multimedia messages and transaction data to request a payment from the recipient . The multimedia may include different multimedia types such as text image audio geographical location video animation and the like. The transaction data may include a payment amount an identifier user name or nickname of the user and an identifier of the recipient . Identifiers may be associated with the user financial data and the recipient financial data correspondingly. The user financial data user banking account user credit or debit card number and validity date cardholder name user virtual currency wallet data and so forth may be specified by the user during registration with the messaging calling and payment system and stored in the database of the messaging calling and payment system . Similarly the recipient financial data recipient banking account recipient credit or debit card number and validity date cardholder name recipient virtual currency wallet data and so forth may be specified by the recipient during registration with the messaging calling and payment system and stored in the database of the messaging calling and payment system .

The transaction data may be received from the user by the messaging calling and payment system and processed to generate a transaction request . The transaction request may be generated based on the transaction data and the user financial data and the recipient financial data stored in the messaging calling and payment system . The transaction request may be sent to the recipient . The transaction request may be sent in a truncated state that is the user financial data may be excluded from the sent transaction request . The recipient may only see the identifier of the user the requested payment amount and or comments of the user . To protect the user financial data the user financial data is not transmitted to the recipient .

On receiving the transaction request the recipient may confirm or cancel the payment requested by the transaction request . If the transaction request is confirmed the messaging calling and payment system receives the transaction request confirmation and transfers the payment amount from the account of the recipient to the account of the user . In some embodiments the transaction request after its approval is transmitted for processing to the financial institution .

In some embodiments the recipient financial data may include two or more recipient banking accounts and or recipient credit or debit cards. When approving the transaction request the recipient may select the account from which the payment amount will be transferred.

Access to the messaging calling and payment system may be controlled by one or more of the following a password a Personal Identification Number PIN code and biometric authorization the biometric authorization including fingerprint scanning palm scanning face scanning and retina scanning. The scanning may be performed using the one or more biometric sensors. For example the mobile and wearable device may comprise a fingerprint reader configured to scan a fingerprint the scanned fingerprint being matched to one or more approved fingerprints. Access to the system may be granted based on the matching.

Based on the transaction data received from the user and user financial data and recipient financial data stored in the database a transaction request may be generated ay operation . The transaction request may include data required for a payment transfer for example a receiving account an issuing account a payment amount and so forth. The generated transaction request may be truncated to exclude sensitive information e.g. user and recipient accounts and provided to the recipient via a display of a mobile or wearable device related to the recipient at operation . The mobile or wearable device may include an activity tracker a smartwatch smartglasses a Global Positioning System GPS watch a mixed reality device a computer mediated reality device a clothing technology device a e textile item e.g. Smart Shirt smart bracelet smart ring and other internet connected devices and internet of things devices . The transaction request may be provided with a capability to confirm or cancel the transaction associated with the request.

At operation a response to the transaction request may be received from the recipient. The response may include either a transaction confirmation or a transaction cancellation. If the transaction request was confirmed the transaction associated with the transaction request may be performed at operation . If the transaction is cancelled a cancellation notification is provided to the user.

When the transaction is performed the payment amount may be transferred from the payment account associated with the recipient to the payment account associated with the user. In some embodiments a notification of the transaction status may be sent to the user and or recipient.

In some embodiments the transaction may be performed in a virtual currency. Additionally the virtual currency may be customized according to data associated with the user or the recipient. In an example embodiment the customization includes printing an image on the virtual currency. The image may include an image of a user face or a recipient face.

In a further example embodiment the virtual currency includes an encrypted currency also referred to as cryptocurrency. The encrypted currency is encrypted using principles of cryptography being a technology used in online banking. Unlike fiat currency with central banks and online banking the encrypted currency discussed herein is created using peer reviewed cryptographic ciphers thus removing the need to trust a central authority. Thus transfer of the encrypted currency does not require trust of any third party.

Upon encryption of the transaction data a transaction of the currency to the user is performed based on the transaction request. After performing the transaction the method optionally comprises receiving a currency conversion request from the user. In response to the currency conversion request the currency received from the recipient is converted into a currency associated with the user. In particular the conversion includes replacing the image on the virtual currency with an image of a user face.

Printing the face on the virtual currency is an additional security feature that enables worldwide peer to peer transactions with no risk of chargeback or fraud. At the same time both user and recipient are immune to seizure or confiscation of the currency.

The system may further comprise a database comprising computer readable instructions for execution by the one or more processors .

In example embodiments the messaging calling and payment system may also enable the user recipient and further users to exchange text and multimedia messages and make calls. The messaging calling and payment system may be a peer to peer payment service and may provide at least a cross platform messaging service a VoIP service and an OTT service. The VoIP service allows for the delivery of voice communications and multimedia sessions over Internet Protocol IP networks such as the Internet. The VoIP is associated with IP telephony Internet telephony voice over broadband VoBB broadband telephony IP communications and broadband phone service. The OTT service refers to delivery of video audio and other media over the Internet without a mobile provider being involved in the control or distribution of the content. A mobile provider may be aware of the contents of the IP packets but is not responsible for nor able to control the viewing abilities copyrights and or other redistribution of the content.

The processors may be further are operable to control home appliances and applications through gestures recognize gesturing of letters in the mid air as a text settle payment of bills in one action by making a single gesture detect incoming payments transmissions and alerts through built in vibration and light emitting diodes use Global Positioning System iBeacon or a Bluetooth low energy beacon to make payments at retail stores restaurants and make person to person payments make direct payment by tracking a number with a finger make payments between the mobile and wearable devices make payments by gesturing a checkmark provide hold to talk voice messaging broadcast one to many messaging sharing of photographs videos and location exchange contacts with one or more further users via Bluetooth and provide features for contacting people at random in with social networking services machine translation and embellishing photographs with filters and captions.

In some embodiments the system may further comprise a camera not shown configured to provide video calls and capture one or more barcodes. The one or more barcodes may include electronic key data a link to a web resource a payment request advertising information and other information. The one or more barcodes may include a linear dimensional code a two dimensional code a three dimensional code a snap tag code a Quick Response QR code and other machine readable code. Additionally the system may include a microphone to provide audio calls. The audio calls within the system are free of charge. The system is a hybrid peer to peer and client server system.

The messaging calling and payment system may be configured to act as one or more of a smart card a proximity card an IC card a magnetic strip card and an electronic payment card the electronic payment card storing card data of one or more debit cards credit cards gift cards loyalty cards prepaid cards membership cards merchant cards EMV cards other smart and IC cards. The system may be compatible with one or more of the following network standards GSM CDMA LTE IMS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS RFID 4G 5G 6G 7G 8G 9G and upper. The system the system may be a proprietary cross platform instant messaging subscription service for smartphones and selected feature phones that uses Internet for communication. The system can be built on an open MQTT protocol provide multimedia communication and payment services and have integrated web based chat feature.

In some embodiments the system may further comprise an operating system executing on the processor the operating system including Android iOS Firefox OS window system wearable OS and other operating systems.

Additionally the system may be associated with one or more of an application programming interface API and a software development kit SDK and wherein mobile and wearable devices are adapted to be scanned by a Point of Sale POS system.

In an example embodiment the processor of the system for facilitating mobile and wearable device payments and multimedia transfer may be operable to provide facilities for selection of a call mode and a payment transfer mode by a user. Furthermore the processor may be operable to receive from the user the selection of the call mode or the payment transfer mode. Upon selection of the call mode the processor may be operable to provide a call list and a list of recent calls and transactions. The processor may be operable to receive from the user a selection of the recipient from the call list or the list of recent calls and transactions. Upon selection of the payment transfer mode the processor may be operable to provide a barcode via a display of the mobile and wearable device associated with the user. The barcode may encode the payment data associated with the user and an image of a user face. The processor may be further operable to receive from the user a selection of a data transfer mode. The data transfer mode may include scanning a barcode encoding payment data associated with the recipient selecting the recipient from the contact list stored on the mobile and wearable device associated with the user and receiving the payment data associated with the recipient via Bluetooth. Furthermore the processor may be operable to provide data related to location of one or more stores associated with the mobile payment service. Selection of the call mode and the payment transfer mode is shown in detail on .

Upon selecting a Keypad icon a screen may be displayed. The user may enter a number of the person to be called or select the person from a list of recent calls and transactions and press a Call icon to make a call.

Upon selecting a More icon a screen may be displayed. Using the screen the user may invite further users to the system for facilitating mobile and wearable device payments and multimedia transfer for example by sending a message sending an e mail sharing in social networks such as Facebook Twitter and so forth.

The user may enter a name of the recipient and the amount of the payment to be transferred and select a Continue icon to finalize the payment transfer. Upon selection of a Store icon a screen may be displayed representing stores at which payment transfer via mobile and wearable devices is available.

The example computer system includes a processor or multiple processors e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system may also include an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a non transitory computer readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. instructions embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processors during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processors may also constitute machine readable media.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP .

While the computer readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term computer readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that causes the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present application or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media and carrier wave signals. Such media may also include without limitation hard disks floppy disks flash memory cards digital video disks random access memory RAMs read only memory ROMs and the like.

The example embodiments described herein may be implemented in an operating environment comprising software installed on a computer in hardware or in a combination of software and hardware.

Thus various systems and methods for multimedia capture and payment transactions have been described. Although embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the system and method described herein. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

