---

title: User equipment initiated discontinuous operation in a wireless communications network
abstract: An apparatus and method for initiating discontinuous reception (DRX) operation in a user equipment (UE) are disclosed herein. Applications running on the UE are monitored by the UE to identify one or more inactivity trigger events associated with the application(s). The UE includes an application-radio cross layer to process the application information, including the inactivity trigger event, for use by a radio layer. The radio layer of the UE determines initiation of the DRX operation in accordance with the application information, including the inactivity trigger event, provided by the application-radio cross layer and device characteristics information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09538547&OS=09538547&RS=09538547
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09538547
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160307
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 127 805 filed Apr. 21 2014 which is a U.S. National Stage Filing under 35 U.S.C. 371 from International Application Number PCT US2012 044670 filed on Jun. 28 2012 and published as WO 2013 006381 A2 on Jan. 10 2013 which application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 504 054 entitled Method and Apparatus for LTE filed on Jul. 1 2011 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to wireless communications. More particularly the present disclosure relates to user equipment initiated operations within wireless communication systems.

Devices operating within a wireless data communications network expend significant power to receive instructions and data and perform associated signal processing. As wireless data communications networks increase data rates the power consumption of devices is also increasing. For mobile devices which are typically powered by a limited power source in the form of batteries a design goal is to achieve battery power conservation without adversely affecting active operation requirements.

One way for devices to conserve power and reduce signaling overhead in current 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP long term evolution LTE Advanced systems is to implement discontinuous reception DRX operation. DRX operation involves reducing the transceiver duty cycle of the device. An enhanced node B eNodeB within a 3GPP LTE system instructs one or more devices within its serving area to initiate DRX operation based on meeting a pre determined inactivity timer value specified by the eNodeB. The eNodeB also instructs the device s as to a particular DRX duty cycle e.g. when a device should be on to receive scheduling and paging information and or data and when the device should be off to conserve power usage . Only the eNodeB can initiate DRX operation. Current 3GPP LTE Advanced systems do not support initiation of DRX operation by user equipment UE devices.

The following description is presented to enable any person skilled in the art to create and use a computer system configuration and related method and article of manufacture to determine and initiate discontinuous reception DRX operation by a user equipment UE operating in a wireless communications network. The protocol stack of the UE includes new components to identify inactivity trigger events associated with applications running on the UE and or device characteristics of the UE non access stratum NAS parameters facilitate access to the inactivity trigger events by a radio resource control medium access control RRC MAC layer and for the RRC MAC layer to determine whether to initiate DRX operation and optionally to select a particular DRX duty cycle or other DRX parameters . The UE signals intent to trigger DRX operation to its associated eNodeB using radio resource control RRC signaling included in radio frame s and in response to receiving confirmation from the eNodeB switches to DRX mode. Hence UE achieves power savings reduces battery consumption and or reduction in signaling overhead over the air interface from smart idle mode implementation. The UE suggests one or more DRX parameters to the eNodeB based on its actual operating state and or device characteristics.

Various modifications to the embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the scope of the invention. Moreover in the following description numerous details are set forth for the purpose of explanation. However one of ordinary skill in the art will realize that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without the use of these specific details. In other instances well known structures and processes are not shown in block diagram form in order not to obscure the description of the embodiments of the invention with unnecessary detail. Thus the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein.

The eNodeB also referred to as a base station serves a certain geographic area denoted as a cell . The UEs located within the cell are served by the eNodeB . The eNodeB communicates with the UEs on a first carrier frequency F1 e.g. the primary carrier component and optionally one or more secondary carrier frequencies such as a second carrier frequency F2 e.g. the secondary carrier component . For ease of illustration only a single eNodeB is shown in . However it is understood that the wireless communications network includes more than one eNodeB each of the eNodeBs serving a particular cell which may or may not neighbor the eNodeB .

The UEs may comprise a variety of devices including but not limited to cellular telephones smart phones tablets laptops desktops personal computers servers personal digital assistants PDAs web appliances set top box STB a network router switch or bridge and the like. One or more UEs may move into or out of the cell at any given time.

The instructions comprises one or more sets of instructions or software executed on a computing device or machine to cause such computing device or machine to perform any of the methodologies discussed herein. The instructions also referred to as computer readable instructions machine readable instructions modules components or apps may reside completely or at least partially within the processor and or memory during execution thereof. The processor and memory also comprise machine readable media. In one embodiment the processor is configured to execute the instructions to facilitate operations associated with initiating discontinuous reception DRX operation by one or more UEs as described in detail below.

Although the eNodeB UE is illustrated as having several separate functional elements one or more of the functional elements may be combined and may be implemented by combinations of software configured elements such as processing elements including digital signal processors DSPs and or other hardware elements. For example some elements may comprise one or more microprocessors DSPs application specific integrated circuits ASICs radio frequency integrated circuits RFICs and combinations of various hardware and logic circuitry for performing at least the functions described herein. In some embodiments the functional elements may refer to one or more processes operating on one or more processing elements.

Embodiments may be implemented in one or a combination of hardware firmware and software. Embodiments may also be implemented as instructions stored on a computer readable storage medium which may be read and executed by at least one processor to perform the operations described herein. A computer readable storage medium may include any non transitory mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer . For example a computer readable storage medium may include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices and other storage devices and media. In these embodiments one or more processors of the UE may be configured with the instructions to perform the operations described herein.

In some embodiments the UE may be configured to receive Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplex OFDM communication signals over a multicarrier communication channel in accordance with an OFDMA communication technique. In some embodiments the OFDMA technique may be either a frequency domain duplexing FDD technique that uses different uplink and downlink spectrum or a time domain duplexing TDD technique that uses the same spectrum for uplink and downlink. The OFDM signals may comprise a plurality of orthogonal subcarriers. In some broadband multicarrier embodiments eNodeB may be part of a broadband wireless access BWA network communication network such as a Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX communication network or a 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN Long Term Evolution LTE or a Long Term Evolution LTE communication network although the scope of the invention is not limited in this respect. In these broadband multicarrier embodiments the UE and the eNodeB may be configured to communicate in accordance with an orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA technique. The UTRAN LTE standards include the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP standards for UTRAN LTE Release 8 March 2008 and Release 10 December 2010 including variations and evolutions thereof.

The UEs located in the cell transmit data to the eNodeB uplink transmission and receive data from the eNodeB downlink transmission using radio frames comprising Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA frames configured for TDD operations or FDD operations. Each of the radio frames comprises a plurality of uplink and downlink subframes the uplink and downlink subframes configured in accordance with the uplink downlink ratio configuration selected from among the supported uplink downlink ratio configurations. See 3GPP TS 36.211 Version 9.1.0 E UTRA Physical Channels and Modulation Release 9 March 2010. 

The UE wirelessly communicates with the eNodeB via an air interface. A mobility management entity MME gateway is provided in the communication path between the eNodeB and a home subscriber server HSS home location register HLR . The eNodeB wirelessly communicates with the MME gateway . The MME gateway communicates with the HSS HLR . MME gateway also referred to as the MME comprises a control node for the wireless communications network that is configured to among other things control access to HSS HLR . HSS HLR comprises a master repository of subscriber information account information UE information service information and or other information relating to devices operating within the wireless communications network . For example the stored information can include account numbers user preferences user permissions network permissions UE characteristics or specifications and the like. MME gateway mediates accessing for example UE characteristics stored in the HSS HLR in response to a request from the UE for such information.

At a block UE communicates with the eNodeB to obtain information about its device characteristics from the HSS HLR via the MME gateway during the network attach procedure in which the UE establishes a connection session with the network . Device characteristics include but are not limited to delay tolerance of data to be sent or received by the UE such as delay tolerance associated with applications on the UE and or whether UE is a machine to machine M2M type of device. The NAS layer of the UE requests the device characteristics information and the received information is stored in the NAS parameters component .

Alternatively block may be optional if the NAS parameters component already includes the device characteristics information.

At a block the energy aware event monitor component also referred to as the enemy aware event monitor application event monitor or application inactivity event monitor included in the application layer monitors applications running on the UE to identify or predict one or more inactivity trigger events. An inactivity trigger event also referred to as an inactivity event comprises a time period when there can be no data packets received or sent for the UE with minimal or no sacrifice of application performance and thus amenable to power and signaling overhead conservation.

The presence of the application radio cross layer allows the application s to communicate certain types of information which were previously unavailable to the RRC MAC layer . At a block the application radio cross layer translates processes or otherwise uses the application information from the application layer to generate or finalize inactivity trigger event information into a format useable by the RRC MAC layer . For example the application layer can send an end of session data packet associated with an application which can be configured by the application radio cross layer for use by the RRC MAC layer . The application radio cross layer comprises an application programming interface API and the implementation of the API functions.

The application aware DRX trigger component of the RRC MAC layer also referred to as a radio layer analyzes the inactivity trigger event information provided by the application layer via the application radio cross layer information about all the applications running on the UE network traffic information the device characteristics information e.g. delay tolerance and or M2M device designation from the NAS parameters component and other relevant information to determine whether to trigger a DRX operation at a block . If a determination is made not to trigger DRX operation no branch of block then the application aware DRX trigger component waits for the next set of information from the application layer . Otherwise a determination is made to trigger DRX operation by the UE yes branch of block .

In the current technical specification there is no application radio cross layer . Data from the application layer is received by the RRC MAC layer but is not analyzed by the RRC MAC layer. The RRC MAC layer does not know the content of the received data packets and merely readies the data packets for transmission to an eNodeB. In contrast embodiments of the present disclosure include use of the energy aware event monitor component of the application layer the application radio cross layer the application aware DRX trigger component of the RRC MAC layer and the NAS parameters component of the NAS layer for the UE to negotiate DRX parameters for itself.

The application aware DRX trigger can also determine which DRX duty cycle to trigger based on the inactivity trigger event information block . For example if the UE comprises a M2M type of device a long DRX duty cycle may be appropriate. As another example the DRX duty cycle may be selected to avoid interruptions during the off portion of the duty cycle by a keep alive message. Alternatively the UE may not have the option to select a DRX duty cycle if this is reserved for the eNodeB in which case block is optional.

Next at a block the UE signals to the eNodeB an intent to trigger DRX operation and optionally a particular DRX duty cycle other DRX parameters and other possible information relating to DRX operation such as application characteristics collectively referred to as DRX parameters or the DRX related parameters . The signaling may comprise a handshake request confirmation notification or synchronization procedure with the eNodeB prior to actually going into DRX mode.

In response to the intent signaled by the UE the eNodeB can confirm modify or reject all or a portion of the DRX intent suggested by the UE at a block . The eNodeB can specify one or more DRX parameters different from that recommended by the UE at the block . In any case the UE receives a reply command from the eNodeB regarding going into DRX mode at a block . The UE in turn communicates a confirmation to the eNodeB that the eNodeB s reply command has been received at a block . Lastly at a block the UE switches to DRX operation mode in accordance with the DRX parameters finalized by the eNodeB .

In one embodiment of blocks and new radio resource control RRC signaling is used for the UE to negotiate DRX parameters for itself with the eNodeB . As shown in the new RRC signaling comprises RRCConnectionParametersRequest RRCConnectionParametersResponse and RRCConnectionParametersComplete messages. The new RRC signaling information is included in one or more radio frames. The UE generates and transmits an RRCConnectionParametersRequest message to the eNodeB to signal its intent to initiate DRX operation communication . The RRCConnectionParametersRequest message includes information elements IEs corresponding to DRX related parameters as decided by the UE in accordance with its end of session periodicity of keep alive messages delay tolerance and or type of M2M device information and provisions for other values settings parameters that the UE may suggest to the eNodeB . As an example the RRCConnectionParametersRequest message can include the DRXConfig parameters which are defined as DRX Config IE in 3GPP TS 36.331 Version 10.0.0 E UTRA Radio Resource Control RRC Protocol Specification Release 10 January 2011 including variations and evolutions thereof.

In response the eNodeB transmits an RRCConnectionParametersResponse message to the UE which comprises a confirmation modification or rejection of the DRX related parameters suggested by the UE communication . The RRCConnectionParametersResponse message also comprises the DRX related parameters specified by the eNodeB which may or may not be the same as one or more of the DRX related parameters suggested by the UE in communication in accordance with the confirmation modification or rejection decision by the eNodeB . The DRX related parameters included in the RRCConnectionParametersResponse message can be defined for example as the DRX Config IE set forth in 3GPP TS 36.331 Version 10.0.0 E UTRA Radio Resource Control RRC Protocol Specification Release 10 January 2011 including variations and evolutions thereof. In some embodiments the DRX related parameters included in the RRCConnectionParametersResponse message may comprise just the parameter s that are different from those suggested by the UE since the UE is already in possession of the remaining parameters.

Last the UE returns a RRCConnectionParametersComplete message to the eNodeB confirming successful receipt of the RRCConnectionParametersResponse message including the DRX related parameters set forth by the eNodeB communication . When there is a difference in the DRX related parameters between those suggested by the UE and the response by the eNodeB the DRX related parameters set forth by the eNodeB in the RRCConnectionParametersResponse message controls.

In an alternative embodiment of blocks and the existing RRC signaling mechanism for reestablishing connection with the network is extended to provide the UE suggested DRX related parameters to the eNodeB . Reestablishment of network connection is initiated by the UE when some kind of network connection failure occurs such as during handover or if there is an emergency. The re establishment procedure is initiated by the UE generating and transmitting to the eNodeB a RRCConnectionReestablishmentRequest message via radio frame s that includes a re establishment connection request as is conventionally done and also at least the DRX related parameters e.g. DRX Config IE that are self determined by the UE . The rest of the re establishment procedure involves re establishing all of the RRC connections as described in 3GPP TS 36.331 Version 10.0.0 E UTRA Radio Resource Control RRC Protocol Specification Release 10 January 2011 including variations and evolutions thereof. Similar to the embodiment above if there is a difference in the DRX related parameters between the UE and eNodeB after the UE suggested DRX related parameters are provided to the eNodeB those from eNodeB controls.

Flow diagram can be repeated for each UE associated with the eNodeB in order for each of the UEs to self determine and recommend when to go into idle mode or DRX operation instead of the eNodeB . In some embodiments the flow diagram can be implemented for the UE to suggest one or more changes in its DRX parameters based on its applications and or device characteristics.

Accordingly a new DRX triggering mechanism is described herein that takes advantage of the real time application information of the UE itself to self determine optimal triggering of DRX operation rather than having the eNodeB statically assign an inactivity timer to the UE to trigger DRX mode as is currently done. The UE possesses more and better information about its network traffic needs than the eNodeB . Applications running on the UE have certain characteristics or events such as an application end of session application keep alive messages and or delay tolerance of application data which are monitored by the energy aware event monitor component included in the application layer . Such application information in turn are processed or translated by the application radio cross layer into a form accessible by the application aware DRX trigger component of the RRC MAC layer . A NAS parameters component of the NAS layer also provides device characteristic information such as device data delay tolerance and or M2M device type information to the application aware DRX trigger component . The application aware DRX trigger component analyzes the application information and or the device characteristic information to determine whether to initiate DRX operation and optionally which DRX duty cycle or other DRX parameters to implement. The UE sends a request to the eNodeB seeking approval or confirmation to trigger DRX operation and optionally a particular DRX duty cycle . When the eNodeB responds e.g. agreement modification or rejection of the DRX parameters suggested by the UE UE starts DRX operation in accordance with the response by the eNodeB .

The term machine readable medium computer readable medium and the like should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media and carrier wave signals.

It will be appreciated that for clarity purposes the above description describes some embodiments with reference to different functional units or processors. However it will be apparent that any suitable distribution of functionality between different functional units processors or domains may be used without detracting from embodiments of the invention. For example functionality illustrated to be performed by separate processors or controllers may be performed by the same processor or controller. Hence references to specific functional units are only to be seen as references to suitable means for providing the described functionality rather than indicative of a strict logical or physical structure or organization.

Although the present invention has been described in connection with some embodiments it is not intended to be limited to the specific form set forth herein. One skilled in the art would recognize that various features of the described embodiments may be combined in accordance with the invention. Moreover it will be appreciated that various modifications and alterations may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

