---

title: System and method for associating a universal user identification and a domain specific user identification
abstract: There is presented a system and method for associating a domain transcendent identification (ID) of a user and a domain specific ID of the user, the system comprising an ID association server accessible by a plurality of secure domains over a network. The system also includes an ID associator application that when executed by ID association server is configured to receive a domain specific ID that associates the user to the secure domain, enter the domain specific ID in a domain transcendent ID record created for the user, generate a unique data associated with the domain transcendent ID record and identify a network location for submission of the unique data, send the unique data and the network location to the user, and associate the domain transcendent ID and the domain specific ID.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09473501&OS=09473501&RS=09473501
owner: Disney Enterprises, Inc.
number: 09473501
owner_city: Burbank
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160226
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 271 299 filed May 6 2014 which is a Continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 928 350 filed Dec. 8 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates generally to user authentication. More particularly the present invention relates to systems and methods for associating a universal user identification with one or more domain specific identifications of the user.

Consumers are increasingly turning to online providers when shopping for goods and services. In an effort to protect the personal and financial information required to complete an online transaction providers of goods and services typically provide a secure network domain and require that the consumer participate in creating a user identity specific to the provider and their secure network domain. This user identity may consist of potentially sensitive personally identifiable information such as an address telephone number credit card information email address and the like. In addition the consumer may be required to create log in credentials such as a username and password to authenticate their identity to the provider when engaging in a transaction using the secure domain.

In a conventional approach to managing a user identity within a secure provider domain the potentially sensitive consumer information and consumer credentials are relationally linked together by the provider in the form of a unique provider defined consumer identification consumer ID . Across a network such as the Internet for example a consumer may have a unique user identity and related unique provider generated consumer ID that is domain specific and associates them only to the secure domain of the respective provider for each provider with which the consumer interacts. As a result in such a conventional regime should a provider wish to share transaction information for a given consumer with one or more other providers they are unable to not do so without sharing consumer credentials or other potentially sensitive information to identify and link them.

Although there have been efforts in the conventional art to implement a universal network ID such as through use of the OpenID format for example those endeavors have generally been limited in their effectiveness. For instance several trusted third party identity providers presently exist and are capable of providing an authentication interface and a service verifying a recognized user s identity for more than one secure provider domain. However because of the number trusted third party identity providers in existence and the absence of coordination among them most users derive little more than single sign on functionality from existing approaches to providing universal identification. In addition because user s typically acquire more than one universal ID from more than one existing trusted third party identity provider the user s profile is likely to be fragmented and distributed among his her several so called universal IDs. Moreover because there is no coherent approach for associating the multiple universal IDs acquired by the user from different trusted third party identity providers there is no mechanism for collecting that fragmentary information and associating it with a single user.

Accordingly there is a need to overcome the drawbacks and deficiencies in the art by providing a solution for associating a universal network ID of a consumer with one or more domain specific IDs that associate the consumer with the respective secure domains established by individual network based providers of goods and or services.

There are provided systems and methods for associating a universal network identification of a user with one or more domain specific identifications of the user substantially as shown in and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

The present application is directed to a system and method for associating a domain transcendent e.g. universal identification ID of a user and one or more domain specific IDs of the user. The following description contains specific information pertaining to the implementation of the present invention. One skilled in the art will recognize that the present invention may be implemented in a manner different from that specifically discussed in the present application. Moreover some of the specific details of the invention are not discussed in order not to obscure the invention. The specific details not described in the present application are within the knowledge of a person of ordinary skill in the art. The drawings in the present application and their accompanying detailed description are directed to merely exemplary embodiments of the invention. To maintain brevity other embodiments of the invention which use the principles of the present invention are not specifically described in the present application and are not specifically illustrated by the present drawings. It should be borne in mind that unless noted otherwise like or corresponding elements among the figures may be indicated by like or corresponding reference numerals.

It is noted that for the purposes of the present invention the expressions universal ID and domain transcendent ID may be used interchangeably to signify an ID of user that uniquely identifies user across a plurality of secure domains. In one embodiment a domain transcendent ID of user while uniquely identifying user across secure domains and for example does not include personally identifiable information linked to user . It is further noted that as used herein the expression domain specific ID refers to an ID generated by any of secure domains and to identify and authenticate user within that respective secure domain. As such a domain specific ID of user may include personally identifiable information linked to user and is typically not used or recognized outside of the secure domain in which it is generated.

According to the embodiment of however ID associator application can be executed by processor of ID association server so as to perform a method for associating a domain transcendent ID of user provided by trusted third party identity provider with one or more domain specific IDs that associate user with any of respective secure domains and . As a result user may enjoy a more seamless network experience by being relieved of the necessity of interacting with multiple log in protocols and of entering multiple username and password combinations. For example where user has opted in to association of his or her domain specific IDs on each of secure domains and with a domain transcendent ID of the user provided by trusted third party identity provider and stored on ID association server ID associator application can be configured to facilitate network interactions of user among secure domains and while assuring that the personally identifiable information associated with the domain specific IDs is not shared among the secure domains.

In addition in one embodiment information related to transactions between user and any one of secure domains and and not including personally identifiable information can be shared among secure domains and . For example where secure domains and correspond to mutually autonomous providers of related goods and or services e commerce transaction information such as a history of product purchases can be shared among the respective providers thereby enabling them to be responsive to the preferences and known product acquisitions by user .

Although the present discussion has thus far described ID associator application and database including domain transcendent ID record as residing in memory of ID association server more generally either or both of ID associator application and database may be stored either together or separately on any suitable computer readable medium accessible by ID association server . The expression computer readable medium as used in the present application refers to any medium that provides instructions to a processor such as processor of ID association server . Thus a suitable computer readable medium may correspond to various types of media such as volatile media or non volatile media for example. Volatile media may include dynamic memory such as dynamic random access memory dynamic RAM while non volatile memory may include optical magnetic or electrostatic storage devices. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a compact disc read only memory CD ROM DVD or other optical disc a RAM programmable read only memory PROM erasable PROM EPROM and FLASH memory.

It is further noted that in other embodiments the functionality represented in as being provided by single ID Association Server may in fact be provided by one or more additional servers. Thus more generally ID Association Server may be seen to correspond to a server network for implementing the present inventive concepts. Moreover although much of the present discussion characterizes third party identity provider as providing the domain transcendent ID for user as well as providing other authentication data in some embodiments those functions may be performed by other assets of system . Thus in some embodiments the services characterized as being provided by trusted third party identify provider may be provided as first party operations by system itself.

The operation of system in will now be further described by reference to . shows a block diagram depicting a series of network interactions including participation by a system for associating a domain transcendent ID of a user and at least one domain specific ID of the user according to one embodiment of the present invention while presents a flowchart of an exemplary method for performance by such a system.

Referring now to is a flowchart presenting a method for associating a domain transcendent ID of a user and at least one domain specific ID of the user according to one embodiment of the present invention. The steps shown in flowchart are provided merely as examples however so that a step may consist of one or more substeps or may involve specialized equipment or materials as known in the art. While steps through indicated in flowchart are sufficient to describe one embodiment of the present invention other embodiments may utilize steps different from those shown in flowchart or may include more or fewer steps.

Starting with step in step of flowchart comprises receiving a first domain specific ID that associates a user to one of any number of secure domains accessible over a network. Referring to step may be performed by ID association server under the control of processor executing ID associator application for example. Referring to network interaction in step of flowchart may be seen to correspond to communication arrow received by ID association server from secure domain .

To provide an example context for the interaction represented in user may be seen to be a consumer seeking a commercial good or service for example an item of media content such as an e book or digital movie content from a media content provider over the Internet. The media content provider or providers for example Amazon Barnes Noble or Blockbuster online establish respective secure domains such as secure domains and to authenticate recognized users of the secure domain as well as to protect sensitive and or personally identifiable information entered into the secure domain by the user during a registration process or in conjunction with a commercial e.g. e commerce transaction.

According to the present e commerce example user acting as a potential consumer accesses one of secure domains or which are all secure domains configured to utilize the domain transcendent ID association provided by system for example by performing a log in operation over network using client side computer . Once logged in to one of secure domains or user may be invited to link their domain specific ID associating them to the respective secure domain with a domain transcendent ID such as an ID of user recognized by a trusted third party identity provider which may be an OpenID provider such as Google Facebook or VeriSign for example. Referring again to the decision to opt in to such an invitation by user can be seen to correspond to communication arrow linking user and secure domain .

Having obtained the consent of user to share domain specific ID information with ID association server secure domain then sends the domain specific ID that associates user to secure domain such as a consumer ID of user on secure domain to ID association server . In addition secure domain may also be expected to send provider information identifying the commercial entity corresponding to secure domain . That communication of provider information and or the domain specific ID of user by secure domain corresponds to communication arrow and receipt of that communication by ID association server may be seen to correspond to step in .

It is noted that the e commerce example discussed above and also further discussed below in conjunction with other method steps has been introduced for the purposes of conceptual clarity and is not intended to define the invention. For example in other embodiments a user may be invited to link their domain specific ID associating them to the respective secure domain with a domain transcendent ID as part of a login process of the secure domain and that invitation may be independent of any commercial transaction. In yet other embodiments such an invitation may take the form of a provider initiated communication sent by the secure domain to the user either within a user session or outside the user session. For example in one embodiment the user may be invited to link their domain specific ID associating them to the respective secure domain with a domain transcendent ID and that invitation may be sent to the user as an email communication to the user s personal email account. That communication may be solicited or unsolicited by the user and the user s affirmative response to the invitation can result in occurrence of step .

Continuing with step in and referring to step of flowchart comprises entering the domain specific ID received from the secure domain in domain transcendent ID record created for user and stored in memory of system . Step may be performed by ID association server under the control of processor and ID associator application for example and may include either creation of domain transcendent ID record or simply entry of the domain specific ID as an update to existing domain transcendent ID record where such a record was created during a previous transaction between user and one of secure domains or

Moving on to step in and continuing to refer to step of flowchart comprises generating a unique data associated with domain transcendent ID record and identifying a location of network for user to submit the unique data. Once again step may be performed by ID association server under the control of processor and ID associator application . In one embodiment the unique data may comprise a token capable of being interpreted so as to identify domain transcendent ID record and or ID association server .

By way of example a token can be created using a cryptographic hash function such as Message Digest algorithm 5 MD5 or Secure Hash Algorithm 1 SHA 1 for example and applying the hash function to a unique data set. The unique data set may include the identity of the secure domain from which the domain specific ID was received in step as well as data associated with the user and other data such as a time or date stamp for example. The unique data set may then be hashed to generate the token. Referring again to a network location for submission of the unique data e.g. token by user may comprise authorization gateway and identifying the location of authorization gateway may comprise identifying the Uniform Resource Locator URL at which authorization gateway can be accessed on the network.

In one embodiment authorization gateway may be an asset of a system for associating a domain transcendent ID of a user and at least one domain specific ID of the user such as system in . For example authorization gateway may comprise an application programming interface API of system configured for use with Id associator application . In another embodiment however authorization gateway may not be included as part of system and may be provided instead as a third party asset configured to work cooperatively with ID associator application and ID association server for example.

Proceeding to step of and continuing to refer to step of flowchart comprises sending the unique data e.g. token and the network location e.g. URL of authorization gateway to user via secure domain . Step may be performed by ID association server under the control of processor and ID associator application . As may be apparent from step can correspond to communication arrows and respectively linking ID association server with secure domain and secure domain with user . In one embodiment the unique data and or the network location sent by ID association server may be time sensitive such as by being associated with a usable time window after which the unique data and or network location are expired. For example in one embodiment the network location e.g. URL sent in step may be accessible by user for a limited time period after the unique data is sent to user via secure domain after which time period the network location e.g. authorization gateway can no longer be accessed by user at that URL.

Continuing with step of flowchart step comprises receiving the unique data e.g. token and an authentication data for user via the network location e.g. authorization gateway . As further shown in authorization gateway may be configured to mediate authentication of user by any one of multiples trusted third party identity providers and . The authentication data provided by the relevant one of trusted third party identity providers and includes the domain transcendent ID of user such as the OpenID for that respective trusted third party identity provider for example.

Once again step may be performed by ID association server under the control of processor and ID associator application in . Referring again to in response to step user is provided with a network location e.g. authorization gateway to which to navigate in order to continue with the domain transcendent ID association process. Communication arrow may be seen to correspond to that navigation to authorization gateway undertaken by user for example by means of client side computer and network in .

Authorization gateway may be configured to invite user to select a trusted third party identity provider from one or more eligible trusted third party providers such as trusted third party identify providers and for example. According to the embodiment shown in user selects trusted third party identity provider and authorization gateway mediates authentication of user by trusted third party identity provider in a communication corresponding to communication arrow . In addition authorization gateway may be configured to query additional information from trusted third party identity provider as authorized by user such as a verified email address and the username of user associated with trusted third party identity provider for example. The authentication data including the additional information queried from trusted third party identity provider is received by ID association server in step of corresponding to communication arrow in .

Referring now to step in step of flowchart comprises associating the domain transcendent ID and the domain specific ID. Step may be performed by ID association server under the control of processor and ID associator application in and may include writing an entry into domain transcendent ID record of database . Referring to such an entry may record the association of the domain transcendent ID of user received from trusted third party identity provider via authorization gateway in step of flowchart and the domain specific ID e.g. consumer ID received from secure domain in step .

In one embodiment the method of flowchart may be performed as part of an e commerce transaction between user and secure domain . Moreover in one embodiment receipt of the unique data e.g. token and the authentication data in step of flowchart may occur after delivery of a good procured by user in such an e commerce transaction with secure domain . For example association of a domain transcendent universal ID of user with a consumer ID specific to secure domain may be performed as part of a transaction in which user purchases digital movie content from secure domain over the network and step of flowchart may occur after consumer receives the digital media content from secure domain .

As indicated by step of flowchart steps through may be repeated for additional domain specific IDs that associate the user with respective additional secure domains. Referring to for example where a first iteration of steps through associated a domain transcendent ID of user with a user ID specific to secure domain a second iteration of steps through may be performed to associate the domain transcendent ID with another user ID specific to secure domain and so forth. In addition association of multiple domain specific IDs of user with a single domain transcendent ID of user also associates those domain specific IDs with one another in domain transcendent ID record thereby streamlining the network experience of user by enabling use of a single domain transcendent ID for authentication across a plurality of secure domains.

Although it is contemplated that user may choose to consistently utilize the same trusted third party identity provider when participating in the association process represented by flowchart in one embodiment system is further configured to enable user to change the trusted third party identity provider after the domain transcendent ID and the first domain specific ID are initially associated thereby providing user with additional choice and flexibility in managing his or her domain transcendent network identity.

In addition it may be the case that a user will purposefully or otherwise utilize more than one domain transcendent ID provided by corresponding multiple respective trusted third party identity providers in the course of his her network interactions. Consequently in some embodiments the system of and the method of flowchart in may be adapted to link more than one domain transcendent ID together to create an integrated logical domain transcendent user ID. For example in addition to associating a particular domain transcendent ID with one or more domain specific IDs as exemplified by the present inventive concepts can be extended to enable the user to link that domain transcendent ID with another domain transcendent ID thereby providing a mechanism for collecting and harmonizing user specific information across the network by further associating some or all of the domain specific IDs associated with each domain transcendent ID of the user together.

Thus a system and method for associating a domain transcendent e.g. universal ID of a user and one or more domain specific IDs of the user has been described. From the above description of the invention it is manifest that various techniques can be used for implementing the concepts of the present invention without departing from its scope. Moreover while the invention has been described with specific reference to certain embodiments a person of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that changes can be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and the scope of the invention. It should also be understood that the invention is not limited to the particular embodiments described herein but is capable of many rearrangements modifications and substitutions without departing from the scope of the invention.

