---

title: Suggesting friends for playing a game
abstract: Exemplary methods, apparatuses, and systems provide a suggested list of people for a user of a social network system to play a game with. A social networking system receives a trigger for providing the user access from a user device to the game over a network. The social networking system identifies a pool of people who have a personal connection with the user and who have not played the game before. From the pool of people, a suggested list of people is selected based on closeness to the user. The suggested list is sent to the user device for the user device for the user to selectively invite one or more of the people to play the game.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09630114&OS=09630114&RS=09630114
owner: FACEBOOK, INC.
number: 09630114
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160823
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 801 725 filed Mar. 13 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The various embodiments described herein relate to social networks. In particular the embodiments relate to integration of online gaming with a social network.

Social networking systems have become prevalent in recent years because they provide an environment in which users can connect to and communicate with other users. Social networking systems commonly provide mechanisms allowing users to interact within their social networks. In this context a user may be an individual or any other entity such as a business or other non person entity. A social networking system allows users to designate other users or entities as connections or otherwise connect to or form relationships with other users or entities contribute and interact with their connections use applications join groups list and confirm attendance at events invite connections and perform other tasks that facilitate social interaction.

One type of application that a user of a social networking system can access is an online game. A social networking system can serve as a platform for its users to play online games and share their gaming experiences.

Embodiments described herein include methods apparatuses and systems for providing a suggested list of people to a user of a social networking system for the user to play an online multiplayer game with. The suggested list of people is selected from a pool of people who have a personal connection with the user and who have not played the game before. The people having a personal connection with the user are the user s friends friends of friends close friends of friends etc. The suggested list of people is selected based on their closeness to the user in the personal connection. The suggested list is sent to the user device for the user to selectively invite one or more of the people to play the game. In one embodiment the suggested list shows the reason why each person is selected into the list if such information is not blocked by that person for privacy concerns. The people in the suggested list are more likely to accept the user s invitations and it may be more fun for the user to play with these people due to the closeness in personal connection. Thus the social networking system provides enhanced game playing experiences for its users.

A social networking system may store records of users and relationships between users in a social graph comprising a plurality of nodes and a plurality of edges connecting the nodes. The nodes may comprise a plurality of user nodes and a plurality of concept nodes. A user node of the social graph may correspond to a user of the social networking system. A user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities . A user node corresponding to a user may comprise information provided by the user and information gathered by various systems including the social networking system. For example the user may provide his or her name profile picture city of residence contact information birth date gender marital status family status employment educational background preferences interests and other demographic information to be included in the user node. Each user node of the social graph may have a corresponding web page typically known as a profile page . For example in response to a request including a user name the social networking system can access a user node corresponding to the user name and construct a profile page including the name a profile picture and other information associated with the user. A profile page of a first user may display to a second user all or a portion of the first user s information based on one or more privacy settings by the first user and the relationship between the first user and the second user. A concept node may correspond to a concept of the social networking system. For example a concept can represent a real world entity such as a movie a song a sports team a celebrity a group a restaurant or a place or a location. An administrative user of a concept node corresponding to a concept may create or update the concept node by providing information of the concept e.g. by filling out an online form causing the social networking system to associate the information with the concept node. For example and without limitation information associated with a concept can include a name or a title one or more images e.g. an image of cover page of a book a web site e.g. an URL address or contact information e.g. a phone number an email address . Each concept node of the social graph may correspond to a web page. For example in response to a request including a name the social networking system can access a concept node corresponding to the name and construct a web page including the name and other information associated with the concept. An edge between a pair of nodes may represent a relationship between the pair of nodes. For example an edge between two user nodes can represent a friendship between two users. For another example the social networking system may construct a web page or a structured document of a concept node e.g. a restaurant a celebrity incorporating one or more selectable buttons e.g. like check in in the web page. A user can access the page using a web browser hosted by the user s client device and select a selectable button causing the client device to transmit to the social networking system a request to create an edge between a user node of the user and a concept node of the concept indicating a relationship between the user and the concept e.g. the user checks in a restaurant or the user likes a celebrity etc. . For example a user may provide or change his or her city of residence causing the social networking system to create an edge between a user node corresponding to the user and a concept node corresponding to the city declared by the user as his or her city of residence. In addition the degree of separation between any two nodes is defined as the minimum number of hops required to traverse the social graph from one node to the other. A degree of separation between two nodes can be considered a measure of relatedness between the users or the concepts represented by the two nodes in the social graph. For example two users having user nodes that are directly connected by an edge i.e. are first degree nodes may be described as connected users or friends. Similarly two users having user nodes that are connected only through another user node i.e. are second degree nodes may be described as friends of friends. 

A social networking system may support a variety of applications such as photo sharing on line calendars and events gaming instant messaging and advertising. For example the social networking system may also include media sharing capabilities. Also the social networking system may allow users to post photographs and other multimedia files to a user s profile page typically known as wall posts or timeline posts or in a photo album both of which may be accessible to other users of the social networking system depending upon the user s configured privacy settings. The social networking system may also allow users to configure events. For example a first user may configure an event with attributes including time and date of the event location of the event and other users invited to the event. The invited users may receive invitations to the event and respond such as by accepting the invitation or declining it . Furthermore the social networking system may allow users to maintain a personal calendar. Similarly to events the calendar entries may include times dates locations and identities of other users.

As described earlier an edge between a pair of nodes may indicate a direct relationship between the pair of nodes. An edge may be directed and connect an ordered pair of nodes. For example an edge connecting a user node corresponding to a user and a concept node corresponding to a city may be directed i.e. the user lives in the city . An edge may be undirected as a pair of nodes connected by the edge does not have a particular order. For example an edge connecting two user nodes can be undirected as the edge indicates a friendship between two users corresponding to the two user nodes. As described earlier herein a degree of separation between any two nodes is defined as the minimum number of hops required to traverse the social graph from one node to the other. Thus for user B the nodes for users A C and G are all one hop away and are thus users of first degree and may be described as connected to or friends of user B. However from the standpoint of user B the nodes for users E F J and K are considered to have a second degree of separation because the shortest path from user B to any of these nodes requires transiting through one other node. Thus from the standpoint of user B users E F J and K are deemed friends of friends. Accordingly user B is either a friend or a friend of a friend with every other user in the graph except for user H as the shortest path between user B and user H transits through two user nodes.

The game service system can be separate from the social networking system or can be part of the social networking system . For example the game service system and the social networking system may be operated by different entities or the same entity. The game service system can also be separate from the social networking system in the sense that the game service system is associated with one domain while the social networking system is associated with a separate social networking domain.

A user device comprises one or more computing devices that can receive input from a user and can transmit and receive data via the network . In one embodiment the user device is a computing system such as the exemplary system in . The user device can be a conventional computer system executing an operating system OS such as a Microsoft Windows compatible OS Apple OS X and or a Linux distribution. In another example the user device can be a mobile device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA mobile telephone smart phone or other mobile computing device. The user device is configured to communicate via the network . The user device can execute a user application for example a browser application that allows a user of the user device to interact with the social networking system . In another embodiment the user device interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API that runs on the native operating system of the user device such as iOS 4 and ANDROID . The user device is configured to communicate with the game service system and the social networking system via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks e.g. the Internet using wired and or wireless communication systems.

In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. Thus the network can include links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network can include multiprotocol label switching MPLS the transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP the User Datagram Protocol UDP the hypertext transport protocol HTTP the simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and the file transfer protocol FTP . The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including the hypertext markup language HTML and the extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec .

The user device includes the user application for displaying content from the game service system and or from the social networking system . For example in one embodiment the user device displays content from the game service system and or from the social networking system by processing a markup language document using a browser application. A markup language document can identify content and one or more instructions describing formatting or presentation of the content. By executing the instructions included in a markup language document the user application displays the identified content using the format or presentation described by the markup language document. In one such example the markup language document includes instructions for generating and displaying a web page having multiple frames that include text and or image data retrieved from the game service system and or from the social networking system . A markup language document may include a data file including extensible markup language XML data extensible hypertext markup language XHTML data or other markup language data. Additionally a markup language document may include JavaScript Object Notation JSON data JSON with padding JSONP and JavaScript data to facilitate lightweight data interchange between the user device and the game service system and or the social networking system . In one such example the user application includes a JavaScript compiler to decode such a markup language document.

The game service system includes one or more game service applications and game service storage . The game service system provides access to one or more multiplayer games via the one or more game service applications over the network . The multiplayer games can be role based games first person shooter games turn based games real time games synchronous action games asynchronous action games or any other games that involve multiple players in a game session. The game service system can provide web page content which the user device accesses via the network with the user application . While illustrated as being external to the social networking system the game service system may be a part of the social networking system in some embodiments.

The social networking system includes a web server an application programming interface API request server social data storage and platform storage . Social data storage stores social graphs such as the social graph of . Platform storage stores user preferences settings profile data and other information for operation of the social networking system . The social networking system includes platform applications. Examples of platform applications include applications for social interactions e.g. publishing posts pictures etc. as well as social games messaging services and any other application that uses the social platform provided by the social networking system . The web server links the social networking system to the user device and or the game service system via the network . The web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java Flash XML and so forth. The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and the user device . The messages can be instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS messages or any other suitable messaging format. The platform applications may have the ability to suggest friends.

The Application Programming Interface API request server allows one or more game service systems and user devices to access information from the social networking system by calling one or more APIs. The API request server may also allow the user device to send requests or information to the social networking website by calling APIs. The user device in one embodiment sends an API request to the social networking system via the network and the API request server receives the API request. The API request server processes the request by calling an API associated with the API request to generate an appropriate response which the API request server communicates to the user device via the network . In one embodiment the one or more game service systems communicate with the social networking system via APIs in the same manner as the user device .

Users of the social networking system can add connections to a number of other users of the social networking system to whom they desire to be connected. As used herein the term friend refers to any other user of the social networking system to whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via the social networking system . Connections may be added explicitly by a user or may be automatically created by the social networking system e.g. based on common characteristics of the users . For example a first user specifically selects a particular other user to be a friend. Connections between users of the social networking system are usually bilateral or mutual but connections may also be unilateral or one way. For example if Bob and Joe are both users of the social networking system and connected to each other Bob and Joe are each other s friends. If on the other hand Bob wishes to connect to Joe to view data communicated to the social networking system by Joe but Joe does not wish to form a mutual connection a unilateral connection may be established. The connection between users may be a direct connection however some embodiments of a social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections or degrees or separation.

The social networking system provides users with the ability to interact with each other through online games. A game management module of the social networking system manages information of the games that can be accessed and played via the social networking system . For example a user may log into the social networking system to play a game that is run on the social networking system or on one of the game service systems . The information managed by the game management module may be collected by the social networking system and or the game service systems . Examples of the information include both the players information such as the players names the players demographics and locations the skill rating of each player the people with whom each player has played in the past the number of times each player has completed a game each player s pace of game playing etc. and the social data of the user such as the user s friends friends of friends user profile user online social activities etc. .

In one embodiment the game management module of the social networking system selects a list of people from the shaded space which is within the second space but outside the first space . The shaded space represents the people who have a personal connection with the user but have not played the game. The game management module filters the people represented in the shaded space and selects a list of people that user may like to invite and are likely to accept the invitation from the user for playing the game. The game management module then presents the identified list to the user for user selection.

In one embodiment the list of people presented to the user is selected based on their closeness to the user in personal connection. The closer a user is to a person the more likely that the user will invite that person and that person will accept the user s invitation. The closeness may be indicated in or determined from profile information social interaction and or past online activities. For example a person s closeness to the user may be indicated in the profile information of the user and the person where the profile information indicates whether the person and the user live in or comes from the same city were graduated from the same school are in the same age group has the same gender speak the same language have the same demographics have the same taste e.g. like similar kinds of games music books food shows etc. have a large number of mutual friends and or other background status social and preference information. This information may be indicated in that person s account setting profile and preference settings.

Moreover a person s closeness to the user may also be determined or gathered from social interaction between the user and the person. The social interaction indicates whether the person frequently exchanges messages with the user frequently comments on or likes the user s posting frequently participates in the same events as the user has played other games with the user has invited the user to play other games and or other social interaction between the user and the person. The social interaction between a user and a person may be gathered from the user s history of messaging posting comments to posting likes uploaded images videos and participated events and activities. The social interaction may take into account the frequency and recentness of the interaction between the user and the person.

Additionally a person s closeness to the user may also be determined or gathered from the person s and or the user s past online activities such as whether the person frequently plays similar games to the one that the user is planning to play is similarly engaged in game plays as the user e.g. has similar reputation with respect to the number of quits before game completion plays games at a similar pace as the user has received and accepted invitations for any game from anyone before e.g. percentage of invitation acceptance which may be an indication of how likely this person will accept an invitation for game play has received invitations for any game from the user before which may be an indication of how likely the user will send an invitation to this person has sent any invitation to the user which may be an indication of how likely this person will accept an invitation from the user and or other past online activities. The past online activities may be gathered from logged activities in the social networking system. The past online activities may take into account the frequency and the recentness of these activities.

At block a social networking system receives a trigger for providing a user access to a game over the network from a user device. The network may be the network of . The trigger may occur at least in part by the user selecting an identifier of the game e.g. an icon a name a link or another indicator on the user device. The identifier of the game may be accessible from the user s home page or other pages in the social networking system or may be located by the user when entering the game title into a search tool provided by the social networking system. The trigger may also occur when the user logs into his her social networking account and or when a promotional campaign for the game begins. At block the social networking system identifies a pool of people who have a personal connection with the user and who have not played the game before. At block the social networking system selects a list of people from the pool of people based on their closeness to the user in the personal connection. This list is also referred to as a suggested list of people or suggested list of friends. The closeness is determined based on the social data of the user and the social data of each person in the pool. Examples of the social data source include but are not limited to information provided by the user to the social networking system information provided by game service systems hosting online game to the social networking system and information provided by other users of the social networking system. At block the social networking system sends the list of people to the user device for the user to selectively invite one or more of the people in the list to play the game. After the user makes a selection the social networking system or user then sends an invitation to the one or more of selected people to play the game with the user over the network. In some embodiments when the necessary number of players for the game accepts the invitation a new game session can be started.

In one embodiment at block the social networking system receives the selection made by the user indicating a selected person for playing a game. The social networking system determines at block whether the selected person is online before sending an invitation. If the selected person is online an invitation is sent to that person to start the game right away at block . If the selected person is not online an invitation to a future game is sent to that person at block . It is contemplated that co players of some asynchronous games do not have to be online at the same time. For example in a turn based game that is not under time control e.g. a chess game without a timer two players may be online at different times while playing against each other.

At block the social networking system collects social data of each user of the social networking system. The collected data includes the user profile information the user s social interaction with other users and other online activities of the user. At block the social networking system trends the collected data over a time period. Older data e.g. data collected over a week or month ago is discarded such that only recent data is use for trending social interaction and online activities. At block the social networking system determines a person s closeness to the user based on trended data in the time period. Blocks are repeated during the operation of the social networking system.

The message exchange of diagram begins with the social networking system receiving a trigger for providing access to a game to the user . The trigger may occur in response to one or more of the events described above with respect to block of . Upon receiving the trigger the social networking system identifies a pool of people who have a personal connection with the user and who have not played the game before . The social networking system then selects a list of people from the pool based on their closeness to the user .

The social networking system then sends the list to the user device for user selection . For each person in the list the social networking system may also send an indication of the reason why that person is selected if such information is not blocked for privacy concerns. The user selects one or more people from the list and sends the identifiers of the selected people to the social networking system . The social networking system then updates the social data to reflect the user s selection and sends an invitation to the selected one or more people . The social networking system then sends the identifiers of the people who accept the invitation to the game service system for starting a new game session . The social networking system also sends the information e.g. name profile photo etc. if such information is not blocked for privacy concerns of the one or more accepting participants to the user device as well as an interface for accessing the game service system to start the game . In one embodiment the social networking system sends HTML content for rendering by a browser application on the user device . The user may start the game by sending a request to the game service system via the interface . Alternatively the game may start automatically without the user sending a request. The game service system then starts a new game session for the user and the one or more accepting participants to play the game .

The GUI window also provides a search tool which enables the user to search for people places and things within the social networking system and the World Wide Web. When a user enters the title of a game that he she wishes to play the search tool will locate a link to the game service system hosting the game e.g. the game service system of . The link may be displayed on the GUI as an icon or an identifier identifying the game. When the user selects the link another GUI window is displayed that enables the user to select a person to play the game with. Although the selection of one person is described below it is understood that the following description applies to the selection of any number of people.

In one embodiment the social networking system can implement a machine learning mechanism that automatically learns from the user s selection. For example the social networking system can learn how often a particular person is selected by the user and adjust the weight assigned to the person based on the selection frequency. The social networking system can also learn which reason also referred to as a social attribute or attribute contributes the most to the closeness between the user and the selected person. The social networking system can adjust the weights or ranking of the attributes based on the machine learning. For example if the user consistently or frequently selects a person who lives in the same city the attribute same city can be given a higher weight than other attributes. If the user never or seldom selects people who speak the same language the attribute same language can be given a lower weight than other attributes. In an embodiment the weights of the social attributes can be changed by the user from a GUI window provided by the social networking system. A change in the weights of the social attributes may cause a different list of people to be selected by the social networking system as the suggested list of friends.

The computing system includes memory which is coupled to the microprocessor s . The memory may be used for storing data metadata and programs for execution by the microprocessor s . The memory may include one or more of volatile and non volatile memories such as Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM a solid state disk SSD Flash Phase Change Memory PCM or other types of data storage. The memory may be internal or distributed memory.

The computing system also includes an audio input output subsystem which may include a microphone and or a speaker for for example playing back music or other audio receiving voice instructions to be executed by the microprocessor s playing audio notifications etc.

A display controller and display device provides a visual user interface for the user. In an embodiment where the computing system is an exemplary representation of the user device of the display device may display the GUI windows illustrated in .

The computing system also includes one or more input or output I O devices and interfaces which are provided to allow a user to provide input to receive output from and otherwise transfer data to and from the system. These I O devices may include a mouse keypad or a keyboard a touch panel or a multi touch input panel camera optical scanner network interface modem other known I O devices or a combination of such I O devices. The touch input panel may be a single touch input panel which is activated with a stylus or a finger or a multi touch input panel which is activated by one finger or a stylus or multiple fingers and the panel is capable of distinguishing between one or two or three or more touches and is capable of providing inputs derived from those touches to the computing system .

The I O devices and interfaces may also include a connector for a dock or a connector for a USB interface FireWire Thunderbolt Ethernet etc. to connect the computing system with another device external component or a network. Exemplary I O devices and interfaces also include wireless transceivers such as an IEEE 802.11 transceiver an infrared transceiver a Bluetooth transceiver a wireless cellular telephony transceiver e.g. 2G 3G 4G or another wireless protocol to connect the computing system with another device external component or a network and receive stored instructions data tokens etc.

It will be appreciated that one or more buses may be used to interconnect the various components shown in .

In one embodiment the computing system is an exemplary representation of the user device of . The computing system may be a personal computer tablet style device a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone with PDA like functionality a Wi Fi based telephone a handheld computer which includes a cellular telephone a media player an entertainment system or devices which combine aspects or functions of these devices such as a media player combined with a PDA and a cellular telephone in one device. In another embodiment the computing system is an exemplary representation of a server computer in the social networking system of . In other embodiments the computing system may be a network computer server or an embedded processing device within another device or consumer electronic product. As used herein the terms computer system device processing device and apparatus comprising a processing device may be used interchangeably with the computing system and include the above listed exemplary embodiments.

It will be appreciated that additional components not shown may also be part of the computing system and in certain embodiments fewer components than that shown in may also be used in a computing system . It will be apparent from this description that aspects of the inventions may be embodied at least in part in software. That is computer implemented methods may be carried out in a computer system or other data processing system in response to its processor or processing system executing sequences of instructions contained in a memory such as memory or other non transitory machine readable storage medium. The software may further be transmitted or received over a network not shown via a network interface device . In various embodiments hardwired circuitry may be used in combination with the software instructions to implement the present embodiments. Thus the techniques are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software or to any particular source for the instructions executed by the computing system .

An article of manufacture may be used to store program code providing at least some of the functionality of the embodiments described above. Additionally an article of manufacture may be used to store program code created using at least some of the functionality of the embodiments described above. An article of manufacture that stores program code may be embodied as but is not limited to one or more memories e.g. one or more flash memories random access memories static dynamic or other optical disks CD ROMs DVD ROMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or other type of non transitory machine readable media suitable for storing electronic instructions. Additionally embodiments of the invention may be implemented in but not limited to hardware or firmware utilizing an FPGA ASIC a processor a computer or a computer system including a network. Modules and components of hardware or software implementations can be divided or combined without significantly altering embodiments of the invention.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. Various embodiments and aspects of the invention s are described with reference to details discussed herein and the accompanying drawings illustrate the various embodiments. The description above and drawings are illustrative of the invention and are not to be construed as limiting the invention. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the present invention. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to provide a concise discussion of embodiments of the present inventions.

It will be evident that various modifications may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the following claims. For example the methods described herein may be performed with fewer or more features blocks or the features blocks may be performed in differing orders. Additionally the methods described herein may be repeated or performed in parallel with one another or in parallel with different instances of the same or similar methods.

