---

title: Determining influence in a social networking system
abstract: An influence metric describing the influence of a social networking system object on social networking system users is determined based on affinities between the users and the object. For example, affinities between the associated users and the object are combined to determine the influence metric. Content may be selected for presentation to users based in part on influence metrics of the content. Additionally, influence metrics of objects associated with a user may be combined to determine the relevance of objects associated with the user, which may also be used to select content for presentation to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09659308&OS=09659308&RS=09659308
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09659308
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20161130
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 947 331 filed Nov. 20 2015 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 688 015 filed Nov. 28 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 224 174 each of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention relates generally to social networking systems and in particular to determining measures of influence for objects maintained by a social networking system.

A social networking system typically maintains a variety of objects which each represent data maintained by the social networking system. Examples of objects maintained by a social networking system include a user profile a page a page post a status update a photo a video a link a shared content item a gaming application achievement a check in event at a local business a brand page or any other type of content. As users perform interactions with social networking system objects the social networking system stores information identifying an interaction a user performing the interaction and an object associated with the interaction. Examples of interactions include viewing an object commenting on an object sharing an object expressing a preference for an object liking the object or other types of interactions.

The social networking system may determine the relevance of an object to a user based on interactions between the user and the object. For example the number of times the user interacts with an object the frequency with which a user interacts with the object communications by the user associated with the object an expression of the user s preference for the object and or other interactions with the object may be used to determine the relevance of the object to the user. In addition to allowing users to interact with objects the social networking system allows users to establish connections with other users to share information. These connections between users may be used to identify objects likely to be of interest to a user. For example if two users connected to each other frequently communicate via the social networking system the social networking system may infer that an object relevant to one of the users is likely to be also relevant to the other user.

Determining an object s relevance to a user based on the object s relevance to other users connected to the user has limitations. For example a first object may be very relevant to a first user but not relevant to a second user associated with the first user. Determining relevance based on user associations does not account for the universal relevance of the object to users throughout the social networking system the object s influence within the social networking system . Additionally determining an object s relevance based on connections between users does not account for users being in different geographic regions. For example if a user accesses the social networking system while on vacation in a foreign country objects associated with local businesses and tourist attractions may be less likely to be identified as relevant to the user as other users connected to the user are unlikely to have interactions with objects associated with entities in the foreign country.

A measure of an aggregate relevance of an object to users throughout a social networking system or the influence of the object is determined based on affinities that other users of the social networking system have for the object. In one embodiment a target object is identified from the social networking system and users associated with the target object are identified. Examples of a target object include a user profile a page a content item or any other suitable object within the social networking system. A user may be associated with the target object if the user has established a connection to the target object or has interacted with the object. For example if the target object is a user profile identified users associated with the user profile may have established connections with the user profile. As another example if the target object is a content item identified users associated with the target object may be users that have viewed the target object commented on the target object shared the target object or performed other suitable interactions with the target object.

An affinity between each user associated with the target object and the target object is determined. For example affinities stored by the social networking system are retrieved. A user s affinity for the target object may be a measure of relevance of the target object to a user a measure of a strength of relationship between the target object and the user or a measure of a value of the target object to the user. Interactions between a user and the target object are used to determine the user s affinity for the target object. For example the affinity between a user and the target object may be based on a number of interactions performed on the target object by the user based on a frequency of interactions performed on the target object by the user or based on types of interactions performed on the target object by the user.

The accessed affinities are combined to determine an influence metric for the target object. The accessed affinities can be combined by determining a median or mean of the affinities as the influence metric by adding the accessed affinities and using the sum as the influence metric or by multiplying the accessed affinities and using the product as the influence metric. In one embodiment the affinities are weighted as they are combined. For example affinities may be weighted based on how recently a user associated with an affinity performed an action allowing the affinities of users more recently interacting with the target object to be more highly weighted. The influence metric is stored for subsequent use. Influence metrics may be computed for multiple objects in the social networking system. The influence metrics may be periodically updated or influence metrics associated with different objects may be individually updated when a user interacts with an object associated with an influence metric.

Various actions may be performed by the social networking system based on influence metrics associated with objects. For example a story is selected for display to users of the social networking system based on the influence metric associated with the story. Influence metrics associated with stories may be used to order or rank stories presented in a newsfeed or in a news ticker. An influence metric associated with an object may also control how the object is identified to a user. For example an object s influence metric determines whether the object is presented to a user via a news feed or via a notification.

Additionally influence metrics associated with advertisements ads or with user profiles of users to which the ads are presented may be used when selecting ads. An advertiser may provide incentives for users having user profiles with at least a threshold influence score to allow the advertiser to sponsor actions of the users. Alternatively an advertiser may identify user actions to sponsor based on the influence scores of user profiles. Further location information or search results may be presented or ordered based on influence metrics associated with corresponding objects.

In one embodiment the influence metrics for a plurality of target objects associated with a particular user are combined into a relevance metric associated with the user which describes the overall relevance of objects associated with the user to the user. The relevance metric provides an indication of the influence of the objects associated with the user. To compute this relevance metric a set of objects associated with a user is identified and the influence metrics of each of the set of objects are combined to generate the relevance metric. As described above an object may be considered to be associated with the user if the user is connected to the object or has interacted with the object.

The relevance metric may be determined as the mean median sum product or other statistical measure of the influence metrics. In one embodiment the influence metrics may be weighted prior to combination. A relevance metric may be used to select content for presentation to the user associated with the relevance metric. For example content may be presented to users having a relevance metric above a threshold and not presented to users having a relevance metric below the threshold. As another example the social networking system may suggest actions to users based on the associated relevance metric.

Additionally relevance metrics for a set of users may be combined to form an aggregated relevance metric describing the relevance of objects associated with the set of users to the set of users. In one embodiment the set of users has a common characteristic. For example the set of users includes users with a common biographic characteristic or with a common geographic characteristic. Content presented to the set of users may be based on the aggregated relevance metric associated with the set of users. For example an advertiser may decide to present a particular advertisement to users in Germany rather than to users in Bolivia based on the aggregated relevance metrics for the different sets of users.

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

A client device is a computing devices capable of receiving user input as well as transmitting and or receiving data via the network . In one embodiment a client device is a conventional computer system such as a desktop or laptop computer. In another embodiment a client device may be a device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA mobile telephone smart phone or similar device. A client device is configured to communicate via the network . In one embodiment a client device executes an application allowing a user of the client device to interact with the social networking system . For example a client device executes a browser application to enable interaction between the client device and the social networking system via the network . In another embodiment a client device interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API that runs on the native operating system of the client device such as IOS or ANDROID .

The client devices are configured to communicate via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and wireless communication systems. In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. Thus the network may include links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G code division multiple access CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network may include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and file transfer protocol FTP . Data exchanged over the network may be represented using technologies and or formats including hypertext markup language HTML or extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some of links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec .

A third party website may be coupled to the network for communicating with the social networking system which is further described below in conjunction with . In one embodiment the third party website is an electronic mail server or another messaging server receiving messages from users and routing the received messages to other users for presentation via client devices . The third party website may maintain accounts for various users and directs messages to various user accounts to communicate messages or other content to the users.

Each user of the social networking system is associated with a user profile which is stored in the user profile store . A user profile includes declarative information about the user that was explicitly shared by the user and may also include profile information inferred by the social networking system . In one embodiment a user profile includes multiple data fields each data field describing one or more attributes of the corresponding user of the social networking system . The user profile information stored in user profile store describes the users of the social networking system . Examples of information stored in a user profile include biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history gender hobbies or preferences location and the like. A user profile may also store other information provided by the user for example images or videos. In certain embodiments images of users may be tagged with identification information of users of the social networking system displayed in an image. A user profile in the user profile store may also maintain references to actions by the corresponding user performed on content items in the content store and stored in the action log .

Additionally a user profile includes information for communicating with a corresponding user outside of the social networking system . For example the user profile includes one or more electronic mail email addresses for communicating content to the user through an email server or other third party website external to the social networking system . As another example a user profile includes a telephone number or other contact information for interacting with a corresponding user through a communication channel outside of the social networking system .

While user profiles in the user profile store are frequently associated with individuals allowing people to interact with each other via the social networking system user profiles may also be stored for entities such as businesses or organizations. This allows an entity to establish a presence on the social networking system for connecting and exchanging content with other social networking system users. The entity may post information about itself about its products or provide other information to users of the social networking system using a brand page associated with the entity s user profile. Other users of the social networking system may connect to the brand page to receive information posted to the brand page or to receive information from the brand page. A user profile associated with the brand page may include information about the entity itself providing users with background or informational data about the entity.

The content store stores objects representing various types of content. Examples of content represented by an object include a page post a status update a photo a video a link a shared content item a gaming application achievement a check in event at a local business a brand page or any other type of content. Objects may be created by users of the social networking system such as status updates photos tagged by users to be associated with other objects in the social networking system events groups or applications. In some embodiments objects are received from third party applications which may be external to the social networking system . Content items represent single pieces of content that are represented as objects in the social networking system . Users of the social networking system are encouraged to communicate with each other by posting text and content items of various types of media through various communication channels increasing the interaction of users with each other and increasing the frequency with which users interact within the social networking system.

The action logger receives communications about user actions on and or off the social networking system populating the action log with information about user actions. Such actions may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user uploading an image reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user among others. In some embodiments the action logger identifies interaction between a social networking system user and a brand page within the social networking system which communicates targeting criteria associated with content on the brand page to a content selector to customize content from the brand page. In addition a number of actions described in connection with other objects are directed at particular users so these actions are associated with those users as well. These actions are stored in the action log .

The action log may be used by the social networking system to track user actions on the social networking system as well as external websites that communicate information to the social networking system . Users may interact with various objects on the social networking system including commenting on posts sharing links and checking in to physical locations via a mobile device accessing content items or other interactions. Information describing these actions is stored in the action log . Additional examples of interactions with objects on the social networking system included in the action log include commenting on a photo album communications between users becoming a fan of a musician adding an event to a calendar joining a groups becoming a fan of a brand page creating an event authorizing an application using an application and engaging in a transaction. Additionally the action log records a user s interactions with advertisements on the social networking system as well as other applications operating on the social networking system . In some embodiments data from the action log is used to infer interests or preferences of the user augmenting the interests included in the user profile and allowing a more complete understanding of user preferences.

The action log may also store user actions taken on external websites such as third party website . For example an e commerce website that primarily sells sporting equipment at bargain prices may recognize a user of a social networking system through social plug ins that enable the e commerce website to identify the user of the social networking system . Because users of the social networking system are uniquely identifiable e commerce websites such as this sporting equipment retailer may use the information about these users as they visit their websites. The action log records data about these users including webpage viewing histories advertisements that were engaged purchases made and other patterns from shopping and buying.

In one embodiment an edge store stores the information describing connections between users and other objects on the social networking system as edges. Some edges may be defined by users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example users may generate edges with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Other edges are generated when users interact with objects in the social networking system such as expressing interest in a page on the social networking system sharing a link with other users of the social networking system and commenting on posts made by other users of the social networking system .

The edge store stores information describing characteristics of edges such as affinity scores for objects interests and other users. Affinity scores may be computed by the social networking system over time to approximate a user s affinity for an object interest and other users in the social networking system based on the actions performed by the user. Hence an object s affinity for another object may infer the relevance of the objects to each other. For example if a first user represented by a first node is connected to a second user represented by a second node with an edge associated with a high affinity and is also connected to a third user represented by a third node with an edge associated with a lower affinity an action taken by the second user may be inferred to be more relevant to the first user than an action taken by the third user. In another example if a user frequently views a first image but does not frequently view a second image a higher affinity may represent the connection between the user and the first image than the connection between the user and the second image. Accordingly the affinity between a user and an object may be affected by the number frequency or type of interactions between the user and the object by the type of association or connection between the user and the object and or by an inferred value of the object to the user such as common objects or information associated with both the user and the object. A user s affinity may be computed by the social networking system over time to approximate a user s affinity for an object interest and other users in the social networking system based on the actions performed by the user. Computation of affinity is further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 978 265 filed on Dec. 23 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Multiple interactions between a user and a specific object may be stored in one edge object in the edge store in one embodiment. For example two users may be connected by an edge representing a familial relationship an edge representing a tagging of a user in a photograph by the other user another edge representing a message from a user to the other user and so forth. If multiple edges connect two objects a combination of the affinities associated with each edge may be used to infer the relevance of the objects corresponding to the connected objects. For example the average weighted average sum weighted sum or other combination of the affinities associated with the edges may be used to make inferences about the relevance of the objects corresponding to objects connected to each other by multiple edges. For simplicity as used herein an affinity associated with an edge refers to a single affinity associated with the edge between nodes representing the objects although the single affinity may represent a combination of multiple affinities associated with multiple edges between objects. In some embodiments connections between users may be stored in the user profile store or the user profile store may access the edge store to determine connections between users.

The influence calculator determines an influence metric for a target object maintained by the content store or the user profile store . The influence metric describes the relevance of the target objects to overall users of the social networking system . Hence the influence metric describes a global relevance of an object to multiple social networking system users. As further described below in conjunction with the influence calculator identifies users associated with the target object based on data in the edge store and determines the influence metric for the target object based on the affinities associated with edges between the target object and the users associated with the target object. For example the influence metric may be a mean or median of the affinities between each of the users associated with the target object and the target object. It should be noted that in some embodiments the influence calculator can determine an influence metric for a set of target objects using the principles described herein. In such embodiments the influence calculator identifies users associated with one or more of the set of target objects determines affinities for the one or more of the set of target objects by each identified user and combines the determined affinities to determine the influence metric for the set of target objects.

The relevance calculator generates a relevance metric associated with a user from influence metrics calculated by the influence calculator . The relevance metric represented the relevance of objects associated with a user to the user. For example a user associated with objects that are highly relevant to the user may have a higher relevance metric than a user associated with objects less relevant to the user. In one embodiment a relevance metric quantifies an average relevance of a set of objects associated with a user e.g. objects with which the user interacted within a specified time interval however other methods of determining a relevance metric may be computed. A user with a high relevance metric may have a newsfeed or a news ticker including stories are more likely to be relevant to the user than a user with a lower relevance metric. Relevance metrics may be determined for multiple users having a specified characteristic and combined to form an aggregated relevance metric for the set of users by the relevance calculator . The aggregated relevance metric represents the relevance of objects associated with the set of users to the users in the set of users. Hence relevance metrics and aggregated relevance metrics may be used to select a user or a set of users for content selection.

The content selector selects content for presentation to a user of the social networking system . The content selector can select content to provide to a user based on influence metrics from the influence calculator and or relevance metrics from the relevance calculator . For example the content selector identifies objects having the highest influence metrics or having influence metrics of at least a threshold value for presentation in stories presented to a user. Additionally the content selector can rank stories displayed within a newsfeed or news ticker based on the influence metric of an object associated with each displayed story. Recommendations of objects or actions may also be made based on influence metrics associated with objects associated with the actions objects and or users. The content selector may also determining the order in which objects e.g. the order in which stories associated with objects are presented in a user s news feed based in part on the influence metrics associated with the objects.

Based on influence metrics the content selector may also maintain rankings of objects maintained by the social networking system . A ranking allows the content selector to identify the most influential objects maintained by the social networking system . The ranking may be provided to advertisers to encourage bidding for advertisements associated with more influential objects or may be used to recommend objects or actions for social networking system users.

Additionally the content selector may use an influence metric associated with an object to determine how the object is presented to a user. For example objects associated with the highest influence metrics or with influence metrics having at least a threshold value are presented to a user via a notification message. The notification message may be presented to the user via a mobile device and may be communicated to the user without being requested by the user.

Further advertisements ads may be selected by the content selector based at least in part on an influence metric associated with the ad with the user and or with an object associated with the user. For example an advertisement with at least a threshold influence metric may be presented to a user having an influence metric less than a threshold value. As another example the content selector identifies an object having at least a threshold influence metric and connected to the user and selects an advertisement associated with the identified object for presentation to the user. Advertisers may provide the social networking system with influence metric ranges influence metric thresholds or other descriptions of influence metrics when bidding for advertisement presentation by the social networking system .

Influence metrics associated with user profiles may be used by advertisers to sponsor distribution of stories describing actions taken by social networking system users. For example an advertiser may provide incentives to a user having at least a threshold influence value to increase the likelihood the user allows the advertiser to sponsor distribution of stories describing actions performed by the user. Examples of incentives provided to a user include sponsoring a user s purchase of an item offering a discount or rebate to a user purchasing an item crediting a user for future purchases of items associated with the advertiser or other suitable incentives. As an additional example an advertiser may provide a user with a premium experience such as a sample of a product a discount at a restaurant or other business free or discounted tickets to events and the like based on the user s influence metric. In return the user performs an action associated with the advertiser e.g. posting content to the social networking system checking in to a location attend an event upload an image or any other suitable action .

In some embodiments the incentive offered to a user is based on the user s influence metric allowing users with higher influence metrics to receive more substantial incentives than users with lower influence metrics. For example the incentives provided by the advertiser for a sponsored action by a user having an influence metric of at least a threshold value are greater than the incentives provided to a user having an influence metric less than the threshold value. If a user allows an advertiser to sponsor actions performed by the advertiser stories describing the user performing a sponsored action are presented to users connected to the user allowing the advertiser to sponsor actions. This allows advertisers to leverage the influence metrics of certain users to gain exposure and visibility among the users connected to the user.

Additionally the content selector may select objects for display in a map interface or may select objects for search results based on the influence metrics associated with the objects. For example the content selector identifies locations or events near a user based on location information received from a client device and influence metrics associated with objects associated with the locations or events. For example events advertisements or other objects associated with locations within a threshold distance of the location information having at least a threshold influence metric or having the highest influence metrics are displayed. Alternatively the influence metric associated with the user from which location information was received may be used to select objects for presentation. Further objects associated with search results may be ranked based on their corresponding influence metrics for example search results associated with objects having higher influence metrics are more prominently presented. As another example search results associated with objects having less than a threshold influence metric are not displayed.

In addition to selecting content influence metrics may be used to allocate other social networking system resources. For example increased bandwidth human operator time processing resources and other users may be allocated to users having the highest influence metrics or having at least a threshold influence metric. Resources for growing user interaction with the social networking system or a user base of the social networking system may similarly be allocated based on influence metrics. For examples users with high influence metrics and associated with certain regions or other categorizations may receive an increased number of recommendations offers and the like can be targeted to users to encourage engagement with the social networking system . Prioritizing resources for increasing user interaction to users in certain regions or categories based on influence metrics allows the social networking system to target growth in particular locations or categories.

Additionally the content selector may use relevance metrics when selecting content for users. This allows the content select to account for the relevance of content previously associated with a user when presenting content to the user. For example different types of objects may be selected for presentation to a user if the user is associated with a relevance metric less than a threshold value. As the relevance metric indicates the relevancy of objects associated with the user to the user if the objects associated with the user have a low relevance objects with different attributes may subsequently be selected for the user.

The content selector can also use aggregated relevance metrics in combination with influence metrics when selecting content for sets of users. For example the content selector can prioritize users in a set of users with an influence metric that is higher relative to the aggregated relevance metric of the set of users for selection and display of content. In addition aggregated relevance metrics can be used to target particular markets of users if a first set of users is associated with a higher aggregated relevance metric than a second set of users the content selector can select stories or ads for display to the second set of users. In such an embodiment the second set of users may have on average less relevant content displayed to them for instance in their newsfeeds than the first set of users and content selected for display by the content selector may accordingly be more relevant to the second set of users.

The web server links the social networking system via the network to the one or more client devices as well as to the one or more third party websites . The web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as JAVA FLASH XML and so forth. The web server may provide the functionality of receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and the client device for example instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS short message service messages or messages sent using any other suitable messaging technique. A user may send a request to the web server to upload information for example images or videos that are stored in the content store . Additionally the web server may provide API functionality to send data directly to native client device operating systems.

Affinities AC AC AC and ACbetween each of the users and the target object are determined from the edge store and combined by the influence calculator to generate the influence metric IMfor the target object . Affinities maintained by the social networking system are typically unidirectional so the affinities determined from the edge score are the affinities of the users for the target object . As described above in conjunction with the affinity between a user and the target object may be affected by the number frequency and type of interactions between the user and the target object by the type of connection between the user and the target object and or by an inferred value such as additional common objects or information associated with both the user and the target object . For example if the target object is a song if the user frequently listens to the song shares the song with other users and or purchases and downloads the song and if the user seldomly listens to the song the affinity coefficient ACassociated with the user may be higher than the affinity coefficient ACassociated with the user

The influence module combines the affinities AC AC AC and ACto determine an influence metric IMdescribing the relevance of the target object to users throughout the social networking system . For example the influence metric IMis the mean or median of the accessed affinities. Alternatively the influence module applies various weights to the accessed affinities and determines a mean or median of the weighted affinities. In one embodiment the accessed affinities are weighted based on times associated with interactions used to generate the affinities. For example an affinity associated with an interaction occurring 5 minutes ago is weighted more heavily an affinity associated with an interaction that occurred 3 days ago.

In some embodiments the influence module can combine the accessed affinities by determining IMto be the weighted or unweighted sum or product of the accessed affinities. In other embodiments any suitable combination may be performed using the affinities AC AC AC and AC. For example the influence module can normalize an influence metric based on the number of users associated with the target object or by the number of affinities retrieved by the influence module . In such an example an influence metric may be discounted if the set of users associated with the target object is less than a threshold number.

The influence module may also access affinities AC AC ACassociated with users also referred to individually and collectively using reference number associated with the target object via user indirectly associated users . For example affinities AC AC ACfor users connected to users associated with the target object but not directly associated with the target object are accessed and used to calculate the influence metric IMIn some embodiments the influence module discounts affinities associated with indirectly associated users based on the amount of attenuation between the target object and the indirectly associated users. For example affinities of users connected to users associated with the target object may be attenuated by 50 or another amount relative to affinities associated with users associated with the target object . The attenuation of affinities associated with indirectly associated users may increase based on the degree of separation between the target object and the indirectly associated users.

An influence metric IMmay be numeric or non numeric e.g. a ranking of high medium low and the like . The influence metric IMmay be stored in the user profile store or in the content store depending on whether the target object is a user profile or an object. In one embodiment an influence metric is determined and stored for each object including user profiles in the social networking system . The influence module may periodically update stored influence metrics or may update a stored influence metric when an interaction with the object is received. As described above in conjunction with the content selector may used influence metrics associated with objects when selecting content for presentation to a user.

Affinities between each of the users associated with the target object and the target object are determined and combined as described above in conjunction with to determine the influence metric of the target object. Additional information such as the number of users associated with the target object the recency of interactions between a user associated with the target object and the target object or other criteria may also be used when determining the influence metric. As described above in conjunction with the influence metric may be stored and subsequently used to select content for presentation to a user.

In the example of the relevance calculator identifies a user a page a post a user and an image associated with the target user . Also in the embodiment of the relevance calculator identifies objects associated with objects associated with the target user objects indirectly associated with the target user . For example the relevance calculator identifies additional objects associated with the post such as a user a location and a user . While illustrates limited types of objects associated with the target user any suitable type of object may be associated with the target user .

The relevance module determines the influence metrics IM IM IM IM and IMassociated with each object associated with the target user . As described above the influence metric of an object represents the object s influence to social networking system users. The influence metrics may be retrieved from the influence calculator from the user profile store and or from the content store . In one embodiment influence metrics may be modified or updated when the objects are identified by the relevance module . Additional information may be used along with the influence metrics when generating the relevance metric.

To generate the relevance metric RMassociated with the target user the relevance module combines the influence metrics IM IM IM IM IMassociated with the identified objects. For example the relevance metric RMis the mean median sum or product of the influence metrics. In some embodiments the influence metrics are weighted and the weighted influence metrics are combined to determine the relevance metric RM. For example the relevance calculator module weights influence metrics based on the type of object associated with an influence metrics e.g. influence metrics associated with objects may have higher weights than influence metrics associated with posts . As another example the influence metrics are weighted based on an affinity of the target user for the objects associated with the influence metrics e.g. a weight of an influence metric is proportional to the affinity of the target user for the object associated with the influence metric .

The relevance calculator may account for influence metrics for one or more objects indirectly associated with the target user when determining the relevance metric RM. In the example of influence metrics IM IM IMassociated with objects associated with the post the post but not directly associated with the target user are retrieved. The relevance calculator combines these influence metrics IM IM IMwith the influence metrics IM IM IM IM IMof objects directly associated with the target user to generate the relevance metric RM. In some embodiments influence metrics associated with indirectly associated objects may be attenuated the amount of attenuation may be based on the degree of separation between the target user and the indirectly associated objects.

A relevance metric RMmay be numeric or non numeric e.g. a high medium or low ranking . In one embodiment the relevance module determines a relevance metric for multiple users of the social networking system and stores the relevance metric associated with a user in the corresponding user profile in the user profile store . Stored relevance metrics may be periodically updated or may be updated when a user interacts with an object. Because the relevance metric RMassociated with the target user indicates the relevance of objects associated with the target user to the target user the relevance metric RMmay be used to infer the relevance of stories in a newsfeed or news ticker presented to the target user associated with objects associated with the target user .

The relevancy calculator retrieves an influence metric associated with each of the identified objects. In various embodiments the influence metric is retrieved from the influence calculator the user profile store and or the content store . The influence metrics are then combined by the relevancy calculator to determine the relevance metric. As described above in conjunction with the influence metrics may be combined in any suitable manner to generate the relevancy score.

The relevancy calculator may combine relevance metrics associated with a set of users to generate an aggregated relevance metrics for the set of users. Various criteria may be used to select the set of users. For example the set of users includes users having at least one common characteristic. Examples of the characteristic used to select the set of users include a common place of employment a common hometown a common geographic region a common interest a common hobby or other suitable characteristic. The relevance metrics associated with each user in the set may be combined in any suitable manner. For example the aggregated relevance metric is the mean or median of the relevance metrics. In one embodiment the relevance metrics associated with different users may be differently weighted and the weighted relevance metrics are combined to determine the aggregated relevance metric. Various characteristics of the users may be used when weighting the relevance metrics. For example relevance metrics may be weighted based on geographic criteria or demographic criteria influence metrics or other data associated with the users in the set of users.

Aggregated relevance metrics may be stored for different sets of users for use by the content selector in selecting content for users. For example an aggregated relevance metric is stored for sets of users in different countries for sets of users in different age ranges or for sets of users having any suitable common characteristic. In various embodiments the stored aggregated relevance metrics may be periodically updated.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

