---

title: Round-flat-round surgical braids
abstract: A surgical braid comprising two non-flat sections; a tape section, the tape section being generally flat, the tape section being positioned between the two non-flat sections; and the tape section comprising a single braid, and the two non-flat sections and the tape section being formed with a continuous and gap-less braid.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09610077&OS=09610077&RS=09610077
owner: EverestMedica LLC
number: 09610077
owner_city: Erie
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160307
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. Ser. No. 14 455 769 entitled SURGICAL BRAIDS filed Aug. 8 2014 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Ser. No. 62 029 951 entitled SURGICAL BRAIDS AND BRAIDING MACHINE filed Jul. 28 2014 U.S. Provisional Ser. No. 61 863 770 entitled SURGICAL BRAID filed Aug. 8 2013 and U.S. Provisional Ser. No. 61 935 244 entitled SURGICAL BRAID HAVING COLOR MARKINGS filed Feb. 3 2014 this application also is a continuation of PCT Application No. PCT US15 14307 entitled SURGICAL BRAID filed Feb. 3 2015 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Ser. No. 62 097 847 entitled SURGICAL BRAID filed Dec. 30 2014. The entire disclosures of the foregoing applications are hereby incorporated by reference.

Surgical braids are generally used by physicians and other medical professionals to close an open wound or otherwise repair tissue in an effort to facilitate proper healing. Surgical braids are also used by orthopedic surgeons for a variety of purposes such as securing ligaments and muscles to a bone. Surgical braids are typically formed by braiding together several strands of filaments fibers yarns and the like.

During operation the particular stitch and knot used by a surgeon can be important to the healing process of the wound. If stitched and tied improperly the surgical braid could damage tissue or not adequately secure the tissue. Surgical braids formed of a single color are often difficult for a medical professional to see and track. In particular due to the uniform color medical professionals have difficulty identifying movement and position of the surgical braid.

In general terms this patent document is directed to surgical braids and apparatuses and method for making surgical braids.

One aspect is a surgical braid comprising two non flat sections. A tape section is positioned between the two non flat sections and is generally flat. The two non flat sections and the tape section are formed with a continuous and gap less braid.

Another aspect of the surgical braid comprises two non flat sections. A tape section is positioned between the two non flat sections and is generally flat. The tape section comprises a single braid and the two non flat sections and the tape section are formed with a continuous and gap less braid.

Another aspect of the surgical braid comprises a plurality of strands braided into two non flat sections and a tape section the tape section being generally flat and positioned between the two non flat sections. The surgical braid further comprises first and second end portions and first and second transition portions. The first end portion is oppositely disposed from the second end portion. Two or more of the strands are continuously braided between the first and second end portions. The first transition portion positioned between one non flat section and the tape section the second transition portion positioned between the other non flat section and the tape section. The tape section comprises first and second edge portions extending between the first and second transition portions the first edge portion oppositely disposed from the second edge portion. The plurality of strands are interlaced into a single braid and a substantially uniform pattern as they pass through the tape section the single braid and substantially uniform pattern extends between the first and second transition portions and between the first and second end portions forming a single flat braid between the two non flat sections.

Various embodiments will be described in detail with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals represent like parts and assemblies throughout the several views. Reference to various embodiments does not limit the scope of the claims attached hereto. Additionally any examples set forth in this specification are not intended to be limiting and merely set forth some of the many possible embodiments for the appended claims.

For purposes of this patent document the terms or and and shall mean and or unless stated otherwise or clearly intended otherwise by the context of their use. The term a shall mean one or more unless stated otherwise or where the use of one or more is clearly inappropriate. The terms comprise comprises comprising have haves having include includes including and such as are interchangeable and are not intended to be limiting. For example the term including shall be interpreted to mean including but not limited to. All ranges provided herein include the upper and lower values of the range unless explicitly noted. Additionally unless stated otherwise or clearly intended otherwise by the content of their use shapes configurations structures values and the like can vary slightly due to a variety of circumstances such as manufacturing tolerances and variables variations in material such as the material s resiliency density stiffness compression and the like. Additionally terms such as connected are not limited to mean that structures are directly linked or fastened together but rather that they are operationally linked together such that there can be intervening structures.

The braiding assembly operates to feed the plurality of strands through the guide assembly and rotates the strands to braid them together. In at least some embodiments the braiding assembly includes horn gear assemblies bobbin carrier assemblies and transition mechanisms e.g. gates . An example braiding assembly is illustrated and described in more detail herein.

The braiding guide defines a hole or opening through which strands pass as they move from the braiding assembly to the take up mechanism . The braiding guide pulls the strands together to form the braid as the braiding assembly moves the strands along a path. In at least some embodiments the braiding guide mechanism includes an iris that defines the hole through which the strands pass and is capable of adjusting the cross sectional area of the hole. The braiding guide mechanism can have other embodiments in addition to the embodiments described herein.

The take up mechanism is configured to wind the braid therearound after the braid passes through the guide assembly . In at least some embodiments the take up mechanism includes a take up reel. The braid wound onto the take up mechanism can be manually delivered to post braiding processes such as cleaning or sterilizing the braid cutting the braid to length to form individual braids and other processing. In other embodiments the take up mechanism can be used to automatically convey the braid to the cutting system as described and illustrated in more detail herein.

As described in more detail herein the plurality of strands can include one or more trace strands that have a different color than the rest of the strands. The trace strands can be used to enhance visibility of the braid and help a surgeon distinguish between different sections of the braid . In at least some embodiments the braiding assembly can operate to alternate between braiding the strands into a braid having one pattern of trace strands and braiding the strands into a braid having a different pattern of the trace strands to produce a braid having a plurality of alternating patterns of trace strands. In alternative embodiments the braiding assembly can operate to alternate between braiding the strands using one color scheme and braiding the strands using a different color scheme. Other alternative embodiments can have a combination of varying patterns and color schemes.

In yet other embodiments the braid can have a plurality of tubular sections having a generally circular circumference and flat sections. For example the braiding assembly can operate to alternate between braiding the strands into a generally round tubular braid and braiding the strands into a flat braid to produce a braid having a plurality of alternating round and flat sections. The braid having the round section and the flat section also can include one or more colored trace strands to provide a pattern alternating patterns alternating colors or combinations thereof.

In some embodiments the braiding machine can include the pinching mechanism configured to operate to compress the braid to transform a round tubular section of the braid into an out of round section. For braids having a flat section the pinch rollers also can be used to minimize any curvature along the cross sectional area of the flat section. In at least some embodiments the pinching mechanism includes opposing pinch rollers A and B. The pinching mechanism operates to receive the braid between the pinch rollers A and B after the braid passes through the braiding guide mechanism . The pinch rollers A and B compress the braid such that the round tubular section compresses or transforms into the out of round section. The pinch rollers A and B can urge the round tubular section into a flatter profile.

The pinch rollers A and B are formed with a soft material having a hardness of about 50 durometers although other possible embodiments can have a hardness greater than or less than 50 durometers. A soft material compresses the braid more gently than a hard material e.g. metal or hard plastic so that the pinch rollers A and B will compress the round tubular sections of the braid into the out of round sections but not completely flatten the braid or damage the strands . The pinch rollers A and B can be made from a variety of materials such as a soft polymer. Additionally a spring assembly not shown urges the pinch rollers A and B towards one another to provide a force sufficient to compress the braid . The spring assembly includes springs not shown and set screws not shown that pass along the center of the springs. The set screws can be rotated to adjust the tension of the springs and the force that each of the pinch rollers A and B exerts against the braid . Other embodiments of the braiding machine do not include the pinching mechanism .

As describe in more detail herein the braiding track plate defines one or more tracks and as illustrated in configured to guide the plurality of bobbin carrier assemblies A P along defined paths. The plurality of bobbin carrier assemblies A P operate to carry strands around the braiding machine . The plurality of horn gear assemblies A H support and drive the bobbin carrier assemblies along one or more active paths defined by the active track on the braiding track plate . The plurality of horn gear assemblies A H support and drive the bobbin carrier assemblies along one or more passive paths defined by the passive tracks on the braiding track plate . The gates A H selectively guide the bobbin carrier assemblies A P from the active track to one or more passive tracks.

In the depicted embodiment the braiding assembly includes 16 bobbin carrier assemblies A P to produce a 16 end braid . Other embodiment can include any suitable number of bobbin carrier assemblies to make braids having any desired numbers of strands. For example alternative braiding assemblies could have 8 24 or 32 bobbin carrier assemblies or any other suitable number of bobbin carrier assemblies . The braiding assembly also can have different number of horn gear assemblies and along the active and passive tracks and different number of gates than illustrated in the exemplary shown in .

In at least some embodiments the horn gear assemblies can include a set of first horn gear assemblies A H and a set of second horn gear assemblies A H. In the depicted embodiment the set of first horn gear assemblies A H are active track horn gear assemblies and are arranged adjacent one another around a machine axis C. The first horn gear assemblies A H are operated so that that the bobbin carrier assemblies A P move across adjacent first horn gear assemblies A H. The first horn gear assemblies A H are operated in a manner that two adjacent first horn gear assemblies are rotated in opposite direction. For example the first horn gear assemblies A C E and G are rotated counter clockwise while the second horn gear assemblies B D F and H are rotated clockwise. In other embodiments the first horn gear assemblies can be configured to rotate in different manners. As described in more detail herein the first horn gear assemblies can be mechanically linked and operated together.

The second horn gears A H are passive track horn gears and are arranged radially outside the set of the first horn gear assemblies A H and are located adjacent the first horn gear assemblies A H respectively. In the depicted embodiment the set of second horn gear assemblies are paired in quadrants A D. For example the passive horn gear assemblies A and B are paired in a first quadrant A and operated to rotate in opposite directions. The passive horn gear assemblies A and B in the first quadrant A are arranged adjacent active horn gear assemblies A and B respectively so that at least one of the bobbin carrier assemblies A P can selectively move between the active horn gear assemblies A and B and the passive horn gear assemblies A and B in the first quadrant A. Similarly to the first quadrant A the second horn gear assemblies C and D are paired in a second quadrant B and operated to rotate in opposite direction. The passive horn gear assemblies C and D are adjacent active horn gear assemblies C and D. Similarly the third quadrant C includes second horn gear assemblies E and F which are adjacent active horn gear assemblies E and F respectively. The fourth quadrant D includes second horn gear assemblies G and H which are adjacent active horn gear assemblies G and H respectively.

In at least some embodiments and as described in more detail herein the passive horn gears A H in quadrants A D can be mechanically linked with an arrangement of gears or any other suitable structure to be operated together by a single motor connected to one of the second horn gear assemblies A H. In other embodiments each pair of passive horn gears in the quadrants A D can be independently operated by separate motors that are connected to one of the passive horn gears in the pair e.g. passive horn gear A in quadrant A . In yet other embodiment each of the passive horn gears A H are each connected to a separate motor and can be driven independently from each other.

In at least some embodiments the plurality of gates A H can be arranged between the active horn gear assemblies A H and the passive horn gear assemblies A H respectively. The gates A H can be selectively operated to enable at least one of the bobbin carrier assemblies A P to move between the active horn gear assemblies A H and their adjacent passive horn gear assemblies A H respectively. The structure and operation of the gates A H are described in more detail herein.

A plurality of passive tracks A D are also formed by grooves or slots A D respectively defined in the braiding track plate . The passive track A is in quadrant A and includes passive sub tracks A and B which are adjacent to active sub tracks A and B respectively. The passive track A is in quadrant B and includes passive sub tracks C and D which are adjacent to active sub tracks C and D respectively. The passive track C is in quadrant C and includes passive sub tracks E and F which are adjacent to active sub tracks E and F respectively. The passive track D is in quadrant D and includes passive sub tracks G and H which are adjacent to active sub tracks G and H respectively. The passive sub tracks A G correspond to passive horn gear assemblies A H respectively and guide the bobbin carrier assemblies A H as they are propelled by the passive horn gear assemblies A H as explained in more detail herein. Additionally the bobbin carrier assemblies A P can selectively move between the active track and one or more of the passive tracks A D as described in more detail herein.

The gates A H are positioned between active sub tracks A H and passive sub tracks A H respectively. Each gate A H has an open position and a closed position and define grooves or slots for guiding the bobbin carrier assemblies A P either between adjacent active and passive sub tracks e.g. A and A or along the active sub track and past the adjacent passive sub tracks e.g. along A and past A .

Referring to each gate includes a gate body that defines inter track slots or grooves A and B that form inter track paths and intra track slots or grooves A and B that form intra track paths. Each gate has an open position and a closed position.

When in the closed position as illustrated in the intra track groove or path A has both ends aligned with and open to opposing segments of the groove of active sub track A. The intra track groove or path A is configured to maintain a continuous path along the active sub track A that bypasses the adjacent passive sub track A and to guide the bobbin carriers to stay on the active sub track A and move past the adjacent passive sub track A. Similarly the intra track groove or path B has both ends aligned with and open to opposing segments of the groove of active sub track A. The intra track groove or path B is configured to maintain a continuous path along the passive sub track A that bypasses the adjacent active sub track A and to guide the bobbin carriers to stay on the passive sub track A and move past the adjacent active sub track A. An alternative embodiment of the gates might include only one intra track groove or path such as the intra track groove or path A to selectively maintain bobbin carrier moving along the active sub track A and past the passive sub track A. The inter track grooves or paths A and B are not aligned with either the active or passive tracks when the gate is in the closed position.

In the illustrated embodiment the gates can be rotatably nested in the braiding track plate such that the top surface of the gate body is flush with the top surface of the braiding track plate . In this embodiment at least the portion of the gates nested in the braiding track plate are cylindrically shaped. The gates can be rotatably supported on the braiding track plate in different manners. In some embodiments the gates can be held by the gate actuating system . In other embodiments the body of the gates can have a male projection configured to be slidably engaged with a corresponding slot groove shoulder ridge or similar structure formed in the braiding track plate . By defining the length or range of the slot the range of the rotational movement of the gates can be limited within the slot.

In at least some embodiments the gates are switched between the open and closed positions by rotating them 90 degrees. In other embodiments the gates can be movable between the open and closed positions by rotating them with a different angle than 90 . The gates can rotate in one direction to alternately move between the open position and the closed position. For example when the gates can rotate a certain degree e.g. 90 degrees clockwise from the open position the gate comes to the closed position. As the gates further rotate with the same amount of angle e.g. 90 degrees they come to the open position again. In other embodiments the gates can rotate both directions to move between the open and closed positions. In yet other configurations are possible in alternative embodiments.

Many alternative embodiments and arrangements of the active tracks passive tracks and gates are possible. These alternative embodiments enable greater flexibility for defining different paths for the bobbin carrier assemblies and enables the braider to make a wider variety of different braid structures and configurations. Referring to for example one or more gates can be positioned between adjacent active sub tracks to enable bobbin carrier assemblies to switch between travelling in the clockwise and counter clockwise directions along the active track. In the alternative embodiment gate I is positioned between active sub tracks A and G and gate J is positioned between active sub tracks D and E. Having two or more gates positioned between adjacent active sub gates enables bobbin carrier assemblies to be transported along separate closed or endless paths that traverse the clockwise and counterclockwise paths and of the active track . Referring to another alternative embodiment includes gates I P between each of the active sub tracks. illustrates yet another possible embodiment in which gates are positioned between the passive sub tracks Q T.

Additionally alternative embodiments can position the passive tracks in the center of the active track either instead of or in addition to passive tracks positioned outside of the active track as illustrated in . In for example a center passive track is positioned in the center of the active track and is adjacent one of the active sub tracks e.g. C . A gate is then positioned between the center passive track and the adjacent active sub track C. Alternative embodiments might include more than one passive track in the center of the active track . Alternative embodiments also can include center passive tracks that have two or more passive sub tracks. illustrates another possible embodiment in which there is an active track and one or more passive tracks A D arranged on the outside of the active track as illustrated in . In these alternative embodiments a center passive track has one or more passive sub tracks and which are positioned on the inside of the active track as illustrated in . Gate are positioned between passive sub track and active sub track C and between passive sub track and passive sub track .

Many different embodiments of the braider track plate active track passive tracks gates and various sub tracks are possible in addition to those illustrated and described herein. For example the active and sub tracks can be implement with any structure suitable for guiding the bobbin carrier assemblies including structures other than a braider track having a network of grooves or slots. There can be any number arrangements and configurations of the passive tracks which can have any structure that guides the bobbin carrier assemblies on a path other than the active track and path. For example the passive tracks can have no sub tracks or more than two sub tracks. The passive tracks also can include paths that are not generally circular as illustrated such as oblong arcuate and linear paths. Additionally the gates can be any structure suitable for guiding the bobbin carrier assemblies between the active track and a passive track or any structure suitable for guiding the bobbin carrier assemblies from one direction to another direction e.g. between clockwise and counterclockwise directions . Many other embodiments may be possible as well.

Furthermore certain designs of braids having various patterns and colors pattern changes color changes and structures such as round flat round structures alternating cores bifurcations a central braid with legs and the like are disclosed herein. Additional braids having various combinations of these colors patterns and structures can be made using the disclosed braiding machine having active and passive tracks and gates.

The bobbin holder is configured to support a bobbin and feed a strand from the bobbin . The bobbin holder is supported on the shaft above the carrier foot . In some embodiments the bobbin holder can include a first eyelet a second eyelet and a third eyelet . The strand is fed from the bobbin through the first eyelet and then through the second eyelet at a lower portion of the bobbin holder . The strand is then routed through the third eyelet and runs out of the bobbin holder to the braiding guide mechanism . The strand that is routed from the first eyelet through the second eyelet and through the third eyelet can maintain a proper tension before braiding. In the depicted embodiment the bobbin is vertically held by the bobbin holder . In other embodiments the bobbin holder can be configured to support the bobbin horizontally or at any other suitable angle or arrangement. In yet other embodiments the bobbin holder can have any structure suitable for holding the bobbin .

The carrier foot is configured to engage the active and passive horn gear assemblies A H and A H as disclosed in more detail herein. In at least some embodiments the carrier foot includes a first foot plate and a second foot plate . The first foot plate the second foot plate and the portion of the shaft extending therebetween engage a horn plate of the horn gear assemblies A H and A H.

The carrier guide includes one or more keels . In the depicted example the carrier guide includes two keels A and B. The keels can be supported on and project downward from the bottom of the second foot plate . The keels A and B are inserted into the track defined in the braiding track plate and the gates A H and guide the bobbin carrier assemblies along the paths defined by the track and the orientation of the gates A H. The keels are rotatable around their own axis of rotation which is orthogonal to the second foot plate . The keels A and B smoothly guide the bobbin carrier assemblies along the tracks and and through the gates A H while preventing the bobbin carrier assembly from spinning around the axis of the carrier shaft .

In at least some embodiment each of the active horn gear assemblies can include a horn gear plate and a suitable transmission member such as a gear . The horn gear plates are configured to support one or more of the bobbin carrier assemblies . The horn gear plate defines one or more notches open to its perimeter and arranged to receive the carrier shaft while the first foot plate rides along the top of the horn gear plate and the second foot plate rides between the horn gear plate and the braiding track plate . The keel is positioned within the active groove and slides along the active groove as the horn gear rotates and the horn plate propels the carrier shaft .

Each gear is configured to engage the gear of the adjacent active horn gear assemblies so that the active horn gear assemblies rotate simultaneously and at the same rate. The horn gear plate and the gear are connected through a horn gear shaft . In some embodiments the horn gear plate and the gear are arranged on or over different sides of the track plate . For example the carrier support member is arranged over the upper side of the track plate while the gear is arranged on the lower side of the track plate . In alternative embodiments the horn plate and gear are positioned on the same side of the track plate. Other embodiments are possible as well.

An actuating mechanism such as a servo motor is connected to the drive shaft and rotates the active horn gear assembly A and in turn rotates the other active horn gear assemblies B H through the chain of gears . An encoder is also connected to the active horn gear assembly to monitor the operational status and or conditions of the motor e.g. the angular locations of the horn gear assemblies . Alternative embodiments can use mechanisms other than a servo motor to rotate the active horn gears . An example of an alternative mechanism is a stepper motor.

In at least some embodiments all of the active horn gear assemblies can be operated by one servo motor with one encoder because all of the active horn gear assemblies A H are interconnected through the gears . In some embodiments the encoder can have a quad channel of about 2000 pulses channel. Alternative embodiments can have any number of motors to drive the active horn gear assemblies A H. For example each active horn gear assembly can be driven by a separate motor. In this embodiment the active horn gear assemblies A H do not have the gear because they are all driven independently. In other embodiments individual groups of adjacent active horn gear assemblies A H are driven by separate motors. For example active horn gears A D could be interconnected with one set of gears and driven by one motor and active horn gears E H could be interconnected with a second set of gears that are not interconnected with the first set of gear and driven by a second motor. Additionally transmission mechanisms other than gears can be used to interconnect and rotate the active horn gear assemblies A H. Belts are an example of such an alternative transmission mechanism.

An actuating mechanism such as a servo motor is connected to the drive shaft and rotates the passive horn gear assembly F and in turn rotates passive horn gear assembly E through the interconnection of gears . In this embodiment however the motor connected to the passive horn gear F does not cause passive horn gears A D or G H to rotate. An encoder also is connected to the passive horn gear assembly F to monitor the operational status and or conditions of the motor and passive horn gears F and E e.g. the angular locations of the horn gear assemblies F and E . In some embodiments the encoder can have a quad channel of about 2000 pulses channel. Alternative embodiment can use mechanisms other than a servo motor to rotate the passive horn gears F and E. An example of an alternative mechanism is a stepper motor. The structure of the other pairs of passive horn gears A and B C and D and G and H are substantially similar to the pair of passive horn gears E and F.

Alternative embodiments can have any number of motors to drive the passive horn gears A H. For example all of the passive horn gear assemblies A H could be interconnected through a common chain of gears or other transmission mechanisms such as belts and then driven by a single motor. In yet other embodiments each passive horn gear assembly A H can be driven by a separate motor. In this embodiment the passive horn gear assemblies A H do not have the gear because they are all driven independently.

As described herein the active horn gear assemblies A H and the passive horn gear assemblies A H are operated independently from each other. In this configuration teeth of the gears and do not mesh or otherwise engage each other. In one possible embodiment the gears and have the same diameter but the centerline for the horn gear shafts and are separated by a distance greater than the diameter. In an alternative embodiment the gears and have different diameters.

The gate is positioned between the active and passive horn gear assemblies G and G. A gate actuating system is connected to the gate and rotates the gate between open and closed positions. In at least some embodiments the gate actuating system can be a hydraulic operating system. The hydraulic operating system can include a hydraulic motor. Examples of the hydraulic motor include a gear and vane motor a gerotor motor an axial plunger motor a radial piston motor and other motors of any type suitable for actuating the gate . In other embodiments the gate actuating system can include a linear actuator and linkage configured to rotate the gate between positions. In other embodiments the gate actuating system can include one or more solenoids of any type such as electromechanical solenoids rotary solenoids rotary voice coils pneumatic solenoid valves and hydraulic solenoid valves. In yet other embodiments the gate actuating system can include a pneumatic operating system. For example the pneumatic operating system can include a pneumatic indexer rack and pinion arrangement or a belt. In yet other embodiments the gate actuating system can include a motor such as a servo or stepper motor. In this configuration the angular location of the gate can be monitored through an encoder. In yet other embodiments the gate can be operated by other arrangement suitable for rotating the gate . In yet other embodiments the gate can be operated by either or both of the active track motor or the passive track motor .

The first and second spools and are configured to draw the braid from the braiding machine and retain them for the subsequent cutting process by the cutting system . In at least some embodiments one of the first and second spools and operates to take off the braid from the braiding machine thereby being referred to as a takeoff roller or spool. In at least some embodiments the takeoff spool is powered by a servo motor to control the angular speed of the spool. The other spool of the first and second spools and is not operated by a separate power source and configured to freely spin. This spool can also be referred to herein as an idler spool. As depicted the first and second spools and are bound by the wrapped braid and thus the idler spool rotates at the same rate as the takeoff spool which is operated by the servo motor. In at least some embodiments the takeoff spool is operated by a stepper motor.

In at least some embodiments the braid wraps around the set of the spools and multiple times to reduce a tension T on the braid until the braid has a predetermined exit tension T at the outlet of the set of the spools and . The predetermined exit tension T can be selected to be suitable for the cutting process by the cutting system . In general the wraps of the braid increase around the spools and the exit tension T of the braid decreases. The spools and wrap the braid to constantly maintain the exit tension T less than the original tension T on the braid . In at least some embodiments the braid is wrapped between 2 to 10 times to provide a proper exist tension. In other embodiments the braid is wrapped 4 or 5 times. In yet other embodiments the braid is wrapped around the spools.

The gripping devices and along with a linear rail or actuator of the cutting system are used to keep tension on the braid during heating and cutting operations. In at least some embodiments at least one of the gripping devices and can be operated to move at the speed of the braid which can be calculated from the takeoff speed.

The gripping devices and are operated by actuating mechanisms and respectively. In at least some embodiments the actuating mechanisms and can include servo motors. The servo motors can include encoders and configured to monitor the operational status and or conditions of the servo motor. In other embodiments the actuating mechanisms and can include stepper motors.

The first gripping device is configured to move along a conveying line L and operates to pull the braids to predetermined points and or with predetermined tensions on the braid as the braid exits from the first and second spools and . In at least some embodiments the first gripping device operates to contact the braid and create pressure onto the braid so that the braid does not slip along the conveying line L. In at least some embodiments the first gripping device is controlled by a linear actuator driven by a servo motor. In other embodiments the first gripping device is operated by a stepper motor. In at least some embodiments this motor is configured as a slave of the motor that operates the takeoff spool as illustrated above. By taking input from the motor of the takeoff spool the first gripping device is operated at the same speed as the braid and thus the exit tension of the braid can be maintained properly to continue a consistent braid. Further this configuration allows controlling the position of the transition braid accurately.

In at least some embodiments the second and third gripping devices and can be stationary while the first gripping device is configured to be linearly movable. In other embodiments as described in more detail herein one of the second and third gripping devices and can move while the first gripping device is movable in order to prevent interference to the braiding machine during cutting process. In yet other embodiments both of the second and third gripping devices and can move either independently or as a unit as the first gripping device is movable.

The heating device is operated by a heater actuating mechanism . In at least some embodiments the heater actuating mechanism can include a hydraulic operating system. The hydraulic operating system can include a hydraulic motor. Examples of the hydraulic motor include a gear and vane motor a gerotor motor an axial plunger motor a radial piston motor and other motors of any type suitable for actuating the gate . In other embodiments the heater actuating mechanism can include one or more solenoids of any type such as electromechanical solenoids rotary solenoids rotary voice coils pneumatic solenoid valves and hydraulic solenoid valves. In yet other embodiments the heater actuating mechanism can include a pneumatic operating system. For example the pneumatic operating system can include a pneumatic indexer rack and pinion arrangement or a belt and a stepper motor or servo motor arrangement. In yet other embodiments the heater actuating mechanism can include a motor such as a servo motor. In this configuration the angular location of the motor can be monitored through a motor encoder. In yet other embodiments the motor can be a stepper motor. In yet other embodiments the heating device can be operated by other arrangement suitable for actuating the heating device .

The cutting device can be operated by a cutter actuating mechanism . The cutter actuating mechanism can be configured in a similar manner to the actuation of the heating device . Thus the description for the cutter actuating mechanism is omitted for brevity purposes.

The method typically begins at the operation where the first gripping device is operated to grip the braid at a first location . In at least some embodiments the first location A is located between the take up reel including the first and second spools and and the second gripping device . In other embodiments the first location A can be defined at a different position.

At the operation the first gripping device is advanced in a forward direction Dalong the conveying line L as the braiding machine operates. In at least some embodiments the first gripping device can be operated at the same speed as the takeoff speed of the braid i.e. the speed at which the braid is drawn at the takeoff spool to maintain a proper tension on the braid . In other embodiments the speed of the first gripping device can be adjusted based upon different factors.

At the operation the braiding machine is stopped when the braid reaches a predetermined braid length or cut point. The predetermined braid length or cut point can be set and input by an operator or automatically calculated by the control system based upon other operational parameters input by the operator. For example as described herein the braid length can be calculated from the takeoff speed which can be determined by a given pick count and a given table speed.

At the operation the second gripping device which is stationary can operate to grip the braid at a second position B. At this operation the second position B is located between the set of the spools and i.e. the take up reel and the first gripping device . In at least some embodiments the second gripping device is arranged between the take up reel including the first and second spools and and the heating device . In other embodiments the second gripping device can be positioned between the take up reel and the cutting device . In yet other embodiments the second gripping device can be arranged at a different position.

At the operation which is optional the first gripping device can be operated to advance in the forward direction Dto create a predetermined tension of the braid . The operation can be a preliminary step at which the braid is properly stretched out over the heating device by the first and second gripping device and before the braid is heated at the operation .

At the operation the heating device is operated to heat a portion of the braid that is to be cut by the cutting device . In at least some embodiments the heating device is moved around the portion of the braid and operates for a predetermined period of time at a set temperature. In at least some embodiments the heating device is arranged between the first gripping device and the second gripping device . In at least some embodiments the heating device is a non contact heat block. Once the braid is heated at the set temperature the heating device can retract.

At the operation the second gripping device operates to open to release the braid . At the operation the first gripping device is operated to advance in the forward direction Duntil the heated portion of the braid is lined up with the cutting device . In at least some embodiments the cutting device can be arranged between the heating device and the first gripping device . In other embodiments the cutting device can be arranged at different locations.

At the operation the second gripping device is operated to grip the braid when the braid is in a predetermined position for cutting with respect to the cutting device . At the operation which is optional the first gripping device is operated to advance a predetermined distance in the forward direction D. This operation can be performed to provide a predetermined tension to the braid to stretch out the braid between the first and second gripping devices and before the braid is cut at the operation .

At the operation the third gripping device is operated to grip the braid at a third location C. In at least some embodiments the third location C is located between the cutting device and the first gripping device . In other embodiments the third location C is arranged in different positions.

At the operation the cutting device is operated to cut the braid between the first and third gripping devices and . In at least some embodiments the cutting device operates to move around the braid and shear the braid . At the operation the third gripping device operates to open to release the braid at the third location C after the braid is sheared. At the operation the first gripping device operates to advance in the forward direction Dto place the sheared braid over the tray . At the operation the first gripping device operates to release the braid to drop the braid into the tray . At the operation the first gripping device returns in the rearward direction Dto the first location A.

At the operation the first gripping device operates to grip a new braid at the first location A. Since the operation the second gripping device can remain closed to maintain the proper exit tension of the braid until the first gripping device moves back to the first location A adjacent the second gripping device to grip a new portion of the braid .

At the operation the second gripping device operates to open and release the braid when the first gripping device returns and grips the braid near the second gripping device . At the operation the braiding machine resumes its operation and continues the braiding process. Then the method returns to the operation .

Although the second and third gripping devices and are stationary in this embodiment either or both of the second and third gripping devices and can be configured to move. In some embodiments the third gripping devices can be linearly operated as the first gripping device moves. In this configuration the first gripping device and the third gripping device can be alternately operated to grip and convey the braid in the forward direction D. For example when the first gripping device grips the braid and moves it away from the cutting device in the conveying direction L the third gripping device can stay adjacent the cutting device . Then as the first gripping device returns close to the cutting device after dropping the braid onto the tray the third gripping device can be operated to grip another braid and move it from the cutting device in the forward direction D. In this case the alternating movements of the first and third gripping device and can enable the operation of the braiding machine without interruption or pause during cutting process. In other embodiments the second gripping device can be selectively operated to move depending on the movement and or location of the first gripping device . The second gripping device can move at a lower speed than the first gripping device .

In some embodiments the cutting system does not employ either of the second gripping device and the third gripping device . In other embodiments the cutting system can only use the first gripping device to perform the same or similar operations as described herein.

The cutting system in this embodiment may be operated in the same manner as in except that the carrier is operated to move in a forward direction Dso that the braiding machine continues to braid without interruption. The carrier moves in the forward direction Duntil the first gripping device moves back in a rearward direction Dto grip a new section of the braid after one cycle of cutting process. When the first gripping device grips the braid the carrier can move back in the rearward direction Dto return to its original position. An example operation of the cutting system with the carrier is illustrated in more detail with reference to

The method typically begins at the operation where the first gripping device is operated to grip the braid . In at least some embodiments the first gripping device first grips the braid between the take up reel including the first and second spools and and the second gripping device . In other embodiments the first gripping device can grip the braid at a different position.

At the operation the carrier is advanced in a forward direction Dalong the conveying line L as the braiding machine operates. In at least some embodiments the carrier can be operated at the same speed as the takeoff speed of the braid i.e. the speed at which the braid is drawn at the takeoff spool to maintain a proper tension on the braid . In other embodiments the speed of the carrier can be adjusted based upon different factors.

At the operation the first gripping device is operated to advance in the forward direction Dfaster than the carrier as the carrier continue to move in the forward direction D. At the operation the second gripping device which is moving as part of the carrier can operate to grip the braid when the braid reaches a predetermined braid length or cut point. The predetermined braid length or cut point can be set and input by an operator or automatically calculated by the control system based upon other operational parameters input by the operator. For example as described herein the braid length can be calculated from the takeoff speed which can be determined by a given pick count and a given table speed.

The second gripping device at the operation can grip the braid between the set of the spools and i.e. the take up reel and the first gripping device . In at least some embodiments the second gripping device is arranged between the take up reel including the first and second spools and and the heating device . In other embodiments the second gripping device can be positioned between the take up reel and the cutting device . In yet other embodiments the second gripping device can be arranged at a different position.

At the operation which is optional the first gripping device can be operated to advance in the forward direction Dto create a predetermined tension of the braid . The operation can be a preliminary step at which the braid is properly stretched out over the heating device by the first and second gripping device and before the braid is heated at the operation . At the operation the heating device is operated to heat a portion of the braid that is to be cut by the cutting device . In at least some embodiments the heating device is moved around the portion of the braid and operates for a predetermined period of time at a set temperature. In at least some embodiments the heating device is arranged between the first gripping device and the second gripping device . In at least some embodiments the heating device is a non contact heat block. Once the braid is heated at the set temperature the heating device can retract.

At the operation the second gripping device operates to open to release the braid . At the operation the first gripping device is operated to advance faster than the carrier in the forward direction Duntil the heated portion of the braid is lined up with the cutting device . In at least some embodiments the cutting device can be arranged between the heating device and the first gripping device . In other embodiments the cutting device can be arranged at different locations.

At the operation the second gripping device is operated to grip the braid when the braid is in a predetermined position for cutting with respect to the cutting device . At the operation which is optional the first gripping device is operated to advance faster than the carrier a predetermined distance in the forward direction D. This operation can be performed to provide a predetermined tension to the braid to stretch out the braid between the first and second gripping devices and before the braid is cut at the operation .

At the operation the third gripping device is operated to grip the braid . In at least some embodiments the third gripping device grips the braid between the cutting device and the first gripping device . In other embodiments the third gripping device is arranged to grip the braid in different positions.

At the operation the cutting device is operated to cut the braid between the first and third gripping devices and . In at least some embodiments the cutting device operates to move around the braid and shear the braid . At the operation the third gripping device operates to open to release the braid at the third location C after the braid is sheared. At the operation the first gripping device operates to advance faster than the carrier in the forward direction Dto place the sheared braid over the tray . At the operation the first gripping device operates to release the braid to drop the braid into the tray . At the operation the first gripping device returns in the rearward direction Dto the first location A.

At the operation the first gripping device operates to grip a new braid . In at least some embodiments the first gripping device can grip the braid between the take up reel and the second gripping device . In other embodiments the first gripping device can grip the braid at a different position.

Since the operation the second gripping device can remain closed to maintain the proper exit tension of the braid until the first gripping device moves back to the first location A adjacent the second gripping device to grip a new portion of the braid . At the operation the second gripping device operates to open and release the braid when the first gripping device returns and grips the braid near the second gripping device . At the operation the carrier returns to its original location. Then the method returns to the operation .

The braid can be fed from the braiding machine to the circular track to route therearound. The cutting system can include one or more gripping devices . In the depicted embodiment the cutting system includes three gripping devices A B and C. The gripping devices can independently move along the circular track in a conveying direction L.

In at least some embodiments the heating device and the cutting device is movably arranged out of the circular track . For example the heating device and or the cutting device can be extended to the circular track when the braid is arranged in position on the circular track for heating and or shearing. In other embodiments the heating and or cutting devices and can be operated in different manners.

The principle of the operation of the cutting system in this embodiment is similar to the cutting system illustrated in except that the three gripping devices A C alternately change their roles as the first second and third gripping devices and as illustrated in . For example once the gripping devices C A and B operate as the first second and third gripping devices and respectively to complete one cycle of the cutting process the gripping device C moves around the circular track and functions as the second griping device . In this case the gripping device B becomes to work as the first gripping device and the griping device A operates as the third gripping device to perform the next cycle of the cutting process. In other embodiments other configurations are possible.

One of the spools and are driven by a spool actuating mechanism . In at least some embodiments the spool actuating mechanism can include a servo motor . The operational status and or conditions of the servo motor can be monitored a spool motor encoder attached to the spool motor . The status and or conditions e.g. the angular location of the motor or the takeoff spool obtained by the spool motor encoder is fed back to the cutter control system and used to control the cutting system . In other embodiments the spool motor is a stepper motor. In yet other embodiments the spool actuating mechanism can be configured in different manners.

The spool motor can be controlled independently from the active track and passive track motors and in order to allow changing the pick count of the braid. In at least some embodiments the pick counts and the horn gear rotations i.e. table speeds can be used to calculate the length of the braid which can be used in the cutting system .

The braider controller is configured to control at least some of the components of the braiding system . Examples of the braider controller include a programmable logic controller PLC and a computer numerical control CNC . Although the depicted embodiment of the braider controller is primarily illustrated as a PLC the braider controller can be of any type suitable for controlling the braiding machine as desired.

The braider controller is connected to the servo drives and communicates with the servo drives to control the servo motors and .

The braider sensors operate to monitor the status position and or operation of the components of the braiding machine . For example the sensors can be used to detect the relative positions of the bobbin carrier assemblies the horn gear assemblies and or the gates . Examples of the sensors include proximity sensors and cameras.

The servo drives are configured to operate the motors and based upon signals from the braider controller . For example the servo drives can operate to receive a command signal from the braider controller amplify the signal and transmit electric current to the servo motors and in order to produce motion of the motors proportional to the command signal. Other configurations are also possible. The encoders and attached to the motors and operates to report the motors actual status back to the servo drives and or the braider controller . Then the servo drives can compare the actual motor status with the command motor status and alter the voltage frequency or pulse with to the motors so as to correct for any deviation from the commanded status.

The control computing device operates to manage both of the braider controller and the cutter controller . An example of the control computing device is illustrated and described in more detail with reference to .

The program is executed in the control computing device to control the braider controller and the cutter controller . The program contains a variety of algorithms for different operations of the braiding machine and the cutting system . In at least some embodiments the control computing device can be provided with different programs for different types of braid such as different patterns of one or more trace strands and or alternating flat round sections as described herein. The programs are composed based upon a plurality of operational parameters which are described herein.

The user interface provides an interface for an operator to interact with to input user instructions and commands to the control computing device and to monitor the status of the braiding machine and the cutting system .

The cutter controller is configured to control at least some of the components of the cutting system . Examples of the braider controller include a programmable logic controller PLC and a computer numerical control CNC . Although the depicted embodiment of the cutter controller is primarily illustrated as a PLC the cutter controller can be of any type suitable for controlling the braiding machine as desired.

The cutter sensors operate to monitor the status position and or operation of the components of the cutting system . For example the cutter sensors can be used to detect the relative positions of the gripping devices and the heating device and or the cutting device . Examples of the sensors include proximity sensors and cameras.

The servo drives including A C are configured to operate the motors and upon signals from the cutter controller . For example the servo drives can operate to receive a command signal from the cutter controller amplify the signal and transmit electric current to the servo motors and in order to produce motion of the motors proportional to the command signal. Other configurations are also possible. The encoders and attached to the motors and operates to report the motors actual status back to the servo drives and or the cutter controller . Then the servo drives can compare the actual motor status with the command motor status and alter the voltage frequency or pulse with to the motors so as to correct for any deviation from the commanded status.

In at least some embodiments the braiding machine and the cutting system can be controlled depending on a plurality of operational parameters. An operator of the system can interact with the user interface to input one or more of the operational parameters. Examples of the operational parameters include transition points of pattern pick counts take off speeds table speeds i.e. the rotation speeds of the horn gear assemblies or the motors thereof braid lengths cut locations temperatures of the heating device a heating time and the total number of parts per lot. The braid transition points indicate points of the braid at which the patterns of the braid and or the braiding types of the braid change. The pick counts indicate the number of crossovers of alternate endings in a given length of the braid . The pick counts can change as the patterns and or types vary. The take off speeds is a speed of the braid that takes off from the braiding machine . For example the take off speeds can be calculated from the operation of one or both of the first and second spools and i.e. the take up reel . In at least some embodiments the braid lengths are used to determine the cut locations of the braid to produce desired lengths of individual braids. The cut locations can be used to determine the locations of the cutting device .

The pick counts the take off speeds the table speeds and the braid lengths are all related. For example the take off speeds can be calculated from the pick counts and the table speeds. Also the braid lengths can be calculated from the take off speeds. In at least some embodiments therefore the operator can input the pick counts and the table speeds into the control computing device via the user interface to adjust the take off speeds and thus the braid lengths .

The cutter controller is also operated based upon the operational parameters input to the control computing device . In at least some embodiments based upon these parameters the cutter controller can control the linear rail speeds the movements and or positions of the gripping devices the cut locations the temperatures of the heating device the number of heating processes and or the number of cutting cycles.

In at least some embodiments the braider controller and the cutter controller can be separately controlled by a single control computing device or multiple control computing devices.

The term computer readable media as used herein may include computer storage media and communication media. As used in this document a computer storage medium is a device or article of manufacture that stores data and or computer executable instructions. Computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable devices or articles of manufacture implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. By way of example and not limitation computer storage media may include dynamic random access memory DRAM double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory DDR SDRAM reduced latency DRAM DDR2 SDRAM DDR3 SDRAM solid state memory read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable ROM optical discs e.g. CD ROMs DVDs etc. magnetic disks e.g. hard disks floppy disks etc. magnetic tapes and other types of devices and or articles of manufacture that store data. Accordingly in the embodiments contemplated herein computer storage media includes at least some tangible medium or device. In certain embodiments computer storage media includes non transitory media and or devices. Communication media may be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may describe a signal that has one or more characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media.

In the example of the computing device includes a memory a processing system a secondary storage device a network interface card a video interface a display unit an external component interface and a communication medium . The memory includes one or more computer storage media capable of storing data and or instructions. In different embodiments the memory is implemented in different ways. For example the memory can be implemented using various types of computer storage media.

The processing system includes one or more processing units. A processing unit is a physical device or article of manufacture comprising one or more integrated circuits that selectively execute software instructions. In various embodiments the processing system is implemented in various ways. For example the processing system can be implemented as one or more processing cores. In another example the processing system can include one or more separate microprocessors. In yet another example embodiment the processing system can include an application specific integrated circuit ASIC that provides specific functionality. In yet another example the processing system provides specific functionality by using an ASIC and by executing computer executable instructions.

The secondary storage device includes one or more computer storage media. The secondary storage device stores data and software instructions not directly accessible by the processing system . In other words the processing system performs an I O operation to retrieve data and or software instructions from the secondary storage device . In various embodiments the secondary storage device includes various types of computer storage media. For example the secondary storage device can include one or more magnetic disks magnetic tape drives optical discs solid state memory devices and or other types of computer storage media.

The network interface card enables the computing device to send data to and receive data from a communication network. In different embodiments the network interface card is implemented in different ways. For example the network interface card can be implemented as an Ethernet interface a token ring network interface a fiber optic network interface a wireless network interface e.g. WiFi WiMax etc. or another type of network interface.

The video interface enables the computing device to output video information to the display unit . The display unit can be various types of devices for displaying video information such as a cathode ray tube display an LCD display panel a plasma screen display panel a touch sensitive display panel an LED screen or a projector. The video interface can communicate with the display unit in various ways such as via a Universal Serial Bus USB connector a VGA connector a digital visual interface DVI connector an S Video connector a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI interface or a DisplayPort connector.

The external component interface enables the computing device to communicate with external devices. For example the external component interface can be a USB interface a FireWire interface a serial port interface a parallel port interface a PS 2 interface and or another type of interface that enables the computing device to communicate with external devices. In various embodiments the external component interface enables the computing device to communicate with various external components such as external storage devices input devices speakers modems media player docks other computing devices scanners digital cameras and fingerprint readers.

The communications medium facilitates communication among the hardware components of the computing device . In the example of the communications medium facilitates communication among the memory the processing system the secondary storage device the network interface card the video interface and the external component interface . The communications medium can be implemented in various ways. For example the communications medium can include a PCI bus a PCI Express bus an accelerated graphics port AGP bus a serial Advanced Technology Attachment ATA interconnect a parallel ATA interconnect a Fiber Channel interconnect a USB bus a Small Computing system Interface SCSI interface or another type of communications medium.

The memory stores various types of data and or software instructions. For instance in the example of the memory stores a Basic Input Output System BIOS and an operating system . The BIOS includes a set of computer executable instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to boot up. The operating system includes a set of computer executable instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide an operating system that coordinates the activities and sharing of resources of the computing device . Furthermore the memory stores application software including the program . The application software includes computer executable instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide one or more applications. The memory also stores program data . The program data is data used by programs that execute on the computing device .

Referring to the braiding machine described herein can be used to make a variety of different surgical braid that have different patterns and structures. The braids illustrated herein are braided using a 1 over 1 configurations although alternative embodiment can use braid configurations other than a 1 over 1 braid. Additionally the braiding machine can be used to make braids having different structures such as a generally tubular structure in which strands follow a generally spiral path for a full 360 degrees a braid having a flat section braids having bifurcations and other braid structures. The braiding machine also can be controlled to make braids can be made with or without a core spine or reinforcing member running along the length of the braid. Various embodiments of the braiding machine disclosed herein can make surgical braids having these structures and surgical braids having combinations of these structures.

The braiding machine also can be used to make surgical braids formed with a continuous braid along the entire length of the braid without requiring weaving splicing or gluing. For example the surgical braid can have a continuous braid through transitions between different structures such as the transition from a tubular braid to a flat or tape braid or through a change in strands used to form a core. Some alternative embodiment might still use fastening techniques such as gluing weaving or splicing to form certain aspects of the surgical braids.

Additionally braids can be made using trace strands that different colors than the rest of the strands used in the braid to further enhance visibility of the surgical braid . For example the braid can include a plurality of white strands and one or more colored trace strands that visually stands out from the rest of the strands . When trace strands are used braids can be made having changing colors and changing patterns for the trace stands. Example colors that can be used for the strands include blue green violet brown purple black white or any other suitable color.

The braids can be used as surgical braids. Example materials that can be used for strands in the surgical braid include polypropylene polyethylene polyethylene terephthalate PET silk nylon thermoplastic fluoropolymers such as polyvinylidene fluoride polyvinylidene difluoride PVDF or any combination thereof. Advantages of such materials include added tensile strength which reduces stretching when pulled and an axial load is applied to the braid. In at least some possible embodiments the surgical braid is braided with 16 strands in a 1 over 1 configuration. Other embodiments are possible. For example the surgical braid can be braided with more or less than 16 strands and configurations other than a 1 over 1 configuration. Additionally the surgical braid can include strands formed with ultra high molecular weight polyethylene UHMWPE . In some possible embodiment less than about 90 of the strands in the surgical braid are UHMWPE. In other possible embodiments less than about 75 of the strands in the surgical braid are UHMWPE. The strands can have a range of linear mass densities. For example in at least some embodiments the strands have a linear mass density greater than 110 deniers. Other embodiments can have strands with a linear mass density about 110 deniers or lower. Yet other embodiments have an average of about 100 deniers. Alternative embodiments also can include multifilament fibers monofilament fibers yarns strands formed with braided or twisted fibers individual fibers or a combination thereof. In at least some possible embodiments the trace strand is formed using a stronger material than the material used for the other strands of the surgical braid. Additionally although surgical braids are disclosed the braiding machine and methods disclosed herein can be used to make other types of braids such as ropes wires and cables and can use strands made from any type of suitable material including metals plant based fibers and chemical based fibers.

In different embodiments the trace strands in the embodiments illustrated in can each have the same color each have a different color or can have different combinations of two or more colors such that one group of trace fibers have one color and other group s of trace fibers have a different color s . Additionally the braid can be formed with different patters than the stripped and crossing patterns as illustrated. Yet other embodiment might have more than two sections such that the patters alternate along the length of the fiber or such that each section has a different pattern.

When making braids having a changing patter as illustrated in the bobbin carrier assemblies travel along clockwise and counterclockwise paths and of the active track during which the trace strands are braided into a first pattern. To transition the traces to a second pattern the bobbin carrier assemblies are moved along a combination of the active and passive tracks and A D as illustrated in . For purposes of illustration the steps and bobbin carrier positions in are shown using the arrangement of active and passive tracks active and passive horn gears and gates illustrated in although the steps or operations described herein can be implemented with alternative arrangements of the active and passive tracks active and passive horn gears and gates.

As illustrated in the horn gears A H and A H operate to carry the bobbin carriers A B A B A B A B A B A B A B A and B which roughly correspond to bobbin carriers A P. As described below the horn gears also operate to selectively transfer at least one of the bobbin carriers between adjacent horn gears as the horn gears rotate. In at least some embodiments shifts of the bobbin carriers between adjacent active horn gears occur at transition positions GA GA. Shifts of the bobbin carriers between active horn gears and adjacent passive horn gears occur at transition points GP GP to forms continuous paths such as paths and as illustrated in . The bobbins can be selectively shifted between the active and passive tracks and through gates GPA GPA which correspond to gates A H in . The transition mechanisms GPA GPA are configured to selectively guide the bobbin carriers between the active and passive tracks and A D. In at least some embodiments at least one of the transition mechanisms GPA GPA are implemented with the gates .

When making the braid having two trace strands as illustrated in the bobbin carrier assemblies A and B are loaded with trace strands and the remaining bobbin carriers are loaded with white stands. When making the braid having four trace strands as illustrated in the bobbin carrier assemblies A A A and A are loaded with trace strands and the remaining bobbin carriers are loaded with white stands. When making the braid having six trace strands as illustrated in the bobbin carrier assemblies A B A B A and B are loaded with trace strands and the remaining bobbin carriers are loaded with white stands. When making the braid having eight trace strands as illustrated in the bobbin carrier assemblies A A A A A A A and A are loaded with trace strands and the remaining bobbin carriers are loaded with white stands.

In illustrates a starting position Step of the bobbin carriers all of the bobbin carriers A B A B A B A B A B A B A B A and B are located on the active track . To move the bobbin carrier assemblies to the next position Step in the transition mechanisms GPA GPA GPA and GPA which are collectively referred to as Gate Set A are opened to transfer select bobbin carriers from the active track to the passive track . Then the braiding machine operates to rotate all of the horn gears A H and A H about 90 degrees to transfer the bobbin carriers B B B and B from the active track horn gears B H F and D to the passive track horn gears B H F and D respectively. The bobbin carriers B B B and B remain on the active track . Further the bobbin carriers A A A A A A A and A remains on the active track and are transferred counter clockwise between adjacent active track horn gears A H.

To move the bobbin carrier assemblies from the positions illustrated in to the positions illustrated in Step the transition mechanisms GPA GPA GPA and GPA which are collectively referred to as Gate Set B are opened to transfer select associated bobbin carriers from the active track to the passive track . Then the braiding machine operates to rotate the horn gears A H and A H about 90 degrees to transfer the bobbin carriers A A A and A from the active track horn gears A C E and G to the passive track horn gears A C E and G respectively at the transition positions GA GA GA and GA respectively. The bobbin carriers B B B and B remain on the passive track . Further the bobbin carriers A A A A A A A and A remain on the active track . However the active track bobbin carriers B B B and B are transferred counter clockwise between adjacent active track horn gears A H. In particular the bobbin gear B is shifted from the horn gear C to the horn gear D the bobbin gear B is shifted from the horn gear A to the horn gear B the bobbin gear B is shifted from the horn gear G to the horn gear H and the horn gear B is shifted from the horn gear E to the horn gear F.

To move the bobbin carrier assemblies from the positions illustrated in to the positions illustrated in Step all of the transition mechanisms are closed after the bobbin carriers are moved into their positions illustrated in . The braiding machine then operates to rotate all of the horn gears about 90 degrees. Because all of the transition mechanisms are closed no bobbin carriers are transferred between adjacent horn gears. The eight bobbin carriers A B A B A B A and B stay on the passive track and the other eight bobbin carriers A B A B A B A and B stay on the active track . As the horn gears rotate during step some of the bobbin carriers move across adjacent horn gear assemblies on the active track through the transition positions GA GA GA and GA. Further some of the bobbin carriers move across the passive track transition positions GP GP GP and GP.

To move the bobbin carrier assemblies from the positions illustrated in to the positions illustrated in Step the horn gears rotate an additional 90 degrees about their rotational axes respectively. The bobbin carriers B B B and B are transferred between adjacent horn gears on the active track and the bobbin carriers B B B and B are transferred between adjacent horn gears on the passive track . In particular the bobbin carrier B is shifted from the horn gear D to the horn gear E the bobbin carrier B is shifted from the horn gear B to the horn gear B the bobbin carrier B is shifted from the horn gear H to the horn gear A and the bobbin carrier B is shifted from the horn gear F to the horn gear G. The bobbin carrier B is shifted from the horn gear B to the horn gear A the bobbin carrier B is shifted from the horn gear H to the horn gear G the bobbin carrier B is shifted from the horn gear F to the horn gear E and the bobbin carrier B is shifted from the horn gear D to the horn gear C.

To move the bobbin carrier assemblies from the positions illustrated in to the positions illustrated in Step the active track horn gears A H are rotated 90 degrees while the passive track horn gears A H do not rotate and remain still. Accordingly the bobbin carrier assemblies A B A B A B A and B remain in the same position along the passive tracks.

To move the bobbin carrier assemblies from the positions illustrated in to the positions illustrated in Step the braiding machine operates to rotate all of the horn gears A H and A H about 90 degree until the step as shown in .

To move the bobbin carrier assemblies from the positions illustrated in to the positions illustrated in Step the transition mechanisms GPA GPA GPA and GPA Gate Set B are then opened so that bobbin carriers B B B and B on the passive track can be transferred to the active track . The horn gears A H and A H are then rotated about 90 degrees. The bobbin carriers B B B and B are transferred from the passive track to the active track . The bobbin carriers B B B and B return to the active track for the first time since the step but enter the slots of the active track horn gears in which the bobbin carriers A A A and A had been placed before they were transferred from the active track to the passive tracks in the step . In particular the bobbin carrier B moves from the horn gear A to the horn gear A the bobbin carrier B moves from the horn gear G to the horn gear G the bobbin carrier B moves from the horn gear E to the horn gear E and the bobbin carrier B moves from the horn gear C to the horn gear C.

To move the bobbin carrier assemblies from the positions illustrated in to the positions illustrated in Step all of the horn gears are rotated about 20 degrees about their rotational axes to clear all transition mechanism locations Step A . After the horn gears are rotated 20 degrees the transition mechanisms GPA GPA GPA and GPA Gate Set B are closed and then all of the horn gears are rotated about 90 degrees in the reverse direction Step B .

To move the bobbin carrier assemblies from the positions illustrated in to the positions illustrated in Step the transition mechanisms GPA GPA GPA and GPA Gate Set A are opened and the active track horn gears A H are rotated about 60 degrees in the reverse direction while the passive track horn gears A H do not rotate and remain stationary Step A . Then the passive track horn gears A H rotate about 120 degrees in the original direction Step B . The active and passive tracks are then interlocked electronically and are rotated together about 150 degrees in the original direction Step C . Once this process is complete the braiding machine operates to close the transition mechanisms GPA GPA GPA and GPA Gate Set A and continue the braiding process until the next transition is required.

The movement and positioning of the horn gear assemblies and the bobbin carrier assemblies as they transition the trace strands from one pattern to another as illustrated in is documented in Table 1 Operational Sequence of Horn Gear Assemblies.

The start position on the active track the first column indicates an angular location of the horn gear assemblies of the active track relative to the first location of the horn gear assemblies . Similarly the start position on the passive track the second column indicates an angular location of the horn gear assemblies of the passive track relative to the first location of the horn gear assemblies . The amount of the rotation on the active track the third column indicates an amount of the rotation of the active track motor . Similarly the amount of the rotation on the passive track the fourth column indicates an amount of the rotation of the passive track motor . The stop position on the active track the fifth column indicates the end position of the horn gear assemblies of the active track after the horn gear assemblies rotates by the amount of the rotation on the active track from the start position on the active track. Similarly the stop position on the passive track the sixth column indicates the end position of the horn gear assemblies of the passive track after the horn gear assemblies rotates by the amount of the rotation on the passive track from the start position on the passive track. The total rotation on the active track the seventh column indicates the cumulative amount of rotation of the horn gear assemblies of the active track . Similarly the total rotation on the passive track the eighth column indicates the cumulative amount of rotation of the horn gear assemblies of the passive track . The position of the gate set A the ninth column indicates the position either open of closed of the gates GPA GPA GPA and GPA. The position of the gate set B the tenth column indicates the position either open of closed of the gates GPA GPA GPA and GPA.

In at least some embodiments the encoders and attached to the motors and e.g. servo motors are used to enable the motor on the active track to be the master motor and the motor on the passive track to be the slave motor by electrically gearing the two motors and . In other embodiments can use different types of sensor devices to monitor the relative positions of the horn gear assemblies and or the relative positions of the bobbin carrier assemblies on the active track and or the passive track . Examples of alternative sensor devices include proximity sensors and cameras.

In these embodiments each of the braids and has a consistent pattern along the length thereof. In other embodiment the braids and can have two or more different patterns that alternate along the length thereof. Similar to the example braids in the braids and have no core running therealong.

The strands are braided using a 1 over 1 configuration such that the strands in the non flat sections and follow a generally helical or otherwise spiral path for a full 360 . When the strands transition to the tape section the strands in the braid follow a helical or otherwise spiral path over an arc that is less than 360 . As they are being braided the strands in the tape section reverse direction relative to the width of the braid as they reach each end of the arc.

In the illustrated embodiment the surgical braid does not have any bifurcated sections or gaps in either the non flat sections and or the tape section . Additionally there is no core running through the non flat sections and or spine running along or otherwise reinforcing the tape section . In some cases gaps in the braid can reduce the surface area over which the surgical braid exerts force against tissue and thus reduce the distribution of force. Additionally there is a risk that tissue opposing a gap can enter the gap and be pinched further increasing the risk to trauma. Similarly a core or spine running along the surgical braid can create a line where force exerted against the tissue is increased. Eliminating bifurcations gaps cores spines reinforcing members and the like enables force exerted against tissue by the surgical braid to be distributed over a larger area and more evenly and also prevents pinching of the tissue thereby reducing trauma.

Referring now to the circumference of the non flat sections and are initially tubular and have a generally round circumference when initially braided. When in this state the non flat sections and define an inner channel . As explained in more detail herein the surgical braid can be compressed during manufacturing by the pinch rollers A and B which reshapes the non flat sections and from a generally round circumference to an oblong circumference. The compression increases the width and decreases the height of the non flat section. A cross section for an exemplary embodiment of the non flat sections and is illustrated in . The out of round circumference has a width w greater than its height h and can have a variety of different shapes such as oblong oval elliptical and the like. Additionally compressing the non flat sections and urges opposing strands and in the braid together and substantially closes the inner channel . In this embodiment the non flat sections and are not tubular and do not define an inner channel. Other embodiments are possible. For example in at least some alternative embodiments the non flat sections and are not compressed by the pinch rollers A and B and have an open inner channel and are generally tubular.

The increased width and oblong shape of the non flat sections and have several functions. For example this increased width provides a surface area a that is pressed against tissue. The surface area a of the non flat sections and is larger than the surface area a of a surgical braid having a circular circumference when pressed against the tissue. The surface area a of the non flat sections and of the surgical braid provides a distribution of force against tissue that is greater than the distribution of force provided by a circular braid and this greater distribution of force reduces trauma to tissue. In another example the oblong shape increases the ability of the non flat sections and to maintain a knot when they are tied together during a medical procedure and decreases the risk that the knot will become inadvertently untied.

Referring to the tape section is substantially flat although the structure of the braid may result in some slight curvature along the cross section of the tape section . The tape section is substantially wider than the non flat sections and . This flat wide configuration provides greater distribution of force when the tape section is bound against tissue which reduces trauma to the tissue. As noted herein having no bifurcation or gaps in the braiding of the tape section further reduces the risk of trauma to tissue.

The arrangement of active tracks passive tracks and gates to braid the non flat sections and and the flat section of the surgical braid is substantially the same as illustrated in . However when braiding the bifurcations arms A and B a second set of gates along the active path are closed to form two closed or endless paths along the active track. The number of bobbin carrier assemblies traveling along each endless path will correspond to the number of strands in each of the bifurcation arms A and B. In alternative embodiments the passive tracks can be used similar to the arrangements illustrated in to form the two endless paths for the two groups of bobbin carrier assemblies.

Referring now to the surgical braid comprises two tubular sections and respectively which form an outer wall of the surgical braid . A first section and a second section are formed of a plurality of strands braided into a continuous braid. The outer wall of each section and is additionally braided around a core section see . In the embodiment illustrated there is no substantial interruption in the braiding at the transition between sections and . Nor is there any splicing gluing or other fastening between sections and however in at least some alternative embodiments other configurations are possible.

The strands can be braided using a 1 over 1 configuration such that the strands in the out of round sections and follow a generally helical or otherwise spiral path for a full 360 degrees. As used herein a strand can have a variety of possible structures such as individual strands or filaments strands formed with braided or twisted strands or filaments and the like. Example materials that can be used for strands in the surgical braid include those used in the strands for the braid .

In this embodiment the surgical braid does not have any bifurcated sections or gaps in either the out of round sections and . However in other embodiments such bifurcations are possible as illustrated in . Additionally a core shown in runs through the out of round sections and and a transition area . The core is described in more detail herein.

As shown in the surgical braid includes a trace strand . A trace strand is a different color than the majority of strands used in the surgical braid . A surgical braid can include one or more trace strands to further enhance visibility of the surgical braid . For example the surgical braid can include a plurality of white strands and a color trace strand that visually stands out from the rest of the strands. In other embodiments the surgical braid includes a plurality of white strands two color strands. In yet other embodiments the surgical braid includes any combination of a plurality of strands each having a contrasting color to enhance visibility. Example colors used for the trace strand include blue green violet brown purple black white or any other suitable color.

As shown in the surgical braid is formed of 16 strands interbraided in a pattern as described herein. The trace strand is braided into the outer wall of first section to increase visibility of the surgical braid . The trace strand then transitions at a transition point to form the section of the core running along the second section . The outer wall of the second section is braided around the core the trace strand of the second section thereby forming a continuous surgical braid . In embodiments described in further detail herein surgical braids can be formed using one or more trace strands . In this example embodiment the trace strands do not require splicing gluing or fastening between sections and however these methods are possible in alternative embodiments. Additionally in at least one of the possible embodiments the surgical braid has a length of about 36 inches so that the first and second sections and each have a length of about 18 inches. Other embodiments can have different lengths.

The surgical braids and having a strand that transitions between a core and being braided into the out wall of the braid can be made using an arrangement of active tracks passive tracks and gates including those illustrated in . As illustrated in for example the gate can be moved to the open position and a passive horn gear assembly corresponding to passive track can be rotated to move one bobbin carrier assembly from the active sub track C and another bobbin carrier from the passive track back to the active sub track C. The strand carried by a bobbin carrier assembly positioned along the passive track will form a core of the surgical braid being produced. Switching bobbin carrier assemblies between the active sub track C and the passive track transitions strands between being positioned as the core and being braided into the outer wall of the surgical braid. In another alternative as illustrated in the gates can be opened to move one of the bobbin carrier assemblies from the active sub track C to the passive sub tracks and and also move another bobbin carrier from the passive sub tracks and back to the active sub track C. Switching bobbin carriers between the active track and the passive track formed by passive sub tracks and transitions strands between being positioned as the core and being braided into the outer wall of the surgical braid.

As describe in more detail herein the braiding track plate is similar to the braiding track plate and defines a track e.g. configured to guide the plurality of bobbin carrier assemblies A P along defined paths. The horn gear assemblies A F and A and B support and drive the bobbin carrier assemblies A P along the defined paths. In at least some embodiments the braiding assembly is configured and operates to produce a braid . The one or more gate is configured to selectively guide the bobbin carrier assemblies to automatically shift the operation of the braiding assembly between a round section and a flat section of the braid. The structure and operation of the gate is the same as or similar to the gates A H described herein except that the dimensions such as length and curvature of inter track and intra track paths formed in the gate may be different from those in the gate to match the track underneath the second horn gear assemblies .

The structure and operation of the horn gear assemblies A F in the first set of horn gears are the same as or similar to the horn gear assemblies A H as described herein. The structure and operation of the horn gear assemblies A and B in the second set of horn gears are also the same as or similar to the horn gear assemblies A H except that the dimensions and number of notches in the horn gear assemblies A and B can be modified as illustrated and described in more detail herein. In the depicted embodiment the horn gear assemblies A F are arranged adjacent one another. The horn gear assemblies A and B are adjacent to one another and position between horn gear assemblies A and F. In this arrangement the horn gear assemblies are positioned along the track and about the machine axis C. In the depicted embodiment the set of first horn gear assemblies includes six first horn gear assemblies A F. The horn gear assemblies A F A and B are operated so that that the bobbin carrier assemblies A P move across adjacent horn gear assemblies A H and along the track .

The horn gear assemblies A H A and B are operated in a manner that two adjacent first horn gear assemblies are rotated in opposite direction. For example the horn gear assemblies A C E and B are rotated counter clockwise while the other horn gear assemblies B D F and A are rotated clockwise or vice versa. In other embodiments the first horn gear assemblies A F A and B can be configured to rotate in different manners. As described in more detail herein the first horn gear assemblies can be mechanically linked and operated together.

The gate can be arranged along the track between the adjacent second horn gear assemblies A and B. The gate can be operated to enable at least one of the bobbin carrier assemblies A P to move between the adjacent second horn gear assemblies A and B. Alternatively the gate can be operated to prevent at least one of the bobbin carrier assemblies A P from crossing between the adjacent second horn gear assemblies A and B and to cause the bobbin carrier assembly to move back to the adjacent horn gear assembly to begin moving in the opposite direction e.g. transition from clockwise to counterclockwise movement or vice versa around machine axis C .

The retraction mechanisms operates to retract at least one of the bobbin carrier assemblies from the horn gear assemblies A and B. As described in more detail herein the retraction mechanisms can cooperate with the gate to shift between braiding a flat section of a braid and braiding a tubular section of the braid. The retraction mechanisms also can be used to shift between braiding a surgical braid with a core and braiding the braid without a core alternate or change the strands used as the core along a braid or change a pattern or colors of the strands used to form the surgical braid.

In the depicted embodiment the braiding assembly includes six first horn gear assemblies A F and two second horn gear assemblies A and B and includes one gate along a portion of the track between the two second horn gear assemblies A and B. Other embodiments can include different number of horn gear assemblies and along the track a different number of gates or a different number of retraction mechanisms than illustrated in the exemplary shown in . There can be a different total number of horn gear assemblies and more or fewer than two horn gear assemblies or more or fewer than six horn gear assemblies or a different ratio between the number of horn gears and the number of horn gears . For example alternative embodiments might include two additional horn gears either between or in place of horn gears C and D with a gate between the two additional horn gears and additional retraction mechanisms. Such alternative embodiments would enable braiding of a bifurcated flat section my moving of some of the bobbin carriers and strands along a path defined from the horn gear A to the additional horn gear located in place of horn gear C and other bobbin carriers and strands along a path defined from the horn gear B to the additional horn gear located in place of horn gear D Yet other embodiments might include yet other additional horn gears position between or in place of the other horn gears A B E or F. Other embodiments might include only horn gears with associated gates and retraction mechanisms .

In the depicted embodiment the braiding assembly includes 16 bobbin carrier assemblies A P to produce a 16 end braid . Other embodiments can include any suitable number of bobbin carrier assemblies to make braids having any desired numbers of strands. For example alternative braiding assemblies could have 8 24 or 32 bobbin carrier assemblies or any other suitable number of bobbin carrier assemblies . Further in the example of the braiding assembly includes 17 bobbin carrier assemblies to produce a 17 end braid having 16 strands as a sheath and one strand as a core.

Referring to an example second horn gear assembly is illustrated. The second horn gear assembly is configured as a disk or having a plurality of slots. The plurality of slots is configured to engage the bobbin carrier assemblies respectively. The plurality of slots are formed at the circumference of the disk and arranged such that at least some of the slots are selectively used to provide either an even number of evenly spaced slots around the disk or or an odd number of evenly spaced slots around the disk or . As described herein the even number of evenly spaced slots can be used to create a round section of a braid and the odd number of evenly spaced slots can be used to braid a flat section of the braid .

In other embodiments the second horn gear assembly is configured as a disk having a different size and a different number of slots. It is still noted that the slots of the second horn gear assembly are arranged such that at least some of the slots are selectively used to provide either an even number of evenly spaced slots or an odd number of evenly spaced slots.

The gate is positioned between the second sub tracks A and B. The gate has an open position and a closed position and define grooves or slots for guiding the bobbin carrier assemblies A P either between the second sub tracks A and B or along one of the second sub tracks A and B and pass the other.

Referring to the gate is in the open position at which the bobbin carrier assemblies A P are guided by the inter bridge path of the gate to move between the second sub tracks A and B as they are propelled by the second horn gear assemblies A B. Thus as illustrated in the track provides a clockwise path and a counter clockwise path each of which oscillates and is out of phase from the other. When the gate is in the open position the braiding assembly operates to carry half of the bobbin carrier assemblies along the clockwise path and the other half of the bobbin carrier assemblies along the counter clockwise path in order to braid a non flat e.g. round section of a braid as illustrated in .

As illustrated in in at least some embodiments the set of the first horn gear assemblies A F is operated by a first motor and the set of the second horn gear assemblies A and B is operated by a second motor . The gate can be actuated by a gate actuating system e.g. a solenoid or motor system . The retraction mechanisms can be actuated by retraction operation systems e.g. a solenoid or motor system respectively. In some embodiments the retraction mechanisms can be operated by a single retraction operation system .

In at least some embodiments the non flat sections and are configured to be out of round or cylindrical. In other embodiments the non flat sections and are round sections. A flat or tape section is positioned between the two non flat sections and . The first and second non flat sections and and the tape section are formed with a plurality of strands braided into a continuous braid. In at least some embodiments there is no interruption in the braiding at the transition between the non flat sections and and the tape section . Nor is there any splicing gluing or other fastening between the non flat sections and and the tape section .

The strands are braided using a 1 over 1 configuration such that the strands in the non flat sections and follow a generally helical or otherwise spiral path for a full 360 . When the strands transition to the tape section the strands in the braid follow a helical or otherwise spiral path over an arc that is less than 360 . As they are being braided the strands in the tape section reverse direction relative to the width of the braid as they reach each end of the arc. In the illustrated embodiment the surgical braid as illustrated in does not have any bifurcated sections or gaps in either the non flat sections and or the tape section . Additionally there is no core running through the non flat sections and or spine running along or otherwise reinforcing the tape section .

Although the braid is illustrated in to have two non flat sections and and one flat section therebetween other embodiments are also possible that the braid has a plurality of flat sections and a plurality of non flat section and which are alternately arranged each other.

The horn gear assemblies A F and A B operate in a manner similar to the horn gear assemblies A H as illustrated in except for the passive horn gears A H. The eight horn gear assemblies A F and A B operate to carry bobbin carrier assemblies A B A B A B A B A B A B A B A and B which roughly correspond to the bobbin carrier assemblies A P. As described below the horn gear assemblies also operate to selectively transfer at least one of the bobbin carrier assemblies between adjacent horn gear assemblies as the horn gear assemblies rotate. In at least some embodiments shifts of the bobbin carrier assemblies between adjacent active horn gear assemblies occur at transition positions therebetween. The bobbin carrier assemblies can be selectively shifted between the second horn gear assemblies A and B through a transition mechanism which can be configured as the gate . In the depicted example of in which the braiding assembly operates to braid a flat section of a braid a first set of bobbin carrier assemblies A A A A A A A and A moves along one of the clockwise path and the counterclockwise path and a second set of bobbin carrier assemblies B B B B B B B and B moves along the other of the clockwise path and the counterclockwise path . In the depicted example of in which the braiding assembly operates to braid a non flat section of a braid the first set of bobbin carrier assemblies A A A A A A A and A moves along one of the clockwise path and the counterclockwise path and the second set of bobbin carrier assemblies B B B B B B B and B moves along the other of the clockwise path and the counterclockwise path .

Referring to the braiding assembly is in a transition start position at which the braiding assembly is ready to transition from braiding a flat section to a non flat section or . Until the braiding assembly reaches the transition start position as depicted in the braiding assembly operates to braid a flat section of the braid with a 1 over 1 configuration. In particular the second horn gear assemblies A and B are operated such that an odd number of evenly spaced slots are used to braid a flat section of the braid . In at least some embodiments five slots A B D F and H which are evenly spaced apart in about 72 degree increments are selected for a flat section braiding although alternative embodiment can have an angular spacing other than 72 degrees. Further the gate is closed between the second horn gear assemblies A and B for braiding a flat section of the braid . The horn gear assemblies operate to carry the eight horn gear assemblies along the clockwise path and the counterclockwise path of the track . The horn gear assemblies A F and A B are configured to have a speed profile that matches the four slots A D of the first horn gear assemblies A F and the five slots A B D F and H of the second horn gear assemblies A and B between two adjacent ones of the first and second horn gear assemblies A F and A B.

To transition from a flat section braiding to a non flat section braiding the braiding assembly is paused in the transition start position as illustrated in . Once the braiding assembly is in the transition start position the gate between the second horn gear assemblies A and B is opened. Further the bobbin carrier assemblies A B and B are retracted from the associated second horn gear assemblies A and B as illustrated in . In some embodiments the retraction mechanisms are used to retract the bobbin carrier assemblies A B and B as illustrated herein.

Referring to the bobbin carrier assemblies A and B are retracted from the associated slots D and H of the second horn gear assembly A and the bobbin carrier assembly B is retracted from the associated slot B of the second horn gear assembly B such that the braiding assembly is in an intermediate transition position. In the intermediate transition position the bobbin carrier assemblies A B and B which have been retracted are clear of the horn gear assemblies when the horn gear assemblies rotate. In at least some embodiments the retraction mechanism is used to mechanically retract the bobbin carrier assemblies A B and B from the associated slots of the second horn gear assemblies A and B. An example of the retraction mechanism is illustrated and described with reference to .

Once the braiding assembly is in the intermediate transition position i.e. the bobbin carrier assemblies A B and B are retracted from the associated second horn gear assemblies A and B the horn gear assemblies A F and A B rotate such that the slot C of the second horn gear assembly B is aligned with the bobbin carrier assembly B. In the depicted example the horn gear assemblies A F and A B rotate about 18 degrees respectively such that the second horn gear assembly B rotates about 18 degrees in a counterclockwise direction although alternative embodiment can have an angular movement other than 18 degrees. Then the bobbin carrier assembly B moves toward the horn gear assembly B so as to engage the slot C of the second horn gear assembly B. The bobbin carrier assembly B switches from the slot B to the slot C of the second horn gear assembly B. The retraction mechanism can be used to insert the bobbin carrier assembly B into the slot C of the second horn gear assembly B.

Once the horn gear assemblies A F and A B rotate such that the bobbin carrier assembly B is switched from the slot B to the slot C of the second horn gear assembly B the horn gear assemblies A F and A B rotate in the opposite direction such that the slot G of the second horn gear assembly A is aligned with the bobbin carrier assembly B. In the depicted example the horn gear assemblies A F and A B rotate 36 about degrees respectively in the opposite direction such that the second horn gear assembly A rotates about 36 degrees in a counterclockwise direction although alternative embodiment can have an angular movement other than 36 degrees. Then the bobbin carrier assembly B moves toward the horn gear assembly A so as to engage the slot G of the second horn gear assembly A. Therefore the bobbin carrier assembly B switches from the slot H to the slot G of the second horn gear assembly A. Similarly the retraction mechanism can be used to insert the bobbin carrier assembly B into the slot G of the second horn gear assembly A.

Once the horn gear assemblies A F and A B rotate such that the bobbin carrier assembly B is switched from the slot H to the slot G of the second horn gear assembly A the horn gear assemblies A F and A B rotate such that the slot E of the second horn gear assembly A is aligned with the bobbin carrier assembly A. In the depicted example the horn gear assemblies A F and A B rotate about 54 degrees respectively in the direction opposite to the previous rotation such that the second horn gear assembly A rotates about 18 degrees in a clockwise direction although alternative embodiment can have an angular movement other than 54 or 18 degrees respectively. Then the bobbin carrier assembly A moves toward the horn gear assembly A so as to engage the slot E of the second horn gear assembly A. Therefore the bobbin carrier assembly A switches from the slot D to the slot E of the second horn gear assembly A. Similarly the retraction mechanism can be used to insert the bobbin carrier assembly A into the slot E of the second horn gear assembly A. The final positions of the bobbin carrier assemblies relative to the horn gear assemblies are illustrated in .

Referring to the horn gear assemblies A F and A B of the braiding assembly is in a transition end position. Beginning from the transition end position the second horn gear assemblies A and B are operated such that an even number of evenly spaced slots are used to braid a non flat section of the braid . In at least some embodiments four slots A C E and G which are evenly spaced apart in about 90 degree increments are selected for a non flat section braiding although alternative embodiment can have an angular spacing other than 90 degrees. Further the gate remains open between the second horn gear assemblies A and B for braiding a non flat section of the braid . Therefore the horn gear assemblies operate to carry the eight horn gear assemblies along the clockwise path and the counterclockwise path of the track . The horn gear assemblies A F and A B also changes to have a speed profile that matches the four slots A D of the first horn gear assemblies A F and the four slots A C E and G of the second horn gear assemblies A and B between two adjacent ones of the first and second horn gear assemblies A F and A B.

In other embodiments the steps performed from the transition start position to the transition end position can change as necessary to the extent that the bobbin carrier assemblies engaged in one or more of an odd number of evenly spaced slots of the second horn gear assemblies A and B have shifted to one or more of an even number of evenly spaced slots of the same second horn gear assemblies A and B.

Although it is described that all of the horn gear assemblies A F and A B are operated to rotate together in the transition stage it is possible to permit only some of the horn gear assemblies A F and A B to rotate as necessary. In the embodiments where the first horn gear assemblies A F are operated together by a single motor and the second horn gear assemblies A B are actuated together by another single motor the second horn gear assemblies A B can be operated to rotate together but independently from the first horn gear assemblies A F.

The steps described above with reference to are reversed to transition from braiding a non flat section to braiding a flat section of the braid .

The retraction mechanism is configured to selectively retract the bobbin carrier assembly from the associated horn gear assembly so that the retracted bobbin carrier assembly is clear of the spinning horn gear assembly . In at least some embodiments the retraction mechanism is configured to slidably move in a radial direction with respect to the horn gear assembly . In at least some embodiments the track plate includes a guiding mechanism e.g. a groove or channel configured to guide movement of the retraction mechanism .

In at least some embodiments the braiding assembly can include one retraction mechanism configured to selectively retract and insert one or more bobbin carrier assemblies. In other embodiments the braiding assembly can include a plurality of retraction mechanisms for selectively retract and insert one or more bobbin carrier assemblies. For example there may be four retraction mechanisms arranged adjacent the second horn gear assemblies A and B.

As illustrated in the retraction mechanism can be operated by a retraction operation system . In some embodiments the retraction operation system can include one or more solenoids of any type such as electromechanical solenoids rotary solenoids rotary voice coils pneumatic solenoid valves and hydraulic solenoid valves. In other embodiments the retraction operation system can include a pneumatic operating system. For example the pneumatic operating system can include a pneumatic indexer rack and pinion arrangement or a belt. In yet other embodiments the retraction operation system can include a motor such as a servo or stepper motor.

Operation of the retraction mechanism having two paths enables a bobbin carrier to be moved off the track so that another bobbin carrier can move pass it thereby changing the sequence or order of the bobbin carriers and strands as they move around the track. Changing the sequence or order of the bobbin carriers or strands while braiding a surgical braid will change the pattern of the strands forming the braids as described herein. Operations that change the sequence or order of the bobbin carriers and strands to change the pattern of the strands can be performed using the embodiments illustrated in as well as other embodiments including the other embodiments illustrated and describe herein and other braiders that may not be illustrated or described herein.

Similarly to the braid in the braid in this embodiment has two non flat sections and and a flat section therebetween. The configuration of the non flat sections and and the flat section of the braid is the same as those of the braid as illustrated in . Although the braid is illustrated in to have two non flat sections and and one flat section therebetween other embodiments are also possible that the braid has a plurality of flat sections and a plurality of non flat section and which are alternately arranged each other.

As described herein the braid as illustrated in is formed of 16 strands interbraided in a 1 over 1 configuration. The trace strand as illustrated in is another strand added into the 16 strand braid. As such the braid as illustrated in is formed of 17 strands.

In some embodiments the trace strand is braided into an outer wall of the first non flat section to increase visibility of the braid which can be used for medical purposes e.g. as a surgical braid . The trace strand then runs through the flat section of the braid to further add visibility of the braid . The trace strand forms a core running along the second non flat section . For example the outer wall of the second non flat section is braided around the core thereby forming a continuous braid. In this configuration the core is formed with the trace strand at the second non flat section . In other embodiments braids can be formed using one or more trace strands . In these example embodiments the trace strand s do not require splicing gluing or fastening between flat and non flat sections however these methods are possible in alternative embodiments.

Referring to the braid is formed of 17 strands including a first color strand and a second color strand . The first and second color strands and have different colors from the remaining strands 15 strands . For example the first color strand can have blue and the second color strand can have black while the other strands are white. The colors of the strands can change as necessary. At the first non flat section the first color strand is braided into an outer wall of the first non flat section and the second color strand forms a core . At the second non flat section the first color strand forms a core and the second color strand is braided into an outer wall of the second non flat section . The first and second color strands and run through the flat section so as to be arranged in parallel. The first and second color strands and can be spaced at various manners through the flat section . In the illustrated example the first and second color strands and run in parallel with one strand therebetween. In other embodiments the first and second color strands and are spaced with more than one strands therebetween or arranged to about each other without a strand therebetween. To form the parallel pattern a bobbin carrier assembly supplying the first color strand and a bobbin carrier assembly supplying the second color strand are relatively positioned to travel along the track in the same direction either clockwise or counterclockwise .

Referring to the braid is formed of 17 strands including the first color strand and the second color strand . At the first non flat section the first color strand is braided into an outer wall of the first non flat section and the second color strand forms a core . At the second non flat section the first color strand forms a core and the second color strand is braided into an outer wall of the second non flat section . The first and second color strands and run through the flat section so as to form a cross pattern. The first and second color strands and can run to cross each other in various manners through the flat section . In the illustrated example the first and second color strands and run to cross each other symmetrically. In other embodiments other cross patterns are possible. To form the cross pattern a bobbin carrier assembly supplying the first color strand and a bobbin carrier assembly supplying the second color strand are relatively positioned to travel along the track in the opposite directions. For example when the bobbin carrier assembly holding the first color strand moves clockwise along the track the bobbin carrier assembly holding the second color strand is configured to travel counterclockwise.

Referring to the braid is formed of 17 strands including a single color strand . The color strand has a color different from that of the other 16 strands. In other words the second color strand has the same color as that of the remaining 15 strands. As illustrated the color strand is braided into an outer wall of the first non flat section runs through the non flat section and forms a core at the second non flat section . As such the braid shown in is a continuous braid having a single trace strand that transitions from the outer wall of the non flat section to the core of the next non flat section with the flat section therebetween.

In at least some embodiments the braiding assembly for braiding a braid as illustrated in is operated similarly to the braiding assembly for braiding a braid as illustrated in . As many of the concepts and features are similar to the braiding assembly of the description for the braiding assembly as illustrated in is hereby incorporated by reference for this embodiment. Where like or similar features or elements are shown the same reference numbers will be used where possible. The following description for this embodiment will be limited primarily to the differences from the braiding assembly of .

In this embodiment the braiding assembly includes additional bobbin carrier assembly in addition to 16 bobbin carrier assemblies A B A B A B A B A B A B A B A and B.

Referring to when the braiding assembly operates to braid a flat section e.g. the flat section of the braid the bobbin carrier assembly is carried by the horn gear assemblies A F and A and B together with the other 16 bobbin carrier assemblies. The bobbin carrier assembly is arranged such that in the transition start position as depicted in the bobbin carrier assembly is inserted in the slot F of the second horn gear assemblies A and B. The bobbin carrier assembly is guided by a core retraction mechanism . In at least some embodiments the core retraction mechanism for the bobbin carrier assembly can be configured similarly to the retraction mechanism as described herein.

Referring to when the braiding assembly operates to braid a non flat section e.g. the non flat section of the braid with a core the bobbin carrier assembly is retracted from the horn gear assemblies A F and A and B as illustrated in . The retracted bobbin carrier assembly operates as the core of the non flat section of the braid . In at least some embodiments the core retraction mechanism can be used to selectively retract the bobbin carrier assembly .

In accordance with the principles of the present disclosure many alternative embodiments and arrangements of the braiding assembly are possible. These alternative embodiments enable greater flexibility for defining different paths for the bobbin carrier assemblies and enable the braiding machine to make a wider variety of different braid structures and configurations. Referring to for example the braiding assembly can include a track plate having an active track and a passive track . In at least some embodiments the active track is the same as the active track as illustrated in . The passive track is similar to ones described in . For example the passive track is formed by grooves or slots defined in the track plate . The passive track includes a first set of passive sub tracks A and B which are adjacent to the active sub tracks A and B a second set of passive sub tracks C and D which are adjacent to the active sub tracks C and D a third set of passive sub tracks E and F which are adjacent to the active sub tracks E and F and a fourth set of passive sub tracks G and H which are adjacent to the active sub tracks A and B.

The passive sub tracks A H correspond to passive horn gear assemblies A H respectively and guide the bobbin carrier assemblies as they are propelled by the passive horn gear assemblies A H as explained herein. Additionally the bobbin carrier assemblies can selectively move between the active track and one or more of the passive tracks as described herein. A plurality of gates are arranged between the active and passive tracks and for selective transition of the bobbin carrier assemblies therebetween as described herein. With the passive sub tracks A H braids with a variety of color pattern changes can be produced as described herein.

Other embodiments are possible in the braiding assembly with the passive track . As illustrated in for example configuration of the passive track can be modified similarly to ones described in .

As explain herein the braiding machine in accordance with the present disclosure has various advantages over other braiding machines. The braiding machine can use a different number of bobbin carrier assemblies with a predetermined number of horn gear assemblies. In the illustrated examples the braiding machine can use eight horn gear assemblies to carry 16 or 17 bobbin carrier assemblies. In other embodiments the eight horn gear assemblies of the braiding machine can guide different numbers of bobbin carrier assemblies. In contrast other braiding machines are designed to use a number of bobbin carrier assemblies with the same number of horn gear assemblies. For example the other braiding machines carries either bobbin carriers with eight horn gear assemblies or 16 bobbin carriers with 16 horn gear assemblies. Such other braiding machines can be designed to perform a process for swapping two bobbin carrier assemblies for changing shapes e.g. non flat and flat sections and or patterns of a braid. For the swapping process the braiding machines at least two different speed profiles for the horn gear assemblies thereof. For example at least one of the horn gear assemblies can have a constant speed profile and an acceleration deceleration profile to swap two bobbin carriers. Such different speed profiles require an actuation system with a higher capacity such as a motor with a higher capacity. Further the changing speed of horn gear assemblies in the acceleration deceleration profile causes associated bobbin carriers to be subjected to a centrifugal force that pulls out the bobbin carriers from the horn gear assemblies thereby increasing a risk that the bobbin carriers are disengaged from the horn gear assemblies. In contrast the braiding machine of the present disclosure does not need a process for swapping bobbin carriers during braiding and is configured to maintain a constant speed of the horn gears throughout the braining process.

The braiding machine of the present disclosure is capable of braiding a braid with at least 16 strands in a 1 over 1 configuration using 8 horn gear assemblies. The braiding machine can thus use strands having a larger diameter to make a braid having a smaller diameter compared to a braid that is produced by other braiding machines as described above and is not truly in a 1 over 1 configuration. Thus a braid produced by the braiding machine of the present disclosure can have a thicker wall than other braids. For example a 16 strand braid with size 2 that is braided by the other braiding machines can use 8 strands with 55 dtex and 8 strands with 110 dtex to produce a braid diameter of about 0.024 inches. In contrast a 16 strand braid with size 2 that is braided by the braiding machine of the present disclosure can use 16 strands with 100 dtex to produce a braid diameter of about 0.024 inches. As such the braiding machine can perform tight braiding to improve the strength of the braid.

The braiding machine of the present disclosure can also produce a braid with a core and change the configuration of the core in the braid as illustrated herein. In contrast the other braiding machines are not configured to selectively change the configuration of a core in a braid. Further the braiding machine requires one track distance for full rotation while the other braiding machines require two or more time a track distance for full rotation.

The various examples described above are provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed to limit the scope of the present disclosure or the following claims. Those skilled in the art will readily recognize various modifications and changes that may be made without following the example embodiment illustrated and described herein and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present disclosure and claims.

