---

title: System, method, and apparatus for powering intelligent lighting networks
abstract: The present invention relates to a system, method, and apparatus for powering intelligent lighting networks. The power for the intelligent lighting network is supplied by Power-over-Ethernet (PoE) switches and/or Mid-Spans, which are conditioned by a powered device to distribute power tuned specifically for each, at least one light emitting diode (LED) fixture. The Power-over-Ethernet switch and/or Mid-Span with associated router and wireless access point can be used to communicate with, and power a sensor network that collects data relevant to the intelligent lighting network. Optionally, the Power-over-Ethernet switch and/or Mid-Span can be used to communicate with, and power a network of sensors that collects data relevant to the space the intelligent lighting network is operating in, or can be used to communicate with and power a network of AC wall plugs that can be turned on and off, and various switches, relays, and PLCs, RFID systems, USB hubs, etc.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09544976&OS=09544976&RS=09544976
owner: IDS-IP HOLDINGS LLC
number: 09544976
owner_city: San Juan
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160125
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to Provisional Application U.S. Ser. Nos. 62 107 092 and 62 107 104 both filed on Jan. 23 2015 all of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

In addition this application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to Provisional Application U.S. Ser. Nos. 62 165 510 62 165 485 62 165 478 62 165 468 62 165 462 62 165 449 62 165 442 and 62 165 435 all filed on May 22 2015 all of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

In addition this application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to Provisional Application U.S. Ser. Nos. 62 173 419 62 173 421 62 173 424 62 173 430 62 173 438 62 173 442 62 173 444 62 173 447 62 173 482 62 173 464 and 62 173 466 all filed on Jun. 10 2015 all of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

In addition this application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to Provisional Application U.S. Ser. Nos. 62 205 067 62 205 079 62 205 082 62 205 085 62 205 091 62 205 094 62 205 108 and 62 205 110 all filed Aug. 15 2015 all of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The entire contents of these patent applications are hereby expressly incorporated herein by reference including without limitation the specification claims and abstract as well as any figures tables or drawings thereof.

The present invention relates to a system method and apparatus for powering intelligent lighting networks. Power for the intelligent lighting network is supplied by Power over Ethernet PoE switches and or Mid Spans which are conditioned by a powered device to distribute power tuned specifically for each at least one light emitting diode LED fixture.

Traditional LED lighting systems use drivers at each light fixture to convert AC power to suitable DC power. Drivers are typically mounted with the light fixtures and located in the space above the ceiling. In this type system for LED lighting the LED lighting fixtures are part of the existing AC electrical circuits. On Off Dim controls can be provided by wall switches and dimmers timers sensors or lighting control software programs that are connected to an AC electrical branch circuit or controllers located within the LED driver that use powerline low voltage or wireless communications to be connected to wall switches and dimmers timers sensors or lighting control software programs.

Power over Ethernet LED lighting systems use PoE Switch power that is centrally located. The PoE Switch converts AC power to DC power. Intermediate electronics condition the power so it is suitable for use by LED lighting fixtures. The Intermediate electronics also include controllers that use structured cabling and or wireless for communications.

What is needed is a Power over Ethernet LED Lighting system method and apparatus for powering intelligent lighting networks that is cost effective and energy efficient. The power for such an intelligent lighting network would be supplied by Power over Ethernet switches and or Mid Spans which are conditioned by a powered device to distribute power tuned specifically for each at least one LED fixture.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a system method and apparatus for continuously refreshing DC power between on and off states or on and reduced voltage states to LED lights.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use direct current technology to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use power inverter technology to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use Time Domain Reflectometry TDR technology to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use pulse width modulation duty cycle technology to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use switch technology to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use voltage regulator technology to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use rectifier technology to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use computer backplane technology to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use common power bus technology to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use Ethernet technology to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use low voltage wiring technology to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use twisted pair cable technology to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use Category 5 cable technology to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use Category 6 cable technology to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use Category 7 cable technology to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use modular connector technology to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use blade server technology to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use router technology to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use Power over Ethernet technology to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use powerline communication technology to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use phantom power technology to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use network switch technology to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use relay technology to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use ultra wideband technology to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use time division for power to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use temporal resolution to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use computer port technology to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use modular electronics technology to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use ambient light sensor technology to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use motion sensor technology to provide functionality.

It is a feature and object of the present invention to use ambient light sensor chronology to provide functionality.

Such an energy efficient system would use a dimmer matrix that is designed to provide the correct amount of electrical power for any specific dimmer setting for an LED fixture or a daisy chain of LED fixtures. Such an energy efficient system would use two or more physical channels to provide power to an LED fixture at a lower pulse width modulation PWM duty cycle setting or to power a daisy chain of LED fixtures. Such a cost efficient system would take advantage of using lower PWM duty cycles on two physical channels for each LED fixture or daisy chain of LED fixtures to create time bins for N groups of LEDs or daisy chains of LED fixtures drawing power from the same Power over Ethernet port using a time division multiplexing scheme to reduce Power over Ethernet and or Mid Span port costs. In addition a Power over Ethernet switch and or Mid Span with associated router and wireless access point would be used to communicate with and power a sensor network that collects data relevant to the intelligent lighting network. Optionally the Power over Ethernet switch and or Mid Span with associated router and wireless access point would be used to communicate with and power a network of sensors that collects data relevant to the space the intelligent lighting network is operating in. Optionally the Power over Ethernet switch and or Mid Span with associated router and wireless access point would be used to communicate with and power a network of AC wall plugs that can be turned on and off and various switches relays and PLCs RFID systems USB hubs etc.

The present invention relates to a system method and apparatus for powering intelligent lighting networks and includes an integrated data collection and marketing system. The power for the intelligent lighting network is supplied by Power over Ethernet switches which is conditioned to properly power LED fixtures. In addition the Power over Ethernet switch associated router and wireless access point can be used to power a sensor network that collects data that is relevant to a client and their customers. Furthermore the data collected from the sensor network can be used to drive a marketing system that also is connected to the Power over Ethernet switch associated router and wireless access point.

LEDs are following Moore s Law and growing in efficacy at a good rate. The following is a chart for a 2 2 LED fixture that is engineered with 100 lumens per watt LPW diodes. Chart 1 records pulse width modulation PWM settings vs. measured foot candles per Watt fc Watt . The results illustrate the non linear response of LEDs light output vs input energy and the energy saved at various dimmer settings vs a traditional linear power setting for a 0 10V dimmer. The Non Linear Dimmer Matrix Setting for 100 light is selected to be 900 fc which allows a 5.56 overhead as the LED fixture begins to degrade over time.

At a PWM duty cycle of 77 the output of the LED fixture is 900 fc which saves 14.04 energy vs. running the LED fixture at a PWM duty cycle of 100 .

At a PWM duty cycle of 52 the output of the LED fixture is 700 fc or a non linear dimmer matrix setting of 80 which saves 40.11 energy vs. running the LED fixture at a PWM duty cycle of 100 .

At a PWM duty cycle of 46 the output of the LED fixture is 640 fc or a non linear dimmer matrix setting of 70 which saves 45.20 energy vs. running the LED fixture at a PWM duty cycle of 100 .

At a PWM duty cycle of 32 the output of the LED fixture is 440 fc or a non linear dimmer matrix setting of 50 which saves 54.80 energy vs. running the LED fixture at a PWM duty cycle of 100 .

Therefore as an example using two stacked physical channels both operating at a PWM duty cycle of 0.333 the present invention can make approximately 100 of the maximum light 900 fc while saving approximately six 6 to eight 8 watts vs. running the same LED fixture at a PWM duty cycle of 100 which is a primary benefit of the present invention.

As a result a non linear dimmer matrix can be constructed to manage light output luminosity vs. power input so that each LED fixture or daisy chained group of LED fixtures is using the minimum amount of electricity to produce the required light at any dimmer setting.

A second benefit of operating using two stacked physical channels is a time division multiplexing scheme can be constructed that allows multiple LED fixtures or multiple daisy chains of LED fixtures to be powered by a single PoE port. As an example using Chart 1 we can operate three 3 LED fixtures using a time division multiplexing scheme in which each LED fixture is operating using two stacked physical channels operating with a 33 duty cycle and then staggering the start time of each LED fixture so that only one 1 LED fixture is drawing power at any point in time. In this example three 3 LED fixtures or daisy chains of LED fixtures can operate on a single Power over Ethernet or Mid Span port using a series of staggered start times which greatly reduces Power over Ethernet Switch and or Mid Span equipment costs.

The primary features of the present invention are 1 stacking at least two physical channels to drive each LED fixture or daisy chain of LED fixtures 2 managing dimmer settings using linear luminosity requirements vs. uncorrelated linear power settings and 3 managing the start time for each LED fixture or daisy chain of LED fixtures and the present invention also uses 4 sensors to detect ambient light conditions related to a particular LED fixture or zone of LED fixtures identified by room or space definitions that are cross referenced to OSHA requirements National and Local building code requirements standards organizations and or customer requirements to either minimum or desired ambient light conditions. As an example the requirements for a building corridor are much different than for a hospital room office space or lobby. The present invention s dimmer controls can be set to operate according to static dimmer settings in the lighting program that are adjusted according to signals received from at least one strategically place ambient light sensor or by automatically adjusted dimmer settings according to signals received from at least one strategically placed ambient light sensor which are cross referenced to tables for spaces and rooms defined in OSHA regulations and or National and Local building codes standards organizations or proprietary requirements. The fifth 5th primary feature of the present invention is intelligent lighting systems can be self configuring using AutoID technologies such as but not limited to RFID tags barcoded tags etc. to simplify the installation commissioning and warranty processes for simple or very complicated lighting environments.

These features of the present invention will be described in more detail in the detailed description of the various embodiments of the present invention.

The present invention relates to a system method and apparatus for powering intelligent lighting networks and includes an integrated data collection and marketing system. Power for the intelligent lighting network is supplied by Power over Ethernet switches which is conditioned to properly power LED fixtures.

In addition the Power over Ethernet switch associated router and wireless access point can be used to power a sensor network that collects data that is relevant to a client and their customers.

Furthermore the data collected from the sensor network can be used to drive a marketing system that also is connected to the Power over Ethernet switch associated router and wireless access point.

Even furthermore the present invention includes a power distribution unit referred to throughout the description of the present invention as Power Station which includes an integrated Lighting System Controller and optional integrated Industrial System Controller a structured cabling network sensors wall switches and LED fixtures.

Internet is a global system of interconnected computer networks that use the Internet protocol suite TCP IP to link several billion devices worldwide. It is a network of networks that consists of millions of private public academic business and government networks of local to global scope linked by a broad array of electronic wireless and optical networking technologies. The Internet carries an extensive range of information resources and services such as the inter linked hypertext documents and applications of the World Wide Web WWW the infrastructure to support email telephony and peer to peer networks for file sharing. Internet also illustrates the deployment of Hybrid Cloud . Hybrid Clouds are further described in element following. The Hybrid Cloud that operates on Internet includes applications software and databases for an enterprise resource planning ERP system and an ISO OSHA graphical user interface GUI that is a series of interconnected processes that overlay the present invention s ERP system. In addition Hybrid Cloud includes applications software and databases for Lighting as a Service LaaS system Marketing as a Service MaaS system VoIP as a Service VoIPaaS system and Location as a Service XYZaaS system. Hybrid Cloud is built using Cisco Integration Platform CIP and Cisco Intercloud products. Both of these products are further described in Hybrid Cloud .

Hybrid Cloud is a composite cloud service that crosses the boundaries of private public and community clouds that extends the capacity and capability via aggregation and integration of the composite cloud service provided by the present invention. As an example the present invention may store sensitive client data in house on a private cloud application and interconnect that application to a business intelligence application provided on a public cloud as a software service. In the present invention Hybrid Cloud and Hybrid Cloud communicate over Internet . The data is collected and stored as a result of using the present invention s sensors that are part of LaaS Lighting as a Service and MaaS Marketing as a Service systems. These sensors include WiFi and Bluetooth MAC addresses temperature readings camera gathered data lighting system sensors that detect occupancy vacancy and ambient lighting conditions etc. The hybrid cloud structure represented as Hybrid Cloud and Hybrid Cloud may use public cloud computing resources to meet temporary capacity needs that cannot be met by our private cloud. This capability enables the present invention s hybrid cloud to employ cloud bursting for scaling across at least one cloud or a multiplicity of clouds. The primary application running in the Hybrid Cloud is the present invention s Data as a Service DaaS engine which includes data storage and data analytic services. Hybrid Cloud also includes a Coupon Exchange for uniquely identified offers and discounts and analytic engines such as but to limited to GAUSS and GUIs for the MaaS system to request data to offer uniquely identified discounts coupons etc. to the MaaS system s customer s client s that have opted into the system. These uniquely identified discounts coupons etc. are offered to a MaaS client s customer s on the fly based on analytics of past and present customer behaviors.

Hybrid Cloud and Hybrid Cloud may be constructed using Cisco s Intercloud product. In addition Hybrid Cloud and Hybrid Cloud may be constructed using Cisco s Integration Platform aka CIP. CIP is used to connect the present inventions diverse on premise cloud and DaaS applications across the business enterprise and makes it easy to exchange data and services between them. This is done in an automated fashion reusing application integrations and APIs to accelerate the delivery of new customer experiences at a much lower cost.

1 Cisco Integration Bus an open standards based integration platform with over 120 prebuilt application connectors graphical design tools and mixed model deployment tools in order to integrate and deploy applications or services seamlessly and quickly.

2 API Management a comprehensive suite of life cycle management capabilities to design build and manage APIs for our systems and services.

The combination of these technologies provides the present invention a full set of enterprise class tools and capabilities to create deploy manage and capitalize on application integrations and APIs throughout our business. These include 

Router is a networking device that forwards data packets between computer networks. Routers perform the traffic directing functions on the Internet. A data packet is typically forwarded from one router to another through the networks that constitute the internet until it reaches its destination node.

A router is connected to two or more data lines from different networks as opposed to a network switch which connects data lines from one single network . When a data packet comes in on one of the lines the router reads the address information in the packet to determine its ultimate destination. Then using information in its routing table or routing policy it directs the packet to the next network on its journey. This creates an overlay inter network. Router is also a security appliance.

Network Connection S represents the connection from the premise where the LaaS network rack is located and Internet . This connection can include a variety of but is not limited to wired and or wireless and or fiber optic connections as well as an ISP modem and head end equipment POTS networks cable networks satellite networks microwave relays LANS WANS cellular networks including a hot spot etc.

PoE Switch describes any of several standardized or ad hoc systems which pass electrical power along with data on Ethernet cabling. This allows a single cable to provide both data connection and electrical power to devices such as wireless access points IP cameras and LED lights. Unlike standards such as Universal Serial Bus which also power devices over the data cables PoE allows long cable lengths. Power may be carried on the same conductors as the data or it may be carried on dedicated conductors in the same cable.

There are several common techniques for transmitting power over Ethernet cabling. Two of them have been standardized by IEEE 802.3. Since only two of the four pairs are needed for 10BASE T or 100BASE TX power may be transmitted on the unused conductors of the cable. In the IEEE standards this is referred to as Alternative B. Power may also be transmitted on the data conductors by applying a common mode voltage to each pair. Because twisted pair Ethernet uses differential signaling this does not interfere with data transmission. The common mode voltage is easily extracted using the center tap of the standard Ethernet pulse transformer. This is similar to the phantom power technique commonly used for powering audio microphones. In the IEEE standards this is referred to as Alternative A.

In addition to standardizing existing practice for spare pair and common mode data pair power transmission the IEEE PoE standards provide for signaling between the power sourcing equipment PSE and powered device PD . This signaling allows the presence of a conformant device to be detected by the power source and allows the device and source to negotiate the amount of power required or available. Up to a theoretical 51 watts is available for a device depending on the version of the standard in use and the vendor of the hardware.

A switch is a device in a computer network that electrically and logically connects together other devices. Multiple data cables are plugged into a switch to enable communication between different networked devices. Switches manage the flow of data across a network by transmitting a received message only to the one or more devices for which the message was intended. Each networked device connected to a switch can be identified using a MAC address allowing the switch to regulate the flow of traffic. This maximizes security and efficiency of the network.

Due to these features a switch may be seen as more intelligent than a network hub which provides no security or identification of connected devices. As a result messages have to be transmitted out of every port of the hub greatly degrading the overall efficiency of the network.

An Ethernet switch operates at the data link layer layer 2 of the OSI model to create a separate collision domain for each switch port. Each computer connected to a switch port can transfer data to any of the other ones at a time and the transmissions may not interfere with the limitation that in half duplex mode each line can only either receive from or transmit to its connected computer at a certain time. In full duplex mode each line can simultaneously transmit and receive regardless of the partner.

PoE Switch transmits both data and power to the present invention s Power Station . The present invention s Power Station is a power management and distribution switch architected to enable the next phase of the PoE powered LED lighting evolution. The Power Station is also a combiner that aggregates power from several PoE ports into several common power buses operating on Power Station . The Power Station provides a solution to intelligently manage and distribute power provided by PoE sources including switches and Mid Spans to high efficiency LED lights while maximizing operational cost savings. The Power Station is future enabled with vertical and horizontal power regulation and distribution across multiple channels operating on multiple ports to optimize port usage for the LED industries efficiency gains and to allow for LED lights with different power requirements to operate on the same Power Station . The present invention s digital intelligent Lighting System Controller is fully integrated in the Power Station . Optionally the Lighting System Controller is designed to include an industrial bus controller for managing and operating relays solenoids PLCs and for communicating with building automation systems etc. In addition the Power Station s back end systems are designed to take advantage of the Cisco Integration Platform and the Cisco Intercloud product offering. Overall the present invention s Power Station offers unparalleled cost savings for PoE powered LED lighting networks. The Power Station uses the PoE Switch to power and communicate with a sensor network other Power Station s and back end systems. The present invention s PoE switch powered solution is robust agile and takes advantage of the inherent features and benefits of PoE switches such as but not limited to security and unified communications.

The present invention s Power Station is a modular platform that may be reconfigured internally to provide a variety of port configurations such as but not limited to 

The Power Station s are designed for scalability. The modular architecture of these platforms enables the deployment of small medium and large PoE powered LED lighting networks.

The key features and benefits of the present invention s Power Station are illustrated in Chart 2 which includes but is not limited to 

Power Station may use input from the ambient light sensors in conjunction with the building space room type definition table and corresponding minimum light levels matrix that is stored in its memory to select the correct light setting. The non linear dimmer matrix that is stored in the Power Station s DMX Lighting System Controller memory may serve as a guide to constantly make the correct adjustments to the LED fixtures. The net result is the most efficient and robust lighting system possible one that is powered by PoE switches and managed by the Power Station with integrated Lighting Controller .

The present invention Power Station provides a power management and distribution solution that is future proofed. The efficacy of LEDs follows Moore s law so PoE PoE and UPoE power will nearly always be out of sync when optimizing available power to create logical lighting circuits. The Power Station is a modular component in a PoE Switch Power Station combination by conditioning standard PoE power to meet complex installation environments and to meet the ever changing landscape of increasing LED efficiencies.

Power Station is comprised of the following Power Bus and Back plane Controller Lighting Controller Shared Memory optional Industrial Controller Line Cards A B C Power Conditioning Modules A B C Micro Controllers A B C Input Power and Data Ports A B C D E F H I J and Output Power Ports A B C D E F H I. Input power is provided by AC Mains Power . The Power Station converts AC to DC for use by the PoE Switch and in turn the Power Station and LED A B Mfg. A LED A B Mfg. B LED A B Mfg. C .

Power Bus and Back plane may be configured as a Distributed Power Architecture or an Intermediate Bus Architecture.

Controller may be a field programmable gate array integrated circuit designed to be configured by a customer or a designer after manufacturing. The FPGA configuration is generally specified using a hardware description language HDL similar to that used for an application specific integrated circuit ASIC . Alternatively Controller may be configured as at least one micro controller. A microcontroller often abbreviated C uC or MCU is a small computer on a single integrated circuit containing a processor core memory and programmable input output peripherals. Program memory in the form of Ferroelectric RAM NOR flash or OTP ROM is also often included on chip as well as a typically small amount of RAM. Microcontrollers are designed for embedded applications in contrast to the microprocessors used in personal computers or other general purpose applications. Microcontrollers make it economical to digitally control even more devices and processes. Mixed signal microcontrollers are common integrating analog components needed to control non digital electronic systems. Some microcontrollers may use four bit words and operate at clock rate frequencies as low as 4 kHz for low power consumption single digit milliwatts or microwatts . They will generally have the ability to retain functionality while waiting for an event such as a button press or other interrupt power consumption while sleeping CPU clock and most peripherals off may be just nanowatts making many of them well suited for long lasting battery applications. Other microcontrollers may serve performance critical roles where they may need to act more like a digital signal processor DSP with higher clock speeds and power consumption.

Typically FPGAs contain an array of programmable logic blocks and a hierarchy of reconfigurable interconnects that allow the blocks to be wired together like many logic gates that can be inter wired in different configurations. Logic blocks can be configured to perform complex combinational functions or merely simple logic gates like AND and OR. In most FPGAs logic blocks also include memory elements which may be simple flip flops or more complete blocks of memory.

Controller includes but is not limited to blocks designed for use as the Lighting Controller s Shared Memory and an optional Industrial Controller .

In the preferred embodiment Lighting Controller is based on the DMX512A protocol. However Lighting Controller can be designed as a control system device or set of devices to manage command direct or regulate the behavior of other the LaaS system. The Lighting Controller can be an open loop control system and or a closed loop control systems. In open loop control systems output is generated based on inputs. In closed loop control systems current output is taken into consideration and corrections are made based on feedback. A closed loop system is also called a feedback control system. A hybrid control system may use both an open and closed loop control system.

DMX is a standard for digital communication networks that are commonly used to control stage lighting and effects. It was originally intended as a standardized method for controlling light dimmers which prior to DMX512 had employed various incompatible proprietary protocols. It soon became the primary method for linking controllers such as a lighting console to dimmers and special effects devices such as fog machines and intelligent lights. DMX has also expanded to uses in non theatrical interior and architectural lighting ranging from strings of Christmas lights to electronic billboards. DMX can now be used to control almost anything reflecting its popularity in theaters and other venues.

DMX512 employs EIA 485 differential signaling at its physical layer in conjunction with a variable size packet based communication protocol. It is unidirectional.

DMX512 does not include automatic error checking and correction and so is not an appropriate control for hazardous applications.

In 1998 the Entertainment Services and Technology Association ESTA began a revision process to develop the standard as an ANSI standard. The resulting revised standard known officially as Entertainment Technology USITT DMX512 A Asynchronous Serial Digital Data Transmission Standard for Controlling Lighting Equipment and Accessories was approved by the American National Standards Institute ANSI in November 2004. It was revised again in 2008 and is the current standard known as E1.11 2008 USITT DMX512 A or just DMX512 A .

In January 2011 ESTA merged with PLASA a similar organization in the UK. The new organization is called Plasa. All ESTA standards are now maintained by Plasa.

A standard deployment of a DMX512 network employs a multi drop bus topology with nodes strung together in what is commonly called a daisy chain. A network consists of a single DMX512 controller which is the master of the network and one or more slave devices. For example a lighting console is frequently employed as the controller for a network of slave devices such as dimmers fog machines and intelligent lights.

Each slave device has a DMX512 IN connector and usually an OUT or THRU connector as well. The controller which has only an OUT connector is connected via a DMX512 cable to the IN connector of the first slave. A second cable then links the OUT or THRU connector of the first slave to the IN connector of the next slave in the chain and so on. For example the block diagram below shows a simple network consisting of a controller and three slaves.

The specification requires a terminator to be connected to the final OUT or THRU connector of the last slave on the daisy chain which would otherwise be unconnected. A terminator is a stand alone male connector with an integral 120 resistor connected across the primary data signal pair. This resistor matches the cable s characteristic impedance. If a secondary data pair is used a termination resistor is connected across it as well. Although simple systems i.e. systems having few devices and short cables may sometimes function normally without a terminator the standard requires its use. Some DMX slave devices have built in terminators that can be manually activated with a mechanical switch or by software or by automatically sensing the absence of a connected cable.

A DMX512 network is called a DMX universe . Each OUT connector on a DMX512 controller can control a single universe. Smaller controllers may have a single OUT connector enabling them to control only one universe whereas large control desks operator consoles may have the capacity to control multiple universes with an OUT connector provided for each universe.

DMX512 data are transmitted over a differential pair using EIA 485 voltage levels. DMX512 electrical specifications are identical to those of the EIA 485 A standard except where stated otherwise in E1.11.

DMX512 is a bus network no more than 1 200 meters 3 900 ft. long with not more than 32 unit loads on a single bus. If more than 32 unit loads need to communicate the network can be expanded across parallel buses using DMX splitters. Network wiring consists of a shielded twisted pair with a characteristic impedance of 120 Ohms with a termination resistor at the end of the cable furthest from the controller to absorb signal reflections. DMX512 has two twisted pair data paths although specification currently only defines the use of one of the twisted pairs. The second pair is undefined but required by the electrical specification.

Alternatively the present invention may employ a DMX over Ethernet protocol to extend the number of DMX universes and channels that can be controlled from a centralized Lighting Controller .

Due to the layered structure of the TCP IP protocol suite that makes up the transmission standard used on Ethernet networks multiple unrelated pieces of data are sent down the same network. Tracking backup information such as lighting program parameters firmware updates RDM Remote Device Management information and much more can be run down the one network without any of the costly time consuming cable re arrangement that is normally required when a lighting system s programmed configuration is changed

A significant benefit of Ethernet is its star topology wiring layout. While DMX uses a daisy chaining method the star topology of Ethernet leads to a much more robust network. The lack of daisy chaining support may seem like a disadvantage at first but the extra resilience of a network utilizing a star topology means a fault in a device or cable may generally have a much smaller impact over the whole network and make it easier to trace. This coupled with the lower cost of cable may make a network utilizing Ethernet a safer more robust system than anything built using the DMX protocol. The lack of inputs and outputs in Ethernet means plug any device be it a console or fixture into any port without needing to worry about the direction of travel. All devices may automatically communicate with each other as required as a result of the TCP IP protocol suite.

One of the most under estimated advantages of a DMX over Ethernet implementation is Ethernet s ability to leverage the wide range of technologies developed by the IT industry. Inexpensive yet highly reliable switches and cables can be used and there s a host of sub protocols supported by most switches. An example of this would be Spanning Tree Protocol IEEE 802.1D which allows redundant links between switches such that should one go down for whatever reason the other can take over seamlessly. Another useful technology is Virtual LANs or VLANs IEEE 802.1Q which allows multiple venues all on the one network to segment the network into discrete virtual networks guaranteeing no inadvertent control of one room from another. Streaming ACN makes use of the multicasting protocol to intelligently route universes of DMX only where it s required with no manual reconfiguration. All of these features come in commonly available switches that are extremely reliable and often available much cheaper than the largely featureless DMX splitters in use today.

There is not yet a universal agreement between manufacturers as to which DMX over Ethernet protocol to use. Some protocols are fairly open and used by many manufacturers while others remain proprietary and are typically only used by the manufacturer that developed them. There are typically five main protocols ArtNet Pathport ShowNet ETC Net2 and Streaming ACN.

ArtNet is a simple protocol designed purely for encapsulating DMX data within Ethernet nice and simply. ArtNet has introduced the lighting world to DMX over Ethernet and is the most widely used DMX over Ethernet protocol in use today. However there are some constraints that may limit its long term usefulness. The numbering of universes from 0 rather than 1 is not very user friendly and can lead to confusion and incompatibility between manufacturers. Similarly the lack of support for multicasting can make its transmission inefficient in large events utilizing many universes. For these and other reasons ArtNet s future is in doubt against the more robustly defined Streaming ACN protocol.

Pathport ShowNet and ETC Net2 are protocols designed by Pathway Strand and ETC respectively. Their penetration is not as wide spread as ArtNet but they are used by a few consoles and devices. The Pathport protocol is supported by both MA s GrandMA and Jands Vista for example while Strand s ShowNet is the only protocol available in their 300 and 500 series desk. ETC Net2 is the protocol used for ETC s previous generation of consoles.

Streaming ACN is probably the best DMX over Ethernet protocol available. Not only does it avoid some of the pitfalls of its predecessors but it also adds some new features that extend the functionality allowed in DMX. This feature allows visualization software to use a different stream of DMX than that is being used by the dimmers and fixtures embedded priority information and an end of sequence function.

One of the most important things to consider in designing a DMX over Ethernet protocol is the range of DMX over Ethernet protocols supported. While most support ArtNet currently the most popular protocol there is still a significant amount of equipment out there that does not support ArtNet. Streaming ACN may become the preferred protocol driving lighting equipment. Pathport nodes are unique in the large range of protocols they support. ArtNet Pathport ShowNet ETC Net2 and Streaming ACN ETC Net3 are all supported by Pathway s Pathport nodes.

The best approach for DMX and Ethernet protocol is with infrastructure that is entirely Ethernet based. This allows DMX to Ethernet nodes to be placed where required that convert the DMX over Ethernet signal to legacy DMX for only the last couple of meters to the lights. It s generally important to feed more than one run of Ethernet to a specific location so there is not only one for a DMX to Ethernet node but also for native Ethernet devices such as configuration devices and future devices to plug directly in. Some nodes allow their ports to be configured as either output or input regardless of the gender of the physical port. This allows a node typically used for output to become an input node with no more hardware except a simple gender changer adaptor.

Lighting Controller can receive data from Switches and Sensors to turn on turn off or dim LED A B and or LED A B and or LED A B.

Shared Memory is an electronic data storage device implemented on a semiconductor based integrated circuit. It is made in many different types and technologies.

Semiconductor memory has the property of random access which means that it takes the same amount of time to access any memory location so data can be efficiently accessed in any random order. In a semiconductor memory chip each bit of binary data is stored in a tiny circuit called a memory cell consisting of one to several transistors. The memory cells are laid out in rectangular arrays on the surface of the chip. The 1 bit memory cells are grouped in small units called words which are accessed together as a single memory address. Memory is manufactured in word length that is usually a power of two typically N 1 2 4 or 8 bits.

Data is accessed by means of a binary number called a memory address applied to the chip s address pins which specifies which word in the chip is to be accessed. If the memory address consists of M bits the number of addresses on the chip is 2M each containing an N bit word. Consequently the amount of data stored in each chip is N2M bits. The memory storage capacity for M number of address lines is given by 2M which is usually in power of two 2 4 8 16 32 64 128 256 and 512 and measured in kibibits mebibits gibibits or tebibits etc. Currently 2014 is the largest semiconductor memory chip and holds a few gibibits of data but higher capacity memory is constantly being developed. By combining several integrated circuits memory can be arranged into a larger word length and or address space than what is offered by each chip often but not necessarily a power of two.

The two basic operations performed by a memory chip are read in which the data contents of a memory word is read out nondestructively and write in which data is stored in a memory word replacing any data that was previously stored there. To increase data rate in some of the latest types of memory chips such as DDR SDRAM multiple words are accessed with each read or write operation.

In addition to standalone memory chips blocks of semiconductor memory are integral parts of many computer and data processing integrated circuits. For example the microprocessor chips that run computers contain cache memory to store instructions awaiting execution.

Shared Memory is used by both the Lighting Controller and the optional Industrial Controller . Shared Memory is used to store data necessary for the semi automatic or automatic control of the LaaS and MaaS system. This data can include but is not limited to patient identity medical worker identity office employee identity maintenance personnel identity student identity teacher identity security personnel identity building type space type room type LED fixture voltage LED fixture amperage LED lumens LED fixture type LED fixture height above floor LED fixture height above work surface ambient light condition measurements and triggers motion measurements occupancy measurements vacancy measurements humidity measurements temperature measurements air quality measurements soil condition measurements leaf wetness measurements time of day day of week holiday schedules building operational schedules peak demand requirements HVAC thermostat measurements refrigerator measurements baking oven measurements point of sale system measurements WiFi measurements Bluetooth measurements mobile device app measurements facial expression measurements location measurements license plate reader readings RFID tag readings temporary over ride measurements lighting system wall switch signal measurements non linear dimmer matrices etc.

Lighting Controller and optional Industrial Controller can also use data stored on Internet and or Hybrid Cloud and or Hybrid Cloud to semi automatically and automatically control LED A B LED A B and LED A B and Relays PLCS Solenoids . This data includes but is not limited to patient identity medical worker identity office employee identity maintenance personnel identity student identity teacher identity security personnel identity building type space type room type LED fixture voltage LED fixture amperage LED lumens LED fixture type LED fixture height above floor LED fixture height above work surface ambient light condition measurements and triggers motion measurements and triggers occupancy measurements and triggers vacancy measurements and triggers humidity measurements and triggers temperature measurements and triggers air quality measurements and triggers soil condition measurements and triggers leaf wetness measurements and triggers time of day triggers day of week triggers holiday schedules building operational schedules peak demand requirements and triggers HVAC thermostat measurements and triggers refrigerator measurements and triggers baking oven measurements and triggers point of sale system measurements and triggers WiFi measurements and triggers Bluetooth measurements and triggers mobile device app measurements and triggers facial expression measurements and triggers location measurements and triggers license plate reader readings and triggers RFID tag readings measurements and triggers temporary over ride measurements and triggers lighting system wall switch signal measurements and triggers non linear dimmer matrices etc.

Controller also includes an optional Industrial Controller . Optional Industrial Controller is designed to control Relays PLCs and Solenoids .

Line Card A B C is a printed circuit board that provides transmitting receiving ports for data and power transmission over the Intelligent Lighting Network of the present invention. The Line Cards A B C plug into a modular chassis not shown of the Power Station .

Line Card A B C also includes Power Conditioning Modules A B C respectively. The Power Conditioning Modules A B C convert the standard electrical output of PoE PoE or PoE or non standard PoE versions to the proper voltage and amperage required to power LED A B or LED A B or LED A B. One advantage of the present invention s Power Station is it is LED fixture agnostic and LED fixtures from different manufacturers can be powered on the same Intelligent Lighting Network by the same Power Station .

Line Card A B C also includes Micro Controller A B and C. Micro Controller A B C is configured to respond to DMX512 commands for stacking two channels on top of each other delivered on a single Output Power Port A B C D E F H I to power at least one LED A B or LED A B or LED A B. In addition Micro Controller A B C is configured to respond to DMX512 commands to connect a multiplicity of DMX channels to a multiplicity of Output Power Ports A B C D E F H I.

Line Card A B C may be configured in a variety of form factors including but not limited to a small box for managing and distributing power that is located near LED A B LED A B and LED A B or in the form of an electrical wall outlet that is located near a free standing or mobile lamp fixture that is designed to accept incandescent or CFL bulbs etc.

Using Line Card A B C configured as both a small box for managing and distributing power that is located near LED A B LED A B and LED A B and in the form of an electrical wall outlet that is located near a free standing or mobile lamp fixture that is designed to accept incandescent or CFL bulbs etc. a hybrid PoE powered system that allows for a wide variety of aesthetically pleasing free standing or mobile lamp fixtures to be used in conjunction with edge light LED Flat Panels reflective LED troffers LED recessed lights etc.

Line Card A B C not shown can include wireless capabilities such as but not limited to WiFi Zigbee Z Wave etc. to enable communications with wireless capabilities not shown in Controller . The wireless communications can be used to turn lights on off or dim. In addition the Line Card A B C configured as at least one electrical wall outlet that is located near a free standing or mobile lamp fixture that is includes screw based LED lights can be grouped logically together by Controller and controlled as group or according to triggers from Switches and Sensors .

LED A B LED A B and LED A B are fixtures that produce light via a light emitting diode LED . LED lamps have a lifespan and electrical efficiency that is several times better than incandescent lamps and significantly better than most fluorescent lamps with some chips able to emit more than 100 lumens per watt.

Like incandescent lamps and unlike most fluorescent lamps e.g. tubes and compact fluorescent lamps or CFLs LEDs come to full brightness without need for a warm up time. The life of fluorescent lighting is also reduced by frequent switching on and off.

Some LED lamps are made to be a direct compatible drop in replacement for incandescent or fluorescent lamps. The LED lamp packaging may show the lumen output power consumption in watts color temperature in kelvins or description e.g. warm white operating temperature range and sometimes the equivalent wattage of an incandescent lamp of similar luminous output.

Most LEDs do not emit light in all directions and their directional characteristics affect the design of lamps although omnidirectional lamps which radiate light over a 360 angle are becoming more common. The light output of single LEDs is less than that of incandescent and compact fluorescent lamps. In most applications multiple LEDs are used to form a lamp although high power versions see below are becoming available.

LED chips need controlled direct current DC electrical power. An appropriate circuit is required to convert alternating current from the supply to the regulated low voltage direct current used by the LEDs. LEDs are adversely affected by high temperature so LED lamps typically include heat dissipation elements such as heat sinks and cooling fins.

AutoID A B C D E F aka Automatic Identification and Data Capture AIDC refers to the methods of automatically identifying objects collecting data about them and entering that data directly into computer systems without human involvement. Technologies typically considered as part of AIDC include bar codes Radio Frequency Identification RFID biometrics magnetic stripes Optical Character Recognition OCR smart cards and voice recognition. AIDC is also commonly referred to as Automatic Identification Auto ID and Automatic Data Capture. 

AIDC is the process or means of obtaining external data particularly through analysis of images sounds or videos. To capture data a transducer is employed which converts the actual image or a sound into a digital file. The file is then stored and at a later time it can be analyzed by a computer or compared with other files in a database to verify identity or to provide authorization to enter a secured system. Capturing of data can be done in various ways and the best method depends on application.

AIDC also refers to the methods of recognizing objects getting information about them and entering that data or feeding it directly into computer systems without any human involvement. Automatic identification and data capture technologies include barcodes RFID barcodes OCR magnetic stripes smart cards and biometrics like iris and facial recognition system .

Radio frequency identification RFID is relatively a new AIDC technology which was first developed in 1980s. The technology acts as a base in automated data collection identification and analysis systems worldwide.

RFID and barcodes are the primary AutoID aka AIDC technologies that would be used to mark LED A B LED A B and LED A B.

In the present invention AutoID A B C D E F configured as RFID tags would be used during installation to capture the ID of the light and its physical location by RFID triangulation. These identities and locations would be compared to the RCP Reflected Ceiling Plan for the installation. In this manner the Intelligent Lighting Network System may become self aware and capable of becoming self configuring. The DMX channels for a light or string of lights can be assigned on the fly. In addition during installation Lighting Controller can access tables in Shared Memory that define national and local code lighting levels for various building types and spaces and room types. Using the lighting systems sensors in Switches and Sensors the Intelligent Lighting Network System can be configured and adjusted automatically.

Access Point is a WiFi access point that is used to communicate wireless with the Intelligent Lighting Network System and to monitor WiFi Radio MAC addresses. In addition Access Point includes a Bluetooth Radio that can monitor Bluetooth Radio MAC addresses. One example of such an Access Point is the Meraki MR series which tracks probing MAC addresses from associated and non associated clients. This data is exported in real time from the access points to Meraki s cloud for analytics. Information is then calculated and presented in the Meraki dashboard to display metrics such as user dwell time repeat visits and capture rate people passing by vs. coming inside a site . This information can be used by retailers hospitality and enterprise customers to understand foot traffic and visitor behavior across sites and can facilitate an optimization of opening hours marketing initiatives and staffing policies.

Digital Signage and Marketing System is comprised of digital signs not shown digital advertising and messaging players not shown client GUIs not shown customer GUIs not shown cameras not shown optional kiosks not shown social media marketing engine not shown and apps for receiving coupons discounts and offers generated by the Digital Signage and Marketing System .

Cables A B C D E F H I J K L M N O P Q are used in electrical and electronic systems for transmitting electric power or telecommunication signals from one place to another. Cables A B C D E F H I J K L M N O P Q are made up of one or more conductors. Electric communication cables transmit voice messages computer data and visual images via electrical signals to telephones wired radios computers teleprinters facsimile machines and televisions. There is no clear distinction between an electric wire and an electric cable. Usually the former refers to a single solid metallic conductor with or without insulation while the latter refers to a stranded conductor or to an assembly of insulated conductors.

Wireless Connection R illustrates a wireless connection from the AutoID A B C D E and F to a wireless access point which can be configured such as but not limited to an RFID interrogator.

It is important to note that Line Card A B C illustrated in may be configured in a variety of form factors including but not limited to a small box for managing and distributing power that is located near LED A B LED A B and LED A B or in the form of an electrical wall outlet that is located near a free standing or mobile lamp fixture that is designed to accept incandescent or CFL bulbs etc.

Using Line Card A B C configured as both a small box for managing and distributing power that is located near LED A B LED A B and LED A B and in the form of an electrical wall outlet that is located near a free standing or mobile lamp fixture that is designed to accept incandescent or CFL bulbs etc. a hybrid PoE powered system that allows for a wide variety of aesthetically pleasing free standing or mobile lamp fixtures to be used in conjunction with edge light LED Flat Panels reflective LED troffers LED recessed lights etc.

Line Card A B C not shown can include wireless capabilities such as but not limited to WiFi Zigbee Z Wave etc. to enable communications with wireless capabilities not shown in Controller . The wireless communications can be used to turn lights on off or dim. In addition the Line Card A B C configured as at least one electrical wall outlet that is located near a free standing or mobile lamp fixture that is includes screw based LED lights can be grouped logically together by Controller and controlled as group or according to triggers from Switches and Sensors .

The following description is a practical example of how the present invention for powering and communicating with an intelligent lighting system operates in a small footprint building such as a Quick Service Restaurant QSR setting.

An employee enters the building and turns a wall switch Switches and Sensors located near the door as required by building codes from the OFF position to the ON position.

A signal in the form of a data is sent via cable Q to PoE Switch which includes a code for ON and the electronic identity of the wall switch. A Cable Q is the preferred physical medium for transmitting the ON data signal but it should be noted that a wireless channel such as WiFi Bluetooth Zigbee etc. are also acceptable means for communication.

The data signal is routed to the circuit boards for Controller and Lighting Controller via cable D and Input Power and Data Port A.

The program operating the intelligent lighting system on Lighting Controller receives the data signal wall switch to turn ON the lights. The lighting system program accesses various data tables in Shared Memory to cross reference the electronic identity of the wall switch against which LEDs A B A B A B are grouped together logically as a lighting circuit. The lighting system program also accesses data tables in Shared Memory for actions to take for the appropriate dim level according to some or all of the following tables with associated triggers and instructions time of day day of week holiday schedule ambient light conditions as detected by ambient light sensors Switches and Sensors motion as detected by motion sensors Switches and Sensors occupancy and vacancy as calculated by motion data the maximum dim setting selected from a group consisting of minimum light settings according to national and local buildings codes minimum light settings according to OSHA minimum light settings according to various standards organizations minimum light settings according to insurance company requirements and minimum light settings according to building owner requirements AutoID A B C D E F data signals consisting of serial numbers related to various LED A B Mfg. A LED A B Mfg. B LED A B Mfg. C received via Wireless Connection R of which the data consists of dimmer matrices for each SKU that include Pulse Width Modulation Duty Cycles matched to the desired light outputs and logical circuits which include SKU vs. Output Power Ports A B C D E F H I vs. LED A B Mfg. A LED A B Mfg. B LED A B Mfg. C .

Lighting Controller uses all available data to intelligently select the correct Pulse Width Modulation duty cycle setting that is required for each LED A B Mfg. A LED A B Mfg. B LED A B Mfg. C and which physical channels to distribute power over to the various lights LED A B Mfg. A LED A B Mfg. B LED A B Mfg. C in the lighting network.

Lighting Controller communicates with the Power Conditioning Modules A B C on Line Cards A B C the correct DC volt and amperage settings according the SKU of each LED A B Mfg. A LED A B Mfg. B LED A B Mfg. C . In addition Lighting Controller communicates with Microcontrollers A B C on Line Cards A B C the correct PWM duty cycle settings for each physical channel that is connected to Output Power Ports A B C D E F H I that are connected to LED A B Mfg. A LED A B Mfg. B LED A B Mfg. C .

The intelligent lighting back end system can store relevant lighting system data tables in Hybrid Cloud and or Hybrid Cloud located on Internet via Router . The intelligent lighting system also includes at least one Access Point so mobile users can control the system via apps on mobile phones and tablets.

The present invention s network gear can also be used to power Digital Signage and Marketing systems .

Lastly the present invention s Optional Industrial Controller is programmed to use Shared Memory to access parameters data electronic identities and triggers to control Relays PLC s and Solenoids that may be connected to walk in coolers oven belt speeds and temperatures HVAC thermostats etc.

The present invention has been described in particular detail with respect to several possible embodiments. Those of skill in the art may appreciate that the invention may be practiced in other embodiments. First the particular naming of the components and capitalization of terms is not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the invention or its features may have different names formats or protocols. Also the particular division of functionality between the various systems components described herein is merely exemplary and not mandatory. Functions performed by a single system component may instead be performed by multiple components and functions performed by multiple components may instead performed by a single component.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as determining or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage devices. Certain aspects of the present invention include process steps and instructions. It should be noted that the process steps and instructions of the present invention could be embodied in software firmware or hardware and when embodied in software could be downloaded to reside on and be operated from different platforms.

Furthermore the computers referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability. The scope of this invention should be determined by the appended claims and their legal equivalents rather than by the examples given.

