---

title: Semiconductor chip stacking assemblies
abstract: Embodiments of the invention provide semiconductor chip stacking assemblies that provide direct attachment of a first semiconductor device with a second semiconductor device. An assembly comprises a first semiconductor chip that has a first and a second set of electrical interconnect regions disposed on its surface and a second semiconductor chip. The first set of electrical interconnect regions are electrically connected with the electrical interconnect regions of a second semiconductor chip, and the second set of electrical interconnect regions are electrically interconnected with the substrate. Direct electrical connections are for example, silicon photonics device-to-driver or device-to-signal converters, logic-to-memory, memory-to-memory, and logic-to-logic chip interconnections.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09633983&OS=09633983&RS=09633983
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09633983
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160209
---
The present application is a division of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 977 242 filed Jun. 28 2013 which is a national phase entry under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application No. PCT US2011 063601 filed Dec. 6 2011 and entitled SEMICONDUCTOR CHIP STACKING ASSEMBLIES and the entire contents and disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties and for all purposes.

This invention was made with Government support under contract number H98230 08 3 0011 awarded by the Department of Defense. The Government has certain rights in this invention. 

The embodiments of the invention relate generally to semiconductor devices packages for semiconductor devices semiconductor device stacking assemblies and optical communication and data transfer.

Integrated circuit IC chip performance power management and size improvements place increasing demands on the materials and techniques used for packaging and assembly of the resultant IC chips. In general an integrated circuit chip is also known as a microchip a silicon chip a semiconductor chip a chip or a die. IC chips are found in a variety of common devices such as the microprocessors in computers cars televisions CD players smart phones and cellular phones. After manufacture a semiconductor chip is typically packaged in a manner which takes into account the operating environment provided by the device in which the semiconductor chip will reside. In general the package for the semiconductor chip protects the chip from damage and supplies electronic connections that connect the semiconductor chip to power supplies and other electronic components performing for example input output functions . As semiconductor chips trend toward higher bandwidth performance and users desire smaller form factors the packaging of the semiconductor chips must meet size thermal management power delivery interconnect density and integration challenges.

Embodiments of the invention provide semiconductor chip stacking assemblies that provide direct attachment of a first semiconductor device with a second semiconductor device.

Semiconductor chip assemblies according to embodiments of the invention can be flip chip bonded to a substrate or directly to a motherboard. Embodiments of the invention provide low z height form factor packages and assemblies while providing desirable 3D system integration. Embodiments of the invention can be used for example for silicon photonics device to driver or device to signal converters logic to memory memory to memory and logic to logic interface stacking assemblies. Packaging assemblies according to embodiments of the invention are useful for example for packaging drivers with lasers and transimpedance amplifiers with photodetectors.

In embodiments of the invention the electrical interconnects associated with the first semiconductor chip can be for example conducting pillars pads bumps columns pins or other conducting structures. Electrical interconnects not shown associated with the substrate can be for example conducting pillars pads bumps columns pins or other conducting structures. The electrical connection between the first semiconductor chip and the substrate can be formed with or without solder. Semiconductor chip is electronically coupled to substrate through for example an optional solder joint . Solder joint is bonded to and makes an electrical connection with electrical interconnects on semiconductor chip and corresponding electrical interconnects not shown on substrate . In an embodiment of the invention the electrical interconnects of the substrate are pads the corresponding electrical interconnects of the first semiconductor chip are bumps columns or pins and an electrical connection is formed with a solder joint . Electrical interconnections and metal metal bonding between conducting pillars pads bumps columns pins or other conducting structures that are formed without solder can be accomplished for example through thermocompression bonding thermosonic bonding and or epoxy bonding of the chips. In embodiments of the invention the pillars pads bumps columns pins or other conducting structures can be comprised of gold or copper and thermocompression bonding is used to join them. In embodiments of the invention electrical interconnects are comprised of a metal. The metal that forms electrical interconnections and those associated with substrate can be for example copper gold tungsten platinum and or aluminum.

A second semiconductor chip is located between the substrate and the first semiconductor chip . The second semiconductor chip is directly bonded to and electrically interconnected with the first semiconductor chip though electrical interconnections . Bonding can be through a solder region. Corresponding electrical interconnect regions on the first semiconductor chip and the second semiconductor chip are for example conducting pillars pads bumps columns pins or other conducting structures. Electrical interconnections and metal metal bonding between conducting pillars pads bumps columns pins or other conducting structures can also be accomplished for example through thermocompression bonding thermosonic bonding and or epoxy. The metal that forms electrical interconnections can be for example copper gold tungsten platinum and or aluminum. In embodiments of the invention the second semiconductor chip is a driver for a laser or a transimpedance amplifier for a photodetector. In general a transimpedance amplifier TIA converts a current signal from a photodetector into a voltage signal and amplifies it. In further embodiments of the invention the second semiconductor chip is a logic chip a memory chip a processor a graphics chip a wireless communication chip or a wireless communication chipset. In embodiments of the invention the second semiconductor chip is a thinned semiconductor chip. The semiconductor chip can be thinned to 50 m or less in height or between 100 m and 20 m in height.

The distance between a first side of the first semiconductor chip and the proximate side of the substrate is represented by h and h in and respectively. The height of the gap between the first semiconductor chip and the substrate h can be for example a value between 75 and 150 m in embodiments of the invention. Solder joints can be sized to create a gap having a desired height. For example the solder joints can be 25 to 145 m or 80 to 145 m in height in embodiments of the invention. The recessed region in substrate is proximate to the second semiconductor chip and allows the height h to be less than the height h. The height of the gap between the first semiconductor chip and the substrate h can be for example a value between 15 and 125 m in embodiments of the invention.

The first semiconductor chip can be flip chip bonded to the substrate . Optionally an underfill material is placed in the gap . The underfill material can comprise for example a flowable dielectric material such as for example an epoxy with or without filler particles or a polymer or inorganic material with or without filler particles.

The semiconductor chips discussed herein can be any type of integrated circuit device such as logic chips processors single core or multi core memory chips analog chips digital chips graphics chips and or MEMS devices. For example the first semiconductor chip can be a processor a stacked memory logic unit or a plurality of stacked memory chips and the second semiconductor chip can be a memory chip or a logic chip. Other exemplary chips that can form combinations include microprocessors graphics processors signal processors network processors system on chip SoC having multiple functional units such as one or more processing units graphics units communications units signal processing units security units wireless communication chips and or wireless communications chipsets. The term processor can refer to any device or portion of a device that processes electronic data from registers and or memory to transform that electronic data into other electronic data that may be stored in registers and or memory. A memory chip can be for example static random access memory SRAM chip and or a dynamic random access memory DRAM chip and or a non volatile memory chip. Wireless communication chips enable wireless communications for the transfer of data to and from a computing device. The term does not imply that the associated devices do not contain any wires although in some embodiments they might not. A wireless communication chip may implement any of a number of wireless standards or protocols including but not limited to Wi Fi IEEE 802.11 family WiMAX IEEE 802.16 family IEEE 802.20 long term evolution LTE Ev DO HSPA HSDPA HSUPA EDGE GSM GPRS CDMA TDMA DECT Bluetooth derivatives thereof as well as any other wireless protocols that are designated as 3G 4G 5G and beyond. A first wireless communication chip may be dedicated to shorter range wireless communications such as Wi Fi and Bluetooth and a second wireless communication chip may be dedicated to longer range wireless communications such as GPS EDGE GPRS CDMA WiMAX LTE Ev DO and others and the first and the second communication chips may form a communications chipset. In alternate embodiments of the invention the first semiconductor chip is a silicon photonics device such as a photodetector chip or a laser chip and the second semiconductor chip is a driver chip or a transimpedance amplifier chip.

Package structures according to embodiments of the invention can comprise part of any type of computing system such as for example a hand held computing system e.g. a cell phone smart phone or music player a mobile computing system e.g. a laptop netbook or tablet a desktop computing system a server or a supercomputer. A package structure can be mounted onto a mainboard assembly for integration into a computing system. In general a mainboard may comprise any suitable type of circuit board or other substrate capable of providing electrical communication between one or more of the various components of the computing system disposed on the board and between the various components disposed on the board and other connected remote elements of the computing system.

Persons skilled in the relevant art appreciate that modifications and variations are possible throughout the disclosure as are substitutions for various components shown and described. Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure material or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the invention but does not necessarily denote that they are present in every embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures materials or characteristics disclosed in the embodiments may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. Various additional layers and or structures may be included and or described features may be omitted in other embodiments.

