---

title: USB drive security systems and methods
abstract: Systems and methods are presented for detecting, by a universal serial bus (USB) drive operatively coupled with a computing device, power from the computing device, and determining, by the USB drive, that drivers associated with the USB drive have been installed on the computing device. The systems and methods may determine that drivers associated with the USB drive have been installed by sending, to the computing device, a digital signal indicating a predetermined keystroke until the USB drive receives a response from the computing device, and receiving, from the computing device, a feedback response to the digital signal indicating the predetermined keystroke has been received. The systems and methods further executing, by the USB drive, a macro to download a payload to the computing device from a server computer, causing by the USB drive, the payload to execute on the computing device, and causing, by the USB drive, the downloaded payload to be deleted from the computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09582445&OS=09582445&RS=09582445
owner: Viewpost IP Holdings, LLC
number: 09582445
owner_city: Maitland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160329
---
The present disclosure relates generally to Universal Serial Bus USB drive security systems and methods.

Information security is the practice of defending information from unauthorized access use replication or destruction. Worldwide spending on information security is in the billions of dollars annually and growing fast. To ensure that information systems and data are secure companies and governments employ various security controls such as firewalls anti virus protection encryption of sensitive data etc. and retain numerous personnel to implement these solutions and to respond to any breach of security controls. None of these controls are effective against a user plugging in a compromised Universal Serial Bus USB drive into his or her computer.

USB drives are such an easy mechanism for storing and sharing information that they are handed out at conferences exchanged between colleagues and friends for work and personal use and have been used specifically for hacking into sensitive government and corporate systems to gain access to confidential information. Unfortunately users are not educated on how dangerous USB drives can be. Systems and methods described herein provide example mechanisms for defending against compromised USB drives and for offensively tracking and identifying target users. In some example embodiments the devices and methods described herein may be used to train employees on the dangers of connecting unauthorized devices e.g. USB drives to computing devices.

For example a customized USB drive is provided that includes special instructions for executing a macro once the USB drive is inserted by a user into a computer. The USB drive can be left in an obvious location where the user may see it and pick it up e.g. parking lot break room walkway bathroom executive offices information technology personnel desk etc. . Once the user finds the customized USB drive he may insert it into his computer to see what is on it or to use for his own use. The customized USB drive may act as a USB HID device e.g. a keyboard and use a repeated predetermined key press e.g. caps lock as a mechanism to determine whether the driver for the USB drive is successfully installed.

After the USB drive detects that the driver is successfully installed the USB drive executes any software instructions such as a macro e.g. that may run a VBS Virtual Basic Scripting Edition Script e.g. cscript . In one example the macro sends digital signals indicating keystrokes to invoke a command prompt on the user s computer. At the command prompt the macro sends digital signals indicating keystrokes to type out instructions e.g. a script at the command prompt. The script may be just a few instructions for downloading a payload from a server computer. The macro causes the instructions to be run by sending a digital signal indicating an enter key to run the script to download the payload from the server computer. In this way the USB drive may control the instructions and execution of the script and does not have to rely upon a user or the computer to execute the macro or script.

The macro downloads a payload from a server computer and then executes the payload on the user s computer. The payload collects data from the user s computer such as a username an IP address a MAC address a domain name a computer name a date a time an operating system a screen capture a geolocation etc. The payload sends the data collected e.g. via a HTTP POST to a server computer for storage and analysis.

The server computer may generate reports based on the data and provide access to an administrator to the data and reports. For example the administrator can view e.g. via a web interface or application how many USB drives were placed and where they were placed. In addition for each USB drive the administrator may view which drives were inserted into a computer and which were not. The administrator may also view the data collected from each machine and any analysis or reports generated by the server computer. The administrator may use this information to determine which departments or personnel need more education about USB drives test out other security methods see trends etc. Accordingly embodiments described herein allow an administrator e.g. security personnel to assess the risk associated with USB drives to determine further security and educational measures to defend against compromised USB drives. Moreover there may be a readme file on the USB drive that educates the user on the security issues with unknown USB drives or the USB drive may provide an alert to the user with similar information.

The example embodiments described herein may also be used to track and identify particular users. For example the customized USB drive may be left in an obvious location for a particular user e.g. a target user . The USB drive may cause various data to be collected from the computer of the target user and the server computer may analyze that data to determine the type of computer or computers the target user accesses where the target user travels where the target user lives or works other devices used by the target user etc.

The client device s may access the various data and applications provided by other entities in the system via a web client e.g. a browser such as the Internet Explorer browser developed by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. State or one or more client applications. The client device s may include one or more applications also referred to as apps such as but not limited to a web browser messaging application electronic mail email application an e commerce site application a mapping or location application a time management application a security application and the like. In some embodiments one or more applications may be included in a given client device and configured to locally provide the user interface and at least some of the functionalities with the application configured to communicate with other entities in the system e.g. server system on an as needed basis for data and or processing capabilities not locally available e.g. access security analysis and reports related to USB drives to authenticate a user etc. . Conversely one or more applications may not be included in the client device and then the client device may use its web browser to access the one or more applications hosted on other entities in the system e.g. server system .

One or more users may be a person a machine or other means of interacting with the client device s . In example embodiments the user may not be part of the system but may interact with the system via the client device s or other means. For instance the user may provide input e.g. touch screen input or alphanumeric input to the client device s and the input may be communicated to other entities in the system e.g. server system via the network . In this instance the other entities in the system in response to receiving the input from the user may communicate information to the client device s via the network to be presented to the user . In this way the user may interact with the various entities in the system using the client device s .

The USB drive s may be a data storage device. The USB drive s may be known by a variety of different names such as a USB flash drive flash memory drive jump drive pen drive thumb drive USB data stick etc. As shown in a USB drive may comprise an interface a controller and a memory . The interface may be used to couple with or connect to a computing device such as client device s .

The controller may be a microcontroller configured to perform various methods described herein. The controller may utilize software firmware e.g. a software program or set of instructions programmed into a read only memory and or hardware to perform various functions described herein. For example the controller may contain instructions to send a digital signal indicating a predetermined keystroke to a client device execute a macro once the controller receives a feedback response from the digital signal and cause a payload that has been downloaded from a server computer to be executed on the client device .

The memory may be used to store the instructions embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein and other data. The memory may be accessible by the controller . The memory may comprise one or more different types of memory. For example the memory may refer to a computer or machine readable medium able to store data temporarily or permanently and may be taken to include but not be limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM buffer memory flash memory and cache memory.

While the memory is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term memory or machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media able to store the instructions or other data. The memory may be memory separate from the controller the memory may reside completely or at least partially within the controller e.g. the controller may be a microcontroller with a small amount of on chip ROM and RAM etc. or any suitable combination thereof. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium or combination of multiple media that is capable of storing instructions for execution by a machine e.g. USB drive such that the instructions when executed by one or more processors of the machine e.g. controller cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies described herein. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to one or more data repositories in the form of a solid state memory e.g. flash memory an optical medium a magnetic medium other non volatile memory e.g. erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or any suitable combination thereof. The term machine readable medium specifically excludes non statutory signals per se.

The USB drive may be configured to act as a USB host device or USB HID Human Interface Device . For example the USB drive may include one or more stored descriptors that include information identifying the USB drive as a host device. When the USB drive is coupled with a computing device e.g. client device the computing device may read the descriptor s to determine that the USB drive is a host device.

In one example the USB drive may act similar to a keyboard but instead is pre programmed ahead of time to type out specific characters automatically. For example it may be pre programmed to send a digital signal indicating a predetermined keystroke such as caps lock num lock scroll lock etc. The USB drive may also act as a combination or hybrid host device e.g. keyboard device and storage device e.g. conventional USB drive .

In an example embodiment hardware of the USB drive may be modified to include a unique identifier and or a customer identifier e.g. one or more identifiers may be stored on the USB drive . This unique identifier and or customer identifier may be used to track and identify a particular USB drive and an entity associated with the USB drive . For example the unique identifier associated with the USB drive and or customer identifier may be sent to a server computer once the USB drive is inserted into a computer. In one example a payload running on a computing device may pull the unique identifier and or customer identifier that is stored on the USB drive and send the unique identifier and or customer identifier a server computer. The hardware of the USB drive may also be configured so that it would be difficult to repurpose. For example the hardware layout could be designed so that it is obfuscated by not exposing pads that are attached to pins on the chip that are responsible for programming internal memory.

Referring again to the user may use one or more USB drive s by coupling the USB drive s with one or more client device s . For example the user may want to store data on the USB drive s or retrieve data from the USB drive s . The user may connect the USB drive s to the client device by inserting the interface of the USB drive s into a USB interface on the client device s . The user may then store data from the client device s or the Internet via client device s or may access or copy data from the USB drive s to the client device s .

In some embodiments the user may be a security administrator. The user may use a client device to access data analysis reports etc. related to USB drive s .

The system may further include a network . One or more portions of the network may be an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network a wireless network a WiFi network a WiMax network another type of network or a combination of two or more such networks.

A server system may provide server side functionality via the network e.g. the Internet or wide area network WAN to one or more client devices . The server system may be a cloud computing environment according to some example embodiments.

The server system may include security server that may be communicatively coupled with one or more databases . The database s may be storage devices that store information such as payloads for collecting data from a computing device such as client device s data collected from a computing device analytics or reports related to data collected from one more computing devices etc.

The security server may provide functionality to receive a request for a payload from a client device s send a payload to a client device receive data collected from one or more client device s store data collected from one or more client device s analyze data collected from one or more client device s and generate one or more reports associated with the data etc.

The server system may interact with client device s to provide analysis and reports related to data collected from one or more client device s . For example the server system may provide a user interface for a user such as a security administrator at an entity to review analysis and reports related to USB drive security issues.

In one example a user may find a USB drive in the lobby when he arrives at work and take it to his computer at work to see if he can figure out who it belongs to or what data is on it. The user may connect or insert a USB drive into a client device . In operation the USB drive e.g. via controller may detect that power has been received from the client device .

The USB drive e.g. via the controller will want to know when the drivers for the USB drive have been installed on the client device so that it may execute a macro. If the macro is executed before the drivers are installed the intent of the macro may fail. The controller may be a microcontroller that is a small computer without an operating system. The controller may comprise instructions that it is programmed to do as soon as it gets power. The controller has a mechanism for detecting when drivers are installed so that it can execute further instructions. In one example embodiment the controller may send predetermined digital signals to the client device until it receives a feedback response from the client device indicating that the drivers for the USB drive have been installed. For example if the controller receives a response from the operating system of the client device the controller will know that the drivers have been installed for that communication to occur. Example embodiments describing a digital signal indicating a keystroke are used herein however any digital signal may be used that receives a feedback in response.

At operation the controller sends a digital signal to the client device indicating a predetermined keystroke. In one example the controller may send a digital signal indicating a caps lock key press however any key that has a feedback response may be used. At operation the controller determines whether a feedback response has been received from the client device e.g. indicating that the predetermined keystroke was received . If a response has not been received at operation the controller returns to operation . The controller continues looping through operations until the controller receives a feedback response from the client device .

In the example of using a caps lock key press the feedback response may be a light on the keyboard. The light on the keyboard illuminates because the client device e.g. the operating system of the client device instructs the light to turn on in response to a caps lock key press e.g. a digital input signal from a keyboard . The controller may be able to determine if the caps lock is enabled or not by querying the operating system of the client device . This is one example of how to determine whether a two way communication between the USB drive and operating system client device has been established.

Once the controller receives a feedback response the controller executes a macro at operation to download a payload to the client device from a server computer e.g. security server . The macro may be a very short macro e.g. a small payload program script etc. with as few characters as possible that functions to download a payload e.g. a larger payload from a server computer. The macro may request the payload from the server computer. Once the payload is downloaded and received at the client device the controller causes the payload to be executed on the client device at operation . For example the macro may detect when the payload has been downloaded and then execute the payload when it is finished downloading.

At operation the controller may delete the downloaded payload from the client device e.g. after the payload has been executed or after the payload has finished executing . In one example the macro deletes the payload after it has been executed and is running in memory. In another example the payload could delete itself after it has been executed. The program may be deleted but still be running in memory. In this way even if the user were to remove the USB drive the payload may still finish collecting and sending data.

At operation the payload on the client device collects data from the client device e.g. computing device . For example the payload may collect identifying data such as one or more usernames a hostname an IP address a MAC address a domain name a computer name a date a time an operating system type a screen capture a geolocation etc. In another example the payload may collect files or other data off of the computer.

At operation the payload sends the data to a server computer e.g. security server for storage analysis and reporting. The data may further include a unique identifier associated with the USB drive and or a customer identifier associated with an entity that placed the USB drive in the client device .

In an example embodiment the payload or USB drive may detect whether the client device is able to receive the payload and send data. For example the payload or USB drive may determine whether the client device is connected to a network or other means e.g. Bluetooth short wave radio etc. for sending and receiving data from a remote server computer. If the client device is not able to receive the payload and send data the USB drive may wait until the next time the client device is connected to a network or other communication means to download the payload and or for the payload to send data to the server computer.

In another example embodiment the USB drive may detect other devices near the client device . For example it may look for other devices in Bluetooth range and report back on those items. For instance the USB drive may detect that the user also has an iPhone a windows phone an iPad a photo frame a Fitbit etc.

In another example embodiment the USB drive may notify the user to educate the user about the security risks of using an unknown USB drive. For example the USB drive may contain a readme file with information or may cause a message to be displayed to the user.

At operation a server computer e.g. security server receives a request for a payload from a client device e.g. via a macro executed by controller of USB drive . The security server may authenticate the request e.g. confirm that the request is received from an authorized USB drive etc. . At operation the security server sends the payload to the computing device e.g. client device .

At operation the security server receives data from the computing device and stores the data at operation . At operation the security server analyzes the data and prepares reports based on the analysis of the data. For example the security server may catalog the received data format the received data and make the data available to present to an administrator.

At operation the security server receives a request to access data and analysis reports. For example a user may use a client device to log on to a website or access an application. The security server may confirm that the user is authorized to access the data and analysis e.g. correct username and password from an authorized client device etc. . At operation the security server provides access to the data to the user . The user e.g. security administrator may be able to filter and query the data. For example the administrator may be a large organization deploying any number of USB drives e.g. etc. . The security administrator may want to filter the data based on the location where the USB drives were placed e.g. in a particular building in the parking lot etc. . In this way the security administrator can see if more USB drives were inserted in computers in a particular building or department etc. and target education accordingly. In another example a security administrator may filter or query the data based on various factors. For example the security administrator may filter or query the data based on whether people on average plug in the USB drive into their personal computer or work computer etc. Also the security administrator may be able to view timing information related to when or how soon a USB drive was inserted into a device after leaving the USB drive in various locations etc.

Example embodiments described herein utilize a USB drive. Other external storage devices such as a compact disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD could be used in embodiments described herein. For example a client device may be configured to autorun after a CD or DVD is inserted. The macro stored on the CD or DVD would automatically run cause the payload to be downloaded etc. as described above. Likewise other interfaces for interfacing with a storage device may be utilized. For example IEEE 1394 standard High Performance Serial Bus e.g. Firewire High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Lightning or other means.

In various implementations the operating system manages hardware resources and provides common services. The operating system includes for example a kernel services and drivers . The kernel acts as an abstraction layer between the hardware and the other software layers consistent with some embodiments. For example the kernel provides memory management processor management e.g. scheduling component management networking and security settings among other functionality. The services can provide other common services for the other software layers. The drivers are responsible for controlling or interfacing with the underlying hardware according to some embodiments. For instance the drivers can include display drivers camera drivers BLUETOOTH or BLUETOOTH Low Energy drivers flash memory drivers serial communication drivers e.g. Universal Serial Bus USB drivers WI FI drivers audio drivers power management drivers. USB drive drivers and so forth.

In some embodiments the libraries provide a low level common infrastructure utilized by the applications . The libraries can include system libraries e.g. C standard library that can provide functions such as memory allocation functions string manipulation functions mathematic functions and the like. In addition the libraries can include API libraries such as media libraries e.g. libraries to support presentation and manipulation of various media formats such as Moving Picture Experts Group 4 MPEG4 . Advanced Video Coding H.264 or AVC Moving Picture Experts Group Layer 3 MP3 Advanced Audio Coding AAC Adaptive Multi Rate AMR audio codec Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG or JPG or Portable Network Graphics PNG graphics libraries e.g. an OpenGL framework used to render in two dimensions 2D and three dimensions 3D in graphic content on a display database libraries e.g. SQLite to provide various relational database functions web libraries e.g. WebKit to provide web browsing functionality and the like. The libraries can also include a wide variety of other libraries to provide many other APIs to the applications .

The frameworks provide a high level common infrastructure that can be utilized by the applications according to some embodiments. For example the frameworks provide various graphic user interface GUI functions high level resource management high level location services and so forth. The frameworks can provide a broad spectrum of other APIs that can be utilized by the applications some of which may be specific to a particular operating system or platform.

In an example embodiment the applications include a home application a contacts application a browser application a book reader application a location application a media application a messaging application a game application and a broad assortment of other applications such as a third party applications . According to some embodiments the applications are programs that execute functions defined in the programs. Various programming languages can be employed to create one or more of the applications structured in a variety of manners such as object oriented programming languages e.g. Objective C Java or C or procedural programming languages e.g. C or assembly language . In a specific example the third party application e.g. an application developed using the ANDROID or IOS software development kit SDK by an entity other than the vendor of the particular platform may be mobile software running on a mobile operating system such as IOS . ANDROID . WINDOWS Phone or another mobile operating system. In this example the third party application can invoke the API calls provided by the operating system to facilitate functionality described herein.

Some embodiments may include a security application . In certain embodiments this may be a stand alone application that operates to manage communications with a server system such as server system . In other embodiments this functionality may be integrated with another application such as a broader security or information systems application or another such application. In other embodiments the security application may reside on a server computer such as on server system and be accessible via a client device .

Security application may receive requests for various data analysis and reports related to USB drive s and provide such data analysis and reports in response to such a request. Security application may display various options for security data and may provide the capability for a user to input data associated with USB drive s and related information via a touch interface keyboard etc. of machine communication with a server system via I O components and receipt and storage of USB drive data in memory . Presentation of USB drive security information and user inputs associated with USB drive security information may be managed by security application using different frameworks library elements or operating system elements operating on a machine .

In various embodiments the machine comprises processors memory and I O components which can he configured to communicate with each other via a bus . In an example embodiment the processors e.g. a central processing unit CPU a reduced instruction set computing RISC processor a complex instruction set computing CISC processor a graphics processing unit GPU a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a radio frequency integrated circuit RFIC another processor or any suitable combination thereof include for example a processor and a processor that may execute the instructions . The term processor is intended to include multi core processors that may comprise two or more independent processors also referred to as cores that can execute instructions contemporaneously. Although shows multiple processors the machine may include a single processor with a single core a single processor with multiple cores e.g. a multi core processor multiple processors with a single core multiple processors with multiples cores or any combination thereof.

The memory comprises a main memory a static memory and a storage unit accessible to the processors via the bus according to some embodiments. The storage unit can include a machine readable medium on which are stored the instructions embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions can also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory within the static memory within at least one of the processors e.g. within the processor s cache memory or any suitable combination thereof during execution thereof by the machine . Accordingly in various embodiments the main memory the static memory and the processors are considered machine readable media .

As used herein the term memory refers to a machine readable medium able to store data temporarily or permanently and may be taken to include but not be limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM buffer memory flash memory and cache memory. While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database or associated caches and servers able to store the instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium or combination of multiple media that is capable of storing instructions e.g. instructions for execution by a machine e.g. machine such that the instructions when executed by one or more processors of the machine e.g. processors cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies described herein. Accordingly a machine readable medium refers to a single storage apparatus or device as well as cloud based storage systems or storage networks that include multiple storage apparatus or devices. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to one or more data repositories in the form of a solid state memory e.g. flash memory an optical medium a magnetic medium other non volatile memory e.g. erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or any suitable combination thereof. The term machine readable medium specifically excludes non statutory signals per se.

The I O components include a wide variety of components to receive input provide output produce output transmit information exchange information capture measurements and so on. In general it will be appreciated that the I O components can include many other components that are not shown in . The I O components are grouped according to functionality merely for simplifying the following discussion and the grouping is in no way limiting. In various example embodiments the I O components include output components and input components . The output components include visual components e.g. a display such as a plasma display panel PDP a light emitting diode LED display a liquid crystal display LCD a projector or a cathode ray tube CRT acoustic components e.g. speakers haptic components e.g. a vibratory motor other signal generators and so forth. The input components include alphanumeric input components e.g. a keyboard a touch screen configured to receive alphanumeric input a photo optical keyboard or other alphanumeric input components point based input components e.g. a mouse a touchpad a trackball a joystick a motion sensor or other pointing instruments tactile input components e.g. a physical button a touch screen that provides location and force of touches or touch gestures or other tactile input components audio input components e.g. a microphone and the like.

In some further example embodiments the I O components include biometric components motion components environmental components or position components among a wide array of other components. For example the biometric components include components to detect expressions e.g. hand expressions facial expressions vocal expressions body gestures or eye tracking measure biosignals e.g. blood pressure heart rate body temperature perspiration or brain waves identify a person e.g. voice identification retinal identification facial identification fingerprint identification or electroencephalogram based identification and the like. The motion components include acceleration sensor components e.g. accelerometer gravitation sensor components rotation sensor components e.g. gyroscope and so forth. The environmental components include for example illumination sensor components e.g. photometer temperature sensor components e.g. one or more thermometers that detect ambient temperature humidity sensor components pressure sensor components e.g. barometer acoustic sensor components e.g. one or more microphones that detect background noise proximity sensor components e.g. infrared sensors that detect nearby objects gas sensor components e.g. machine olfaction detection sensors gas detection sensors to detect concentrations of hazardous gases for safety or to measure pollutants in the atmosphere or other components that may provide indications measurements or signals corresponding to a surrounding physical environment. The position components include location sensor components e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS receiver component altitude sensor components e.g. altimeters or barometers that detect air pressure from which altitude may be derived orientation sensor components e.g. magnetometers and the like.

Communication can be implemented using a wide variety of technologies. The I O components may include communication components operable to couple the machine to a network or devices via a coupling and a coupling respectively. For example the communication components include a network interface component or another suitable device to interface with the network . In further examples communication components include wired communication components wireless communication components cellular communication components near field communication NFC components BLUETOOTH components e.g. BLUETOOTH Low Energy . WI FI components and other communication components to provide communication via other modalities. The devices may be another machine or any of a wide variety of peripheral devices e.g. a peripheral device coupled via a Universal Serial Bus USB .

Moreover in some embodiments the communication components detect identifiers or include components operable to detect identifiers. For example the communication components include radio frequency identification RFID tag reader components NFC smart tag detection components optical reader components e.g. an optical sensor to detect a one dimensional bar codes such as a Universal Product Code UPC bar code multi dimensional bar codes such as a Quick Response QR code. Aztec Code Data Matrix Dataglyph. MaxiCode PDF417. Ultra Code Uniform Commercial Code Reduced Space Symbology UCC RSS 2D bar codes and other optical codes acoustic detection components e.g. microphones to identify tagged audio signals or any suitable combination thereof. In addition a variety of information can be derived via the communication components such as location via Internet Protocol IP geo location location via WI FI signal triangulation location via detecting a BLUETOOTH or NFC beacon signal that may indicate a particular location and so forth.

In various example embodiments one or more portions of the network can be an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN the Internet a portion of the Internet a portion of the public switched telephone network PSTN a plain old telephone service POTS network a cellular telephone network a wireless network a WI FI network another type of network or a combination of two or more such networks. For example the network or a portion of the network may include a wireless or cellular network and the coupling may be a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA connection a Global System for Mobile communications GSM connection or another type of cellular or wireless coupling. In this example the coupling can implement any of a variety of types of data transfer technology such as Single Carrier Radio Transmission Technology 1 RTT Evolution Data Optimized EVDO technology. General Packet Radio Service GPRS technology Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE technology third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP including 3G fourth generation wireless 4G networks Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS . High Speed Packet Access HSPA Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE standard others defined by various standard setting organizations other long range protocols or other data transfer technology.

In example embodiments the instructions are transmitted or received over the network using a transmission medium via a network interface device e.g. a network interface component included in the communication components and utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP . Similarly in other example embodiments the instructions are transmitted or received using a transmission medium via the coupling e.g. a peer to peer coupling to the devices . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying the instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Furthermore the machine readable medium is non transitory in other words not having any transitory signals in that it does not embody a propagating signal. However labeling the machine readable medium non transitory should not be construed to mean that the medium is incapable of movement the medium should be considered as being transportable from one physical location to another. Additionally since the machine readable medium is tangible the medium may be considered to be a machine readable device.

Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter herein.

Although an overview of the inventive subject matter has been described with reference to specific example embodiments various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader scope of embodiments of the present disclosure

The embodiments illustrated herein are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed. Other embodiments may be used and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. The Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

As used herein the term or may be construed in either an inclusive or exclusive sense. Moreover plural instances may be provided for resources operations or structures described herein as a single instance. Additionally boundaries between various resources operations modules engines and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in a context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within a scope of various embodiments of the present disclosure. In general structures and functionality presented as separate resources in the example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or resource. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single resource may be implemented as separate resources. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within a scope of embodiments of the present disclosure as represented by the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

