---

title: Fingerprint check to reduce check fraud
abstract: A digital image of a surface of a check is received. A check scanning device captures the digital image as the check moves through the check scanning device. A fingerprint is impressed on the surface of the check. A computing system uses the digital image to determine an initial match score for the fingerprint image and an image quality metric to create an adjusted match score. An alert is presented based on the adjusted match score.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09652658&OS=09652658&RS=09652658
owner: Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
number: 09652658
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160224
---
Check fraud is a major source of loss to financial institutions and businesses. In one typical scenario a fraudster writes a check for an amount of money that is greater than an amount of money that is in an account against which the check is drawn. In another typical scenario a fraudster forges a check made out to herself or himself. The fraudster then goes to a branch of the financial institution i.e. a point of transaction and attempts to obtain cash for the check. If the branch dispenses cash to the fraudster the financial institution may be unable to recover this money.

To thwart check fraud many financial institutions have required non customers or customers without identification to impress their fingerprints on the checks before providing cash. To accomplish this the person attempting to cash the check would press his or her finger into an ink pad and then press his or her finger onto the check. After the person applied his or her fingerprint to the check a bank cashier would digitally scan the check and provide cash. Initially such fingerprinting deterred fraudsters. However fraudsters eventually realized that the fingerprints were not actually checked. Consequently the deterrence value of fingerprinting potential fraudsters has decreased over time.

In one aspect a method is disclosed comprising receiving a digital image of a surface of a check wherein a fingerprint is impressed on the surface of the check the digital image including a fingerprint image using the fingerprint image to determine an initial match score for the fingerprint calculating a fingerprint image quality metric of the fingerprint image the fingerprint image quality metric being a number based on at least one or more changes made to the fingerprint image adjusting the initial match score based on the fingerprint image quality metric to create an adjusted match score and presenting an alert based on the adjusted match score.

In another aspect a computer readable storage device is disclosed comprising instructions that when executed by a processing unit of a computing device cause the computing device to receive a digital image of a surface of a check wherein a check scanning device captures the digital image as the check moves through the check scanning device wherein a fingerprint is impressed on the surface of the check and the digital image includes a fingerprint image use the fingerprint image to determine an initial match score for the fingerprint calculate a fingerprint image quality metric of the fingerprint image the fingerprint image quality metric being a number based on at least one or more changes made to the fingerprint image adjust the initial match score based on the fingerprint image quality metric to create an adjusted match score and cause a workstation device to present an alert when the adjusted match score exceeds an alert threshold.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

As briefly described above embodiments use fingerprints to detect potential check fraud. The following detailed description explains these technologies with references to the attached drawings. It will be appreciated that the drawings illustrate example implementations and should not be interpreted to represent the sole way of implementing these technologies.

As illustrated in the example of the system comprises an institution . The institution is an organization that handles check transactions. In different embodiments the institution may be a variety of different types of organization. For example the institution may be a financial institution a retail establishment a government bureau a non profit organization or another type of organization.

The institution includes a branch . The branch is a location where individuals may present checks to be deposited to be cashed or to be offered as a form of payment. For example the branch may be a bank branch a retail store a government office or another such place.

The branch includes a check scanning device . In various embodiments the check scanning device can be various types of check scanning device. For example the check scanning device can be a CheXpress CX30 check scanning device manufactured by Digital Check Corp. of Northfield Ill. a Magtek Excella check scanning device manufactured by MagTek Inc. of Seal Beach Calif. a check scanning device manufactured by RDM Corporation of Waterloo Ontario a check scanning device manufactured by Seiko Epson Corporation of Suwa Japan a check scanning device manufactured by Eastman Kodak Company of Rochester N.Y. a check scanning device manufactured by Pertech Resources Inc. of Riverton Wyo. an IBM 3890 check scanning device manufactured by International Business Machines of Armonk N.Y. an NCR 7780 check scanning device manufactured by NCR Corporation of Dayton Ohio a NDP 2000 check scanning device manufactured by Unisys Corporation a BancTec X Series check scanning device or another type of check scanning device.

In addition the branch includes a workstation device . In various embodiments the workstation device can be variety of different types of computing systems. As used in this disclosure a computing system is a set of one or more physical electronic computing devices that operate together to provide a well defined functionality. For example the workstation device may be a personal computer a point of sale device a mainframe terminal a thin client device or another type of electronic computing device.

In addition the institution comprises a fingerprint analysis system FAS . In various embodiments the FAS is implemented using a variety of different types of computing systems. For example in some embodiments the FAS comprises one or more standalone servers server blades server clusters mainframe computers intermediate network devices personal computers and or other types of computing systems.

The system also includes a network . The network is a communications network that facilitates communication between the branch and the FAS . In various embodiments the network is a variety of different types of electronic communication networks. For example in some embodiment the network is a wide area network such as the Internet. In other embodiments the network is a local area network. The network may include one or more wired or wireless communications links. A variety of networking protocols may be used in the network including but not limited to Ethernet WiFi WiMax Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP SOAP Transport Control Protocol TCP Internet Protocol and other networking protocols.

In the example of the FAS comprises a database . In various embodiments the database is implemented in various ways. For example in some embodiments the database is implemented as a plurality of physically separate databases. In other embodiments the database is implemented as a single database. Furthermore in various embodiments the database is implemented as a relational database an object oriented database an associative database or another type of database.

When an individual presents a check to a cashier at the branch the cashier instructs the individual to impress an ink fingerprint on the check. In some embodiments the individual impresses his or her fingerprint on the front surface of the check. In other embodiments the individual impresses his or her fingerprint on the rear surface of the check. The individual may place an ink fingerprint on the check by first pressing the individual s finger onto an inkpad thereby transferring ink onto the individual s finger. The individual then presses that finger onto the check thereby transferring ink on the friction ridges of the individual s finger onto the check. The ink may be a variety of different colors. For example the ink may be black blue green brown purple or another color. In various embodiments the cashier instructs the individual to place the individual s fingerprint on various parts of the check. For example in one example embodiment the cashier instructs the individual to impress the individual s fingerprint on an endorsement section of a rear surface of the check.

After the individual impresses his or her fingerprint on the check the cashier or another person passes the check through the check scanning device . The check scanning device captures at least a front image and a rear image. The front image is a digital image of the front surface of the check. The rear image is a digital image of the rear surface of the check.

In various embodiments the check scanning device is implemented in various components. For example in some embodiments the check scanning device comprises an imaging system a transport system and a track. The imaging system of the check scanning device comprises a lens lighting a sensor and a memory. The transport system of the check scanning device drives rollers that move a check down the track of the check scanning device . As the transport system drives the rollers to move the check down the track the imaging system captures digital images of both sides of the check. In some embodiments the check scanning device scans both surfaces of the check in a single pass. In other embodiments the check scanning device uses multiple passes to scan both surfaces of the check. Sensors in the check scanning device identify the start and end of the check. In some embodiments the check scanning device also contains a Magnetic Ink Character Recognition MICR reader. Furthermore in some embodiments the check scanning device comprises a franking module that prints on the check as the check moves down the track.

In various embodiments the check scanning device captures digital images having various characteristics. For example in some embodiments the check scanning device captures grayscale images. A grayscale image is a digital image in which the value of each pixel carries only information about the pixel s shade or degree of darkness but not its hue or color. Furthermore in various embodiments the check scanning device captures digital images having a plurality of different resolutions and or bit depths. For example in some embodiments the check scanning device captures digital images having a fixed native resolution and bit depth. For example the check scanning device may capture digital images having native resolutions of 300 dots per inch dpi and bit depths of 8 bits. In other embodiments the check scanning device captures digital images having other native resolutions or bit depths e.g. 32 bits 24 bits 16 bits 1 bit etc. .

The digital images captured by the check scanning device typically have resolutions of 300 dpi or less. Many commonly used check scanning devices generate grayscale digital images that have resolutions of 240 dpi 200 dpi or less. In contrast United States Federal Bureau of Investigation FBI guidelines specify that digital images of fingerprints having resolutions less than 500 dpi are not acceptable as evidence in a court of law. Thus in some embodiments the front image and the rear image produced by the check scanning device may not be acceptable as evidence in a court of law.

After generating the front image and the rear image the check scanning device transfers the front image and the rear image to the workstation device . In various embodiments the check scanning device transfers the front image and the rear image to the workstation device in a variety of ways. For example in some embodiments the check scanning device transfers the front image and the rear image to the workstation device via an external device interconnect e.g. a Universal Serial Bus USB cable a FireWire cable a serial cable a parallel port cable etc. a wireless network e.g. a WiFi network a Bluetooth network etc. a wired network e.g. a local area network a wide area network etc. or another communications technology.

When the workstation device receives the front image and the rear image from the check scanning device the workstation device and the FAS operating as a computing system use the front image or the rear image to calculate a match score. The match score represents an approximate probability that the fingerprint on the check matches a reference fingerprint. The workstation device presents an alert based on the match score. The alert instructs the cashier how to process the check.

To use the check to determine the match score the workstation device generates a fingerprint image. The fingerprint image is an image that contains the fingerprint. For example the workstation device may generate the fingerprint image by identifying and isolating a subsection of the front image or the rear image containing the fingerprint.

In some embodiments the check scanning device generates and transfers other digital images of the check to the workstation device . The other digital images of the check may include black and white digital images of the check color digital images of the check digital images with different bit depths digital images with different resolutions and so on. In some such embodiments the check scanning device generates the fingerprint image from the highest quality digital image of the front side of the check or the highest quality digital image of the rear side of the check.

After generating the fingerprint image the workstation device applies one or more image processing operations to the fingerprint image enhance the fingerprint image. The workstation device then uses the fingerprint image to generate a target fingerprint template. The target fingerprint template represents the fingerprint. As used in this disclosure a fingerprint template that represents a fingerprint is a set of data that indicates significant features of the fingerprint.

Once the workstation device has generated the target fingerprint template the workstation device sends a search request to a fingerprint analysis system FAS via the network . The search request includes the target fingerprint template.

The database stores a plurality of reference fingerprint templates. Each of the reference fingerprint templates represents a reference fingerprint. When the FAS receives the search request the FAS performs a search process to identify a reference fingerprint that most closely matches the fingerprint on the check.

In some embodiments the reference fingerprint templates in the database represent the fingerprints of individuals who are suspected of committing check fraud. Furthermore in some embodiments the reference fingerprint templates in the database do not include personally identifying information. In other embodiments the reference fingerprint templates include personally identifying information. The database may include a variety of information in addition to the reference fingerprint templates. For example the database may include a date a source location a capture system and other information such as match count statistics for each of the reference fingerprint templates. In some embodiments the database also includes other information such as fraud history information associated with reference fingerprint templates cashiers accounts locations or other factors useful in assessing the probability of a fraudulent transaction.

After the FAS calculates the match score the FAS causes the workstation device to instruct the cashier whether to perform a fraud mitigation action. As used in this disclosure a fraud mitigation action is an action performed by a person to mitigate loss due to the possibility that a check is fraudulent.

In various embodiments the FAS causes the workstation device to instruct the cashier whether to perform a fraud mitigation action in various ways. For example in some embodiments the FAS calculates a match score. The match score represents an approximate probability that one of the reference fingerprints matches the fingerprint on the check. In this example the FAS sends a search response to the workstation device via the network . The search response indicates the match score. Upon receiving the search response the workstation device determines whether the match score exceeds one or more alert thresholds. As described herein the alert thresholds may be based on a variety of factors. For example if the individual presented the check at a financial institution an alert threshold may be based on the financial institution s knowledge of rates of fraud at a location where the individual presented the check. If the workstation device determines that the match score does not exceed the alert threshold the workstation device instructs the cashier to accept the check. On the other hand if the workstation device determines that the match score exceeds the alert threshold the workstation device presents an alert that instructs the cashier to perform a fraud mitigation action. In other embodiments the FAS sends a web page to the workstation device . The workstation device displays the web page to the cashier. The web page instructs the cashier whether to perform a fraud mitigation action.

In various embodiments the workstation device instructs the cashier to perform various types of fraud mitigation actions. For example in one embodiment the workstation device instructs the cashier to perform a fraud mitigation action that entails refusing to accept the check. In another embodiment the workstation device instructs the cashier to perform a fraud mitigation action that entails accepting the check for deposit only and optionally delaying availability of the funds. In yet another embodiment the workstation device instructs the cashier to perform a fraud mitigation action that entails requiring the individual to provide additional identification requiring manager approval or requiring some other action. Many other fraud mitigation actions are possible.

In various embodiments the workstation device instructs the cashier whether to perform a fraud mitigation action in various ways. For example the workstation device may display messages on a display device. In other examples the workstation device may make a particular noise flash a light cause a vibration or otherwise present the alerts. Furthermore the workstation device may optionally alert other staff e.g. a security officer by sending an instant message an e mail message or a page.

It should be appreciated that illustrates merely one embodiment. Many other embodiments are possible. For example in some embodiments a device other than the workstation device generates the target fingerprint template to the FAS and or transmits the target fingerprint template to the FAS . In another example the workstation device transmits the fingerprint image or other digital images of the check to the FAS . The FAS applies one or more image processing operations to enhance the fingerprint image or other digital images. Furthermore in this example the FAS uses the fingerprint image or other digital images to generate the target fingerprint template.

In yet another example illustrates the database as being within the institution . However in other embodiments the database is shared between multiple institutions. For example in one example embodiment the database is a central database provided by a third party service provider who has expertise in fraud or access to fraud data. In this example embodiment each institution may be able to operate its own local database. However each of the institutions periodically receive updates from the central database. In this example embodiment each of the institutions may also periodically send updates to the central database. Alternatively in this example embodiment fingerprint analysis systems in each of the institutions may use the central database to access reference fingerprint templates. In another example embodiment multiple institutions exchange reference fingerprint templates in their databases on a peer to peer basis. In embodiments in which the reference fingerprint templates do not include personally identifying information the sharing of reference fingerprint templates does not pose a privacy risk.

As illustrated in the example of the operation starts when the check scanner interface in the workstation device receives a front image and a rear image . The front image is a digital image of a front surface of a check and the rear image is a digital image of a rear surface of the same check. A fingerprint of an individual is impressed on one of the surfaces of the check. The check scanner interface receives the front image and the rear image from the check scanning device.

Upon receiving the front image and the rear image the fingerprint location module in the workstation device generates a fingerprint image . The fingerprint location module generates the fingerprint image by identifying and isolating an area in the front image or the rear image containing the fingerprint. In various embodiments the fingerprint location module generates the fingerprint image in various ways. For example in some embodiments the fingerprint location module identifies the area containing the fingerprint through image analysis and segmentation including through differentiation of the gray levels of pixels where multiple objects are present. Furthermore in some embodiments the fingerprint location module uses a fiducial mark on the check to identify the area containing the fingerprint. In other embodiments the fingerprint location module attempts to identify and isolate a location of the fingerprint from a fixed area on the front image or the rear image. In these implementations the fingerprint location module generates an error if the fixed area does not contain a fingerprint or if the fixed area contains only part of a fingerprint.

Next the image processing module in the workstation device applies image processing operations that enhance the fingerprint image . In various embodiments the image processing module applies various image processing operations that enhance the fingerprint image. For example in some embodiments the image processing module applies image processing operations enhance the fingerprint image by reducing artifacts in the fingerprint image. These artifacts may include blurring of the fingerprint image caused by low resolution scanner equipment. Other artifacts are caused by movement of the check through the check scanning device . Example types of artifacts caused by movement of the check through the check scanning device include horizontal stretching or compression of the fingerprint image due to uneven speed of the check through the check scanning device inconsistent distance between the image sensor of the check scanning device and the check uneven insertion of the check into the check scanning device bumps in the fingerprint image due to perforation or hanging bits of paper that cause the check to move vertically or horizontally as the check moves through the check scanning device poor focus by the check scanning device and so on. Other types of artifacts in the fingerprint image are be caused by dirt streaks and bands uneven exposures framing errors upside down insertion of the check into the check scanning device backward insertion of the check into the check scanning device retention of background image data dirt or scratches on a lens of the check scanning device and so on. Further artifacts are caused by the fingerprinting process itself such as uneven application of ink smearing bleeding improper orientation and so on. Furthermore in some embodiments the image processing module applies image processing operations to sharpen edges fill in voids within the interiors of features and to complete features which are partially present due to for example uneven pressure when the fingerprint is applied to the check.

In some embodiments a fiducial mark is applied to the check. The fiducial mark is a set of marks that form a known shape. In various embodiments the fiducial mark has various forms. For example in some embodiments the fiducial mark is a set of marks indicating the corners of a square. In other embodiments the fiducial mark is a complete rectangular box a circle an oval a triangle or another shape. In some embodiments the fiducial mark surrounds the fingerprint. In other embodiments the fiducial mark does not surround the fingerprint or otherwise indicate a location of the fingerprint.

The fiducial mark always has the same known characteristics. Consequently the image processing module is able to use the fiducial mark to calculate quality information about the digital image. Furthermore the image processing module use the quality information to determine which image processing operations to use to enhance the fingerprint image. In some embodiments the image processing module uses the quality information to compensate for degradation of the digital image caused by a process used to capture the digital image. For example the image processing module may use the quality information to compensate for variations in the horizontal transport speed of the check through the check scanning device .

In various embodiments the fiducial mark has various known characteristics. For example in some embodiments the known characteristics of the fiducial mark include the width of the fiducial mark and the height of the fiducial mark. Because the fiducial mark has a known width and height the image processing module is able to more accurately detect variations in the horizontal transport speed of the check through the check scanning device . Consequently the image processing module may be able to more accurately correct the fingerprint image to compensate for such variations. Moreover because the fiducial mark always has the same size and characteristics the image processing module may use the fiducial mark to detect vertical movement of the check as the check passed through the check scanning device and more accurately identify and compensate for such vertical movement.

In various embodiments the fiducial mark is applied to the check at various times and by various people or machines. For example in some embodiments a cashier uses an ink stamp to apply the fiducial mark to the check. In other embodiments the fiducial mark is pre printed on the check.

In some embodiments no fiducial mark is applied to the check. In some such embodiments an endorsement portion of the check has multiple light gray background lines that guide the writing of an endorser. These background lines are designed to drop out in a black and white image of the check but are visible in a grayscale image of the check. Because these background lines are a fixed distance apart and perpendicular to the long edges of the check the image processing module is able to use an image of the background lines to detect variations in the horizontal transport speed of the check through the check scanning device as well as to detect skew in the image. Because the image processing module is able to detect variations in the horizontal transport speed of the check when the check was being imaged the image processing module is able to apply an image processing operation to modify the fingerprint image to compensate for the variations in the horizontal transport speed of the check. In some embodiments the image processing module applies an image processing operation that removes the background lines from the fingerprint image. In addition if the signature of the endorser impinges upon the fingerprint the image processing module applies an image processing operation to remove the signature. Because the fingerprint image is not intended for use as evidence in criminal prosecution such digital manipulation of the fingerprint image is acceptable so long as such digital manipulation does not change the fingerprint image in unknown or un reproducible ways.

Furthermore in some embodiments the image processing module detects the approximate dimensions of a check when the check scanning device scans the check. Many checks are of a standard size. For example many checks are 2.75 inches by 6 inches 3.5 inches by 8.5 inches or 3.67 inches by 8.5 inches. Tolerances for standard check sizes are typically less than 1 16 of an inch. In various embodiments the check scanning device is able to scan and process checks of various sizes including standard and non standard sizes. The image processing module compares the detected dimensions of the check to the standard check to determine a likely real size of the check. The image processing module then compares the sizes of the front image and the rear image with the likely real size of the check to detect an overall amount of stretch or compression applied to the front image and the rear image. The image processing module then adjusts the fingerprint image to compensate for the overall amount of stretch or compression applied to the front image or the rear image.

In some embodiments the image processing module performs an image processing operation that uses interpolation to enhance the fingerprint image. Typical fingerprint ridges follow generally predictable contours within small regions. Variability among fingerprints is found in macro regions. Except at ridge bifurcation points adjacent dark pixels in the fingerprint image generally form part of a single continuous dark ridge line. In other words fingerprint ridges seldom intersect. The fact that fingerprint ridges follow generally predictable contours within small regions may make fingerprints more amenable to interpolation than other types of images. Interpolation is a process of inserting a new pixel between previously adjacent pixels in an original image and adjusting an intensity of the new pixel based on the intensities of the adjacent pixels of the original image. For example if a pixel has high intensity and all pixels surrounding the pixel have low intensities the interpolation operation reduces the intensity of the pixel. By interpolating intensities of pixels in this manner the image processing operation may increase the effective resolution of the fingerprint image. For example the image processing operation may increase the effective resolution of the fingerprint image from 300 dpi to 600 dpi. The fingerprint image that results from performing this image processing operation may be suitable for use in biometric matching algorithms.

Furthermore in some embodiments the image processing module performs an image processing operation that uses edge detection to sharpen details of the fingerprint image. In such embodiments the image processing operation detects lines and edges of objects i.e. adjacent pixels of the same intensity in one direction only . Detection and sharpening of edges may be useful when the fingerprint image is scaled up.

In some embodiments the image processing module applies an image processing operation that scales the fingerprint image such that the fingerprint image has a resolution that is expected by a fingerprint template generation process. For example the image processing module may scale fingerprint images to a resolution of 600 dpi.

Furthermore in some implementations the image processing module applies a noise reduction filter image processing operation to the fingerprint image after the image processing module applies the interpolation image processing operation to the fingerprint image. The noise reduction filter image processing operation may reduce any artificial Gaussian blurring introduced by the interpolation image processing operation.

Referring again to after the image processing module applies the one or more image processing operations to the fingerprint image the fingerprint quality module calculates a fingerprint image quality metric of the fingerprint image . The fingerprint image quality metric is a measure of the expected accuracy of the fingerprint image in representing the individual s actual fingerprint. In one example implementation the fingerprint image quality metric is a number based on the amount of changes made to the fingerprint image during the image processing operations. In addition the fingerprint image quality metric may be based on other factors including but not limited to a known or calculated quality of the check scanning device an original resolution of the front image and the rear image and other factors.

After the fingerprint quality module calculates the fingerprint image quality metric of the fingerprint image the template generation module generates a target fingerprint template from the fingerprint image . The target fingerprint template is a fingerprint template that represents the fingerprint in the fingerprint image. In some embodiments the template generation module is pluggable. In other words an administrator can plug in various software modules to act as the template generation module . Each of software modules can be implemented differently. Each of the software modules may implement an application programming interface API for biometric service providers. In some embodiments the API is based on the industry standard BioAPI specification. The workstation device invokes one or more methods of the API to cause the template generation module to generate the target fingerprint template.

In various embodiments the target fingerprint template is formatted in various ways. For example in some embodiments the format of the target fingerprint template is proprietary. In other embodiments the format of the target fingerprint template is based on the International Committee for Information Technology Standards INCITS 378 standard for fingerprint templates. Furthermore in some embodiments the target fingerprint template is encrypted. In one example embodiment the target fingerprint template is encrypted such that the encrypted target fingerprint template complies with American National Standards Institute ANSI standard X9.84.

In some embodiments the template generation module generates multiple target fingerprint templates for a single fingerprint on a single check. In such embodiments the template generation module generates a target fingerprint template from the fingerprint image before the image processing module applies some or all of the image processing operations to the fingerprint image. For example the template generation module may generate a first target fingerprint template from the fingerprint image before the image processing module applies any image processing operations to the fingerprint image a second target fingerprint template from the fingerprint image after the image processing module applies an image processing operation to the fingerprint image that removes interfering marks e.g. lines background patterns etc. a third target fingerprint template from the fingerprint image after the image processing module applies an image processing operation that adjusts for transport artifacts and a fourth target fingerprint template after the image processing module applies an interpolation operation to the fingerprint image and so on.

After generating the target fingerprint template the image storage module stores the original fingerprint image the enhanced fingerprint image the fingerprint image quality metric the target fingerprint templates and other information . In various embodiments the image storage module stores the fingerprint image at a variety of locations. In a first example embodiment the image storage module stores the fingerprint image at the database . It may be possible to recalculate a new fingerprint template based on additional information obtained from the check scanning device in subsequent scans or improvements in image processing operations over time. In this first example embodiment the image storage module stores the fingerprint image until the end of the business day before transferring the fingerprint image to the database . In a second example embodiment the image storage module stores the fingerprint image at a storage device at the branch .

Next the network interface sends a search request to the FAS via the network . The search request includes the target fingerprint template. In some embodiments the network interface sends additional information to the FAS . For example in some example embodiments the network interface sends additional types biometric information to the FAS . For example in some embodiments the network interface sends a target facial scan template to the FAS . The target facial scan results from scanning the individual s face. Furthermore in some embodiments the network interface sends a target retinal scan template to the FAS . The target retinal scan template results from scanning one or more of the individual s retinas.

Subsequently the network interface receives a search response . In the example of the search response includes a match score. The match score represents an approximate probability that a fingerprint on the check matches a reference fingerprint represented by a reference fingerprint template in the database . Furthermore the network interface receives threshold adjustment factors . The threshold adjustment factors indicate adjustments to be made to alert thresholds used by the workstation device to determine whether to present alerts. After receiving the match score and the threshold adjustment factors the alert threshold module adjusts the alert thresholds based on the threshold adjustment factors .

The workstation device then determines whether the match score exceeds one or more of the alert thresholds . In some embodiments the workstation device uses different alert thresholds in different situations. For example in some embodiments the notification module uses a lower alert threshold for checks with higher monetary amounts and a higher alert thresholds for checks with lower monetary amounts. Furthermore in some embodiments where the institution is a financial institution the notification module uses a lower alert threshold for individuals who have local home addresses and a higher alert threshold for individuals who have distant home addresses. Furthermore in some embodiments the notification module uses different alert thresholds depending on information known about the individual a type of account against which the check is drawn fraud rates for the account against which the check is drawn fraud rates at the branch fraud rates for the institution as a whole fraud rates in a geographical area or other factors.

If the match score exceeds one or more alert thresholds YES of the notification module instructs the cashier transaction module to use the display interface to present one or more alerts that instruct a cashier to perform a fraud mitigation action . In various embodiments the one or more alerts instruct the cashier to perform various fraud mitigation actions. For example in some embodiments the one or more alerts instruct the cashier to perform a fraud mitigation action that entails accepting the check but segregating the check for subsequent analysis. By segregating checks based on suspicious fingerprints the institution may be able to retain the checks as physical evidence only in situations where retaining the checks would likely be useful. This may be more cost effective than attempting to retain as physical evidence all received checks.

If the match score does not exceed any of the alert thresholds NO of the notification module instructs the cashier transaction module to use the display interface to present an alert that instructs a cashier to accept the check . After presenting the alert that instructs the cashier to accept the check the cashier transaction module completes the transaction per the business processes of the institution . In various embodiments the cashier transaction module completes the transaction in various ways. For example in some embodiments where the check is accepted for cashing deposit or otherwise to satisfy a transaction the cashier transaction module performs an operation to clear the check. For example the cashier transaction module may convert the check into an ACH transaction to clear the check. In another example the check is cleared by exchanging the black and white digital images of the check. In a third example the check is cleared using a paper exchange method.

After the workstation device presents the alert to perform the fraud mitigation action in step or after the cashier transaction module completes the transaction in step the image storage module stores transaction data . In various embodiments the transaction data include various types of data. For instance in some embodiments the transaction data includes the MICR line of the check an amount of the check an identifier of the branch an identifier of the transaction information about the type of transaction e.g. deposit cash purchase etc. information about the party conducting the transaction and other information about the transaction in which the check is being used.

Furthermore in some embodiments the transaction data includes transaction identifiers and image identifiers. The transaction identifiers uniquely identify the transaction and the image identifiers uniquely identify the fingerprint image. Other records in the database use the image identifier to refer to the fingerprint image. In some embodiments the image storage module generates a database entry for a transaction. The database entry includes an image identifier that identifies the fingerprint image. In this way a person reviewing the transaction is able to access a digital image of a fingerprint applied to the check used in the transaction. Such a review may be conducted in situations where a transaction involving the check is subsequently determined to be fraudulent.

In addition the FAS comprises a cleanup module . The cleanup module determines whether the database has grown too large. In various embodiments the cleanup module determines whether the database has grown too large based on a various criteria. For instance the cleanup module may determine that the database has grown too large when the number of reference fingerprint templates in the database exceeds a given number when the total size of all reference fingerprint templates in the database exceeds a given parameter when search processes fail to complete within a given time and or other criteria.

When the database grows too large the cleanup module identifies reference fingerprint templates in the database that are not essential to the effective operation of the FAS . The cleanup module identifies reference fingerprint templates that are not essential to effective operation of the FAS based on various criteria. For instance in some example embodiments the cleanup module identifies reference fingerprint templates that have not been associated with fraud for a given period of time e.g. seven years as not essential to effective operation of the FAS . The cleanup module moves the identified reference fingerprint templates to an archive . In some embodiments removing reference fingerprint templates from the database makes searches of the database faster.

The system attempts to support conflicting objectives high degrees of accuracy and high performance throughput. Accuracy is measured by low false match rates and low false non match rates. High throughput improves response times of the FAS so that cashiers and customers are not inconvenienced by long wait times for fingerprint extraction enhancement and matching. In some embodiments the fraud history module the fingerprint image analysis module and a learning module help balance these objectives. The fraud history module manages fraud incident history data to update the database with information used to identify individuals most likely to commit fraud at the branch . The fingerprint image analysis module performs additional analysis of fingerprint images stored in the archive to identify fingerprint characteristics that caused false matches and false non matches to identify image processing operations that caused positive or negative effects.

The learning module performs a learning process that seeks to reduce a rate of false matches and false non matches. A false match occurs when a fingerprint does not match a reference fingerprint in the database but the FAS causes the workstation device to instruct the cashier to perform a fraud mitigation action. A false non match occurs when a fingerprint matches a reference fingerprint in the database but the FAS does not cause the workstation device to instruct the cashier to perform a fraud mitigation action.

In various embodiments the learning module performs various learning processes. For example in some embodiments the learning module performs a learning process that improves a process for identifying likely suspects improves reference fingerprint templates in the database and improves the accuracy of the template search module . To accomplish this the learning module monitors matches and non matches to try to determine whether or not the match scores provided by the FAS were correct. In some embodiments the learning process runs at times when the FAS is less busy such as after business hours. In one example embodiment the learning module uses extensible markup language XML records generated by the workstation device to perform this analysis. The XML records contain transaction data and fingerprint images.

When the FAS determines that the database does not contain a reference fingerprint template that matches a target fingerprint template of a check but it is later determined that the check was fraudulent the learning module determines whether the check is the work of a new fraudster or was a false non match. When the check is the work of a new fraudster the learning module adds the target fingerprint template to the database . In various embodiments the learning module performs various actions when a false non match occurs. For example in some embodiments the learning module adjusts the reference fingerprint templates on the fingerprint to improve the odds of future prints matching against the reference fingerprint template. In various embodiments the learning module adjusts the reference fingerprint templates in various ways. In one example it is determined that a given reference fingerprint template represents the same fingerprint as a target fingerprint template but the FAS did not determine that the given reference fingerprint template represents the same fingerprint as the target fingerprint template. In this example the learning module adjusts the reference fingerprint templates by replacing the given reference fingerprint template with the target fingerprint template. In another example it is determined that a given reference fingerprint template represents the same fingerprint as a target fingerprint template but the FAS did not determine that the given reference fingerprint template represents the same fingerprint as the target fingerprint template. In this other example the learning module adjusts the reference fingerprint templates by adapting the given reference fingerprint template to resemble the target fingerprint template. Furthermore when a false non match occurs the learning module in some embodiments adjusts the indexing for likely suspects to improve the odds of correctly prioritizing reference fingerprint templates for evaluation. The learning module performs these adjustments using algorithms and automated processes.

When the FAS determines that the database contains a reference fingerprint template that matches a target fingerprint template of a check but it is later determined that the check was not fraudulent i.e. either a false match occurred or a known fraudster presented a non fraudulent check the fingerprint image analysis module reanalyzes the fingerprint and provides information to the learning module that identifies a cause of the false match. If appropriate the learning module adjusts the reference fingerprint template to reduce the possibility of future false matches against the reference fingerprint template. In general the learning module adjusts reference fingerprint templates in cases where reference fingerprint template fidelity can be improved based on newly acquired fingerprint templates regardless of whether the check in question was found fraudulent.

In some embodiments the learning module evaluates whether particular types of check scanning devices tend to produce fingerprint images having higher or lower rates of false matches or false non matches. If a particular type of check scanning device produces fingerprint images having high rates of false matches or false non matches the learning module configures the match analysis module to lower the probability that fingerprints captured by the particular type of check scanning device match fingerprints represented by the reference fingerprint templates. If a particular type of check scanning device produces fingerprint images having low rates of false matches or false non matches the learning module configures the match analysis module to raise the probability that fingerprints captured by the particular type of check scanning device match fingerprints represented by the reference fingerprint templates.

Similarly in some embodiments the learning module evaluates whether individual check scanning devices tend to produce fingerprint images having higher or lower rates of false matches or false non matches. If an individual check scanning device produces fingerprint images having high rates of false matches or false non matches the learning module configures the match analysis module to lower the probability that fingerprints captured by the individual check scanning device match fingerprints represented by the reference fingerprint templates. If an individual check scanning device produces fingerprint images having low rates of false matches or false non matches the learning module configures the match analysis module to raise the probability that fingerprints captured by the individual check scanning device match fingerprints represented by the reference fingerprint templates.

The learning module also evaluates whether image processing operations performed by the workstation device increase or decrease the likelihood of false matches or false non matches by having the fingerprint image analysis module perform detailed analysis of the impact of individual image processing operations on the fingerprints. In some embodiments when the learning module determines that an image processing operation increases the likelihood of false matches or false non matches the learning module causes the workstation device to discontinue use of the image processing operation or adjust parameters of the image processing operation.

In some embodiments the FAS provides an interoperable XML based API for integration into back office check processing. This API allows transaction data to be submitted along with details of a related fraud incident. Example details of a fraud incident include a type of the fraud a date of the fraud a location of the fraud an amount of the fraud and so on. In addition the API allows an item identifier to be submitted. In some embodiments the item identifier is encrypted via a one way salted hash e.g. SHA256 or stronger .

In some embodiments when an improved technique of generating fingerprint templates is installed on the FAS the learning module reprocesses the fingerprint images of each of the reference fingerprint templates in the database to generate improved reference fingerprint templates.

Initially the network interface in the FAS receives a search request from the workstation device at the branch . The search request includes a target fingerprint template and additional information. After receiving the search request the search management module obtains search control information from the database . The search management module uses the search control information to control a search process. In various embodiments the search control information includes various types of information. For example in some embodiments the search control information indicates an allowable time to devote to the search process resources to devote to the search process a search ending threshold threshold adjustment factors and so on. Example threshold adjustment factors include recent branch fraud information image quality factors and other information.

The likely suspect search module uses the search control information to search the database and create a list of likely suspects . The likely suspects are individuals who are most likely to commit fraud at the branch .

After the likely suspect search module identifies the list of likely suspects the template search module performs a template index search on the list of likely suspects . The template index search filters the reference fingerprint templates associated with the likely suspects by those whose indexes indicate that the reference fingerprint templates may match the target fingerprint template. In this way the template search module identifies a first prioritized set of reference fingerprint templates that are possible matches to the target fingerprint template.

The search management module then determines whether there are any unscored reference fingerprint templates in the first prioritized set of reference fingerprint templates . Initially each reference fingerprint template in the first prioritized set of reference fingerprint templates is unscored. If there are one or more unscored reference fingerprint templates in the first prioritized set of reference fingerprint templates YES of the match analysis module uses the biometric module to calculate an initial match score by comparing the target fingerprint template and a selected reference fingerprint template . The selected reference fingerprint template is the highest priority unscored reference fingerprint template in the first prioritized set of reference templates. The initial match score represents a probability that the target fingerprint template is a match to the highest priority unscored reference fingerprint template. In one example implementation the template search module uses partial fingerprint template triangles and flash indexing to calculate the initial match score. Flash indexing is described in the article Fingerprint Matching Using Transformation Parameter Clustering Germain et al IBM Computational Science Engineering the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference. In one example embodiment calculating the initial match score involves comparing the number and relationship of ridges whorls and bifurcations.

In some embodiments the biometric module implements an API is based on an industry standard BioAPI biometric service provider interface. The match analysis module uses the biometric module by invoking one or more methods of the API. The biometric module encapsulates a biometric algorithm. The biometric algorithm compares the target fingerprint template to the selected reference fingerprint template and returns an initial match score. The biometric module is a pluggable module. Because the biometric module is a pluggable module the FAS is able to function independently of the biometric algorithm or biometric manufacturer chosen in any given implementation of the biometric module .

In some example embodiments the FAS includes multiple implementations of the biometric module . In such embodiments each of the implementations of the biometric module generates an initial match score. The match analysis module uses a mathematical process of weighted averaging to combine the initial match scores. In some embodiments weights associated with the implementations of the biometric module are self adjusting based on past performance accuracy of each of the implementations of the biometric module . In embodiments where the FAS is running on a computing device with multiple processing units each of the implementations of the biometric module may execute in parallel on a different one of the processing units.

After the match analysis module uses the biometric module to calculate the initial match score the match analysis module adjusts the initial match score thereby generating an adjusted match score for the selected reference fingerprint template . In various embodiments the match analysis module adjusts the initial match score based on various factors. For example the match analysis module may adjust the initial match score based on a quality of the fingerprint that was used to create the reference fingerprint template. In another example the match analysis module adjusts the initial match score based on the fingerprint image quality metric of the fingerprint image that was used to create the target fingerprint template. In yet another example the match analysis module adjusts the initial match score based on characteristics of the check scanning device . In yet another example the workstation device sends one or more other target biometric templates e.g. target facial templates target retinal templates etc. to the FAS . In this example the match analysis module adjusts the initial match score based on whether the other target biometric templates correspond to an individual associated with the selected reference fingerprint template. In yet another example the match analysis module adjusts the initial match score based on the number of past false matches associated with the selected reference fingerprint template. In yet another example the match analysis module adjusts the initial match score based on the number of past false non matches associated with the selected reference fingerprint template. In yet another example the match analysis module adjusts the initial match score based on a history of fraud e.g. a number of incidents of fraud associated with the selected reference fingerprint template. In yet another example the match analysis module adjusts the initial match score based on a chronology of fraud e.g. how recently fraud has happened associated with the selected reference fingerprint template. In other examples the match analysis module adjusts the initial match score based on a variety of other factors.

Once the match analysis module has generated the adjusted match score the search management module compares the adjusted match score with the search ending threshold . When the adjusted match score exceeds the search ending threshold the selected reference fingerprint template is deemed to be a sufficiently close match to the target fingerprint template. The search ending threshold may be set to ensure the search process ends early only on positive matches. For example the search ending threshold may be set to 95 .

If the adjusted match score does not exceed the search ending threshold NO of the search management module determines whether the time or resources allocated to the search process have been exceeded . If time and resources allocated to the search process have not been exceeded NO of the search management module determines whether there are additional unscored reference fingerprint templates in the first prioritized set of reference fingerprint templates . If there is an unscored reference fingerprint template in the first set of reference fingerprint templates steps recur with regard to a new selected reference fingerprint template. In some embodiments use of the search ending thresholds resource limits and time limits on the search process prevents the search process from taking so much time that the individual s experience is negatively impacted. In some embodiments the search ending thresholds resource limits and time limits are configured differently for different branches of the institution and varied by search request based on factors such as transaction amount.

If there are no remaining unscored reference fingerprint templates in the first prioritized set of reference fingerprint templates NO of the search management module determines whether the database includes reference fingerprint templates in addition to those associated with the likely suspects . If the database includes reference fingerprint templates in addition those associated with the likely suspects YES of the template search module generates a second prioritized set of reference fingerprint templates . The second prioritized set of reference fingerprint templates includes the reference fingerprint templates in the database that are not associated with the likely suspects. In various embodiments the second prioritized set of reference fingerprint templates is prioritized based on various factors. For example in some embodiments the second prioritized set of reference fingerprint templates is prioritized by geographic region. In other embodiments the second prioritized set of reference fingerprint templates is prioritized based on how frequently the reference fingerprint templates are associated with fraud.

After generation of the second prioritized set of reference fingerprint templates the search management module determines whether the second prioritized set of reference fingerprint templates includes any unscored reference fingerprint templates . Initially each reference fingerprint template in the second prioritized set of reference fingerprint templates is unscored. If the second prioritized set of reference fingerprint templates includes an unscored reference fingerprint template YES of the match analysis module calculates an initial match score by comparing the target fingerprint template and a selected reference fingerprint template . The selected reference fingerprint template is the highest priority unscored reference fingerprint template in the second prioritized set of reference templates. The match analysis module then adjusts the initial match score thereby generating an adjusted initial match score for the selected reference fingerprint template .

After generating the adjusted match score the search management module compares the adjusted match score with the search ending threshold . If the adjusted match score does not exceed the search ending threshold NO of the search management module determines whether the time or resources allocated to the search process have been exceeded . If the time and resources allocated to the search process have not been exceeded NO of the search management module again determines whether there are any unscored reference fingerprint templates in the second prioritized set of reference fingerprint templates . If there is an unscored reference fingerprint template in the second prioritized set of reference fingerprint templates steps recur. In some embodiments the steps and are performed in a similar way as the steps and .

Once the search management module determines that the search process is completed either because an adjusted match score exceeds the search ending threshold in steps or time or resources expired in steps or or there where no additional reference fingerprint templates in the database in step the search management module updates the database with information about the search process and results of the search process . In various embodiments this information is used in various ways. For example in some embodiments the learning module uses this information to improve system accuracy and performance. Furthermore in some embodiments this information is used for auditing purposes. In various embodiments this information is stored in various ways. For example in some embodiments the database update is performed directly in each database record in the database . In other embodiments the database contains a separate table for tracking search results.

The search management module then sends a search response to the workstation device . In various embodiments the search response includes various types of data. For example in some embodiments the search response includes the highest match score produced during the search process.

In addition to the search process described in detail in the preceding paragraphs the FAS receives post transaction information from the workstation device or other systems. In various embodiments the post transaction information includes various types of information and is used in various ways. For example in some embodiments the FAS uses the post transaction information to update the database for fraudulent transactions detected after the fact. The fraud history module uses information about fraudulent transactions detected after the fact. Furthermore in some embodiments the fingerprint analysis module and the learning module use fingerprint images in the post transaction information to refine system performance and fingerprint templates.

Furthermore in some embodiments the cashier retains suspicious checks for further processing. An employee rescans all suspicious checks using an evidentiary quality fingerprint scanner. The employee then adds the post transaction information to the database . The post transaction information includes information from each of the suspicious checks and transactions associated with the suspicious checks. In such embodiments the post transaction information may include an image of the endorsement signature for future handwriting analysis a capture of the MICR line of the check information that associates the physical check with digital images of the check information that identifies an identity token e.g. a person s driver s license used in a transaction that involved a suspicious check or information captured at the time of the transaction such as a photo record. By collecting the post transaction information the institution may be able to build a case file suitable for supporting criminal prosecution as well as providing data which can be used to improve the accuracy of the FAS .

In some embodiments the FAS runs on a computing device with two or more central processing units. In such embodiments the search management module of the FAS allocates one or more processing units to perform searching and matching operations in parallel. In such embodiments the search management module allocates the processing units based on the transaction parameters policy settings available resources and workload. At least some of the steps of can occur simultaneously on separate processing units. For example step may occur on two or more reference fingerprint templates simultaneously on separate processing units. For example if the FAS is running on a computing device with ten processing units the FAS is able to calculate initial match scores for ten reference fingerprint templates simultaneously.

As illustrated in the example of the computing device comprises a memory unit . The memory unit is a computer readable storage medium that is capable of storing data and instructions. The memory unit may be a variety of different types of computer readable storage media including but not limited to dynamic random access memory DRAM double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory DDR SDRAM reduced latency DRAM DDR2 SDRAM DDR3 SDRAM Rambus RAM or other types of computer readable storage media.

In addition the computing device comprises a processing unit . In various embodiments the processing unit is implemented in various ways. In a first example the processing unit may execute software instructions that cause the computing device to provide specific functionality. In this first example the processing unit may be implemented as one or more processing cores and or as one or more separate microprocessors. For instance in this first example the processing unit may be implemented as one or more Intel Core microprocessors. The processing unit may be capable of executing instructions in an instruction set such as the x86 instruction set the POWER instruction set a RISC instruction set the SPARC instruction set the IA 64 instruction set the MIPS instruction set or another instruction set. In a second example the processing unit may be implemented as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC that causes the computing device to provide specific functionality. In a third example the processing unit causes the computing device to provide specific functionality by using an ASIC and by executing software instructions.

The computing device also comprises a video interface that enables the computing device to output video information to a display device . The display device may be a variety of different types of display devices. For instance the display device may be a cathode ray tube display an LCD display panel a plasma screen display panel a touch sensitive display panel a LED array or another type of display device.

In addition the computing device includes a non volatile storage device . The non volatile storage device is a computer readable storage medium that is capable of storing data and or instructions. The non volatile storage device may be a variety of different types of different non volatile storage devices. For example the non volatile storage device may be one or more hard disk drives magnetic tape drives CD ROM drives DVD ROM drives Blu Ray disc drives or other types of non volatile storage devices.

The computing device also includes an external component interface that enables the computing device to communicate with external components. As illustrated in the example of the external component interface communicates with an input device and an external storage device . In one implementation of the computing device the external component interface is a Universal Serial Bus USB interface. In other implementations of the computing device the computing device may include another type of interface that enables the computing device to communicate with input device and or output devices. For instance the computing device may include a PS 2 interface. The input device may be a variety of different types of devices including but not limited to keyboards mice trackballs stylus input devices touch pads touch sensitive display screens or other types of input devices. The external storage device may be a variety of different types of computer readable storage media including magnetic tape flash memory modules magnetic disk drives optical disc drives and other computer readable storage media.

In addition the computing device includes a network interface that enables the computing device to send data to and receive data from the network . The network interface may be a variety of different types of network interface. For example the network interface may be an Ethernet interface a token ring network interface a fiber optic network interface a wireless network interface e.g. WiFi WiMax etc. or another type of network interface.

The computing device also includes a communications medium that facilitates communication among the various components of the computing device . The communications medium may comprise one or more different types of communications media including but not limited to a PCI bus a PCI Express bus an accelerated graphics port AGP bus an Infiniband interconnect a serial Advanced Technology Attachment ATA interconnect a parallel ATA interconnect a Fiber Channel interconnect a USB bus a Small Computer System Interface SCSI interface or another type of communications medium.

Several computer readable data storage media are illustrated in the example of i.e. the memory the non volatile storage device and the external storage device . Together these computer readable storage media may constitute a single logical computer readable data storage medium. In some embodiments this single logical computer readable data storage medium stores instructions executable by the processing unit . Actions described in the above description may result from the execution of the instructions stored on this single logical computer readable data storage medium. Thus when this description says that a particular logical module performs a particular action such a statement may be interpreted to mean that the instructions of the logical module when executed by a processing unit such as the processing unit cause the computing device to perform the action.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

