---

title: Method for operating electronic device for RF signal transmission and electronic device for the same
abstract: A method for operating an electronic device for transmission of a radio frequency (RF) signal includes selecting output power of a power amplifier (PA) required upon transmission of a signal with a second frequency through an antenna, determining a first PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power using first information stored in a memory of the electronic device and second information regarding a PA operation voltage corresponding to first output power of the PA at the second frequency, supplying the determined first PA operation voltage to the PA, and supplying input power corresponding to the selected output power at the second frequency to the PA. Other various embodiments are possible.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09660672&OS=09660672&RS=09660672
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09660672
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20160812
---
The present application is related to and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Aug. 12 2015 and assigned Serial No. 10 2005 0114097 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to methods for operating electronic devices for RF signal transmission and electronic devices for the same.

A communication device performing wireless communication includes a radio frequency RF power amplifier for boosting up the power of transmit signals and many other integrated circuits ICs . The RF power amplifier PA in the communication device amplifies RF signals and allows the amplified RF signals to be transmitted through an antenna. As such power amplifiers may be used to amplify relatively low power RF signals.

Since the power amplifier and RF front end e.g. a switch or diplexer are an analog circuit they exhibit different characteristics per communication device. Thus different characteristics per analog circuit need to be calibrated to be consistent in order to adjust the characteristics for RF signal transmission. For example RF power required for RF signal transmission is subjected to calibration for RF signal transmission in such a manner that the gain of the transmitter and the gain of the power amplifier are adjusted and the output power corresponding to the input power is then measured.

In order to optimize the power consumed in the power amplifier for RF signal transmission the overall output power has been calibrated for each power mode of the power amplifier and the channel frequency . For example when the power amplifier supports three power modes average power tracking APT adjustment and calibration need to be carried out for the overall output power per channel for each of the three power modes in order to optimize the power consumed per channel in the power amplifier.

As such even output power and power modes not requiring calibration are subjected to calibration. Thus the time of calibration is prolonged. Further a gain table or input power values are required to be stored in the APT table and results of calibration which requires an excessive memory size to be secured.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

To address the above discussed deficiencies it is a primary object of the present disclosure to provide a method for operating an electronic device for RF signal transmission and electronic device for the same for addressing the foregoing or other issues.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure an electronic device comprises a housing an antenna included in the housing or formed by a portion of the housing a power amplifier PA electrically connected with the antenna a radio frequency RF transmission circuit electrically connected with the PA a processor electrically connected with the RF transmission circuit and the PA and a memory electrically connected with the processor wherein the memory includes first information regarding a PA operation voltage and input power corresponding to output power of the PA at a first frequency and second information regarding a PA operation voltage corresponding to first output power of the PA at a second frequency different from the first frequency and wherein the memory stores instructions executed to enable the processor to select output power of the PA required upon transmission of a signal with the second frequency through the antenna determine a first PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power using at least one of the first information and the second information perform control so that the determined first PA operation voltage is supplied to the PA and perform control so that input power corresponding to the selected output power at the second frequency is supplied to the PA.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a method for operating an electronic device for transmission of a radio frequency RF signal comprises selecting output power of a power amplifier PA required upon transmission of a signal with a second frequency through an antenna determining a first PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power using first information stored in a memory of the electronic device and second information regarding a PA operation voltage corresponding to first output power of the PA at the second frequency supplying the determined first PA operation voltage to the PA and supplying input power corresponding to the selected output power at the second frequency to the PA wherein the first information may be information regarding a PA operation voltage and input power corresponding to output power of the PA at a first frequency different from the second frequency.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure an electronic device may comprise a power amplifier PA amplifying and outputting a radio frequency RF signal a memory including first information regarding a PA operation voltage and input power corresponding to output power of the PA at a first frequency and second information regarding a PA operation voltage corresponding to first output power of the PA at a second frequency different from the first frequency and a processor determining a first PA operation voltage corresponding to output power selected for transmission of the RF signal using at least one of the first information and the second information performing control so that the first PA operation voltage is supplied to the PA and performing control so that input power corresponding to the selected output power is supplied to the PA.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a method for supplying power for transmitting a radio frequency RF signal from an electronic device may comprise determining a first PA operation voltage corresponding to selected output power for the RF signal transmission using at least one of first information and second information stored in a memory of the electronic device supplying the first PA operation voltage to the PA and supplying input power corresponding to the selected output power to the PA wherein the first information is information regarding a PA operation voltage and input power corresponding to output power of the PA at a first frequency and the second information is information regarding a PA operation voltage corresponding to first output power of the PA at a second frequency different from the first frequency.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device including the power amplifier may perform calibration only on one channel i.e. one frequency rather than performing calibration on the overall output power per channel and per power mode. A result of performing calibration on one channel may be used to determine an operation voltage and input power of the power amplifier to supply optimized power even upon signal transmission on other channels.

As such the calibration only on one frequency may reduce the time of calibration and eliminates the need for unnecessarily storing e.g. a gain table or input power values in the APT table and results of calibration. Thus the memory may efficiently be managed.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses exemplary embodiments of the disclosure.

Before undertaking the DETAILED DESCRIPTION below it may be advantageous to set forth definitions of certain words and phrases used throughout this patent document the terms include and comprise as well as derivatives thereof mean inclusion without limitation the term or is inclusive meaning and or the phrases associated with and associated therewith. as well as derivatives thereof may mean to include be included within interconnect with contain be contained within connect to or with couple to or with be communicable with cooperate with interleave juxtapose be proximate to be bound to or with have have a property of or the like and the term controller means any device system or part thereof that controls at least one operation such a device may be implemented in hardware firmware or software or some combination of at least two of the same. It should be noted that the functionality associated with any particular controller may be centralized or distributed whether locally or remotely. Definitions for certain words and phrases are provided throughout this patent document those of ordinary skill in the art should understand that in many if not most instances such definitions apply to prior as well as future uses of such defined words and phrases.

Throughout the drawings like reference numerals will be understood to refer to like parts components and structures.

Hereinafter embodiments of the present disclosure are described with reference to the accompanying drawings. However it should be appreciated that the present disclosure is not limited to the embodiments and all changes and or equivalents or replacements thereto also belong to the scope of the present disclosure. The same or similar reference denotations may be used to refer to the same or similar elements throughout the specification and the drawings.

As used herein the terms have may have include or may include a feature e.g. a number function operation or a component such as a part indicate the existence of the feature and do not exclude the existence of other features.

As used herein the terms A or B at least one of A and or B or one or more of A and or B may include all possible combinations of A and B. For example A or B at least one of A and B at least one of A or B may indicate all of 1 including at least one A 2 including at least one B or 3 including at least one A and at least one B.

As used herein the terms first and second may modify various components regardless of importance and or order and are used to distinguish a component from another without limiting the components. For example a first user device and a second user device may indicate different user devices from each other regardless of the order or importance of the devices. For example a first component may be denoted a second component and vice versa without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

It will be understood that when an element e.g. a first element is referred to as being operatively or communicatively coupled with to or connected with to another element e.g. a second element it can be coupled or connected with to the other element directly or via a third element. In contrast it will be understood that when an element e.g. a first element is referred to as being directly coupled with to or directly connected with to another element e.g. a second element no other element e.g. a third element intervenes between the element and the other element.

As used herein the terms configured or set to may be interchangeably used with the terms suitable for having the capacity to designed to adapted to made to or capable of depending on circumstances. The term configured or set to does not essentially mean specifically designed in hardware to. Rather the term configured to may mean that a device can perform an operation together with another device or parts. For example the term processor configured or set to perform A B and C may mean a generic purpose processor e.g. a CPU or application processor that may perform the operations by executing one or more software programs stored in a memory device or a dedicated processor e.g. an embedded processor for performing the operations.

The terms as used herein are provided merely to describe some embodiments thereof but not to limit the scope of other embodiments of the present disclosure. It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which the embodiments of the present disclosure belong. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein. In some cases the terms defined herein may be interpreted to exclude embodiments of the present disclosure.

For example examples of the electronic device according to embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of a smartphone a tablet personal computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop computer a netbook computer a workstation a personal digital assistant PDA a portable multimedia player PMP an MP3 player a mobile medical device a camera or a wearable device. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the wearable device may include at least one of an accessory type device e.g. a watch a ring a bracelet an anklet a necklace glasses contact lenses or a head mounted device HMD a fabric or clothes integrated device e.g. electronic clothes a body attaching type device e.g. a skin pad or tattoo or a body implantable device e.g. an implantable circuit . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may be a home appliance. Examples of the home appliance may include at least one of a television a digital video disk DVD player an audio player a refrigerator an air conditioner a cleaner an oven a microwave oven a washer a drier an air cleaner a set top box a home automation control panel a security control panel a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV a gaming console Xbox PlayStation an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder or an electronic picture frame.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure examples of the electronic device may include at least one of various medical devices e.g. diverse portable medical measuring devices a blood sugar measuring device a heartbeat measuring device or a body temperature measuring device a magnetic resource angiography MRA device a magnetic resource imaging MRI device a computed tomography CT device an imaging device or an ultrasonic device a navigation device a global navigation satellite system GNSS receiver an event data recorder EDR a flight data recorder FDR an automotive infotainment device an sailing electronic device e.g. a sailing navigation device or a gyro compass avionics security devices vehicular head units industrial or home robots automatic teller s machines ATMs point of sales POS devices or Internet of Things devices e.g. a bulb various sensors an electric or gas meter a sprinkler a fire alarm a thermostat a street light a toaster fitness equipment a hot water tank a heater or a boiler .

According to various embodiments of the disclosure examples of the electronic device may at least one of part of a piece of furniture or building structure an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector or various measurement devices e.g. devices for measuring water electricity gas or electromagnetic waves . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may be one or a combination of the above listed devices. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may be a flexible electronic device. The electronic device disclosed herein is not limited to the above listed devices and may include new electronic devices depending on the development of technology.

Hereinafter electronic devices are described with reference to the accompanying drawings according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. As used herein the term user may denote a human or another device e.g. an artificial intelligent electronic device using the electronic device.

Referring to according to an embodiment of the present disclosure an electronic device is included in a network environment . The electronic device may include a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display and a communication interface . In some embodiments the electronic device may exclude at least one of the components or may add another component.

The bus may include a circuit for connecting the components to with one another and transferring communications e.g. control messages and or data between the components.

The processor may include one or more of a central processing unit CPU an application processor AP or a communication processor CP . The processor may perform control on at least one of the other components of the electronic device and or perform an operation or data processing relating to communication.

The memory may include a volatile and or non volatile memory. For example the memory may store commands or data related to at least one other component of the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the memory may store software and or a program . The program may include e.g. a kernel middleware an application programming interface API and or an application program or application . At least a portion of the kernel middleware or API may be denoted an operating system OS .

For example the kernel may control or manage system resources e.g. the bus processor or a memory used to perform operations or functions implemented in other programs e.g. the middleware API or application program . The kernel may provide an interface that allows the middleware the API or the application to access the individual components of the electronic device to control or manage the system resources.

The middleware may function as a relay to allow the API or the application to communicate data with the kernel for example.

Further the middleware may process one or more task requests received from the application program in order of priority. For example the middleware may assign at least one of application programs with priority of using system resources e.g. the bus processor or memory of at least one electronic device . For example the middleware may perform scheduling or load balancing on the one or more task requests by processing the one or more task requests according to the priority assigned to the at least one application program .

The API is an interface allowing the application to control functions provided from the kernel or the middleware . For example the API may include at least one interface or function e.g. a command for filing control window control image processing or text control.

The input output interface may serve as an interface that may e.g. transfer commands or data input from a user or other external devices to other component s of the electronic device . Further the input output interface may output commands or data received from other component s of the electronic device to the user or the other external device.

The display may include e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic light emitting diode OLED display or a microelectromechanical systems MEMS display or an electronic paper display. The display may display e.g. various contents e.g. text images videos icons or symbols to the user. The display may include a touchscreen and may receive e.g. a touch gesture proximity or hovering input using an electronic pen or a body portion of the user.

For example the communication interface may set up communication between the electronic device and an external electronic device e.g. a first electronic device a second electronic device or a server . For example the communication interface may be connected with the network through wireless or wired communication to communicate with the external electronic device.

The wireless communication may be a cellular communication protocol and may use at least one of e.g. long term evolution LTE LTE advanced LTE A code division multiple access CDMA wideband CDMA WCDMA universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS wireless broadband WiBro or global system for mobile communications GSM . Further the wireless communication may include e.g. wireless communication . The wireless communication may include at least one of wireless fidelity Wi Fi Bluetooth near field communication NFC or global navigation satellite system GNSS . The GNSS may include at least one of e.g. global positioning system GPS global navigation satellite system Glonass Beidou navigation satellite system hereinafter Beidou or Galileo or the European global satellite based navigation system. Hereinafter the terms GPS and the GNSS may be interchangeably used herein. The wired connection may include at least one of e.g. universal serial bus USB high definition multimedia interface HDMI recommended standard RS 232 or plain old telephone service POTS . The network may include at least one of communication networks e.g. a computer network e.g. local area network LAN or wide area network WAN Internet or a telephone network.

The first and second external electronic devices and each may be a device of the same or a different type from the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the server may include a group of one or more servers. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure all or some of operations executed on the electronic device may be executed on another or multiple other electronic devices e.g. the electronic devices and or server . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the electronic device should perform some function or service automatically or at a request the electronic device instead of executing the function or service on its own or additionally may request another device e.g. electronic devices and or server to perform at least some functions associated therewith. The other electronic device e.g. electronic devices and or server may execute the requested functions or additional functions and transfer a result of the execution to the electronic device . The electronic device may provide a requested function or service by processing the received result as it is or additionally. To that end a cloud computing distributed computing or client server computing technique may be used for example.

The processor may process at least part of information obtained from other elements e.g. at least one of the memory the input output interface or the communication interface and may use the same in various manners. For example the processor may control at least some functions of the electronic device so that the electronic device may interwork with another electronic device e.g. the electronic device or or the server . The processor may be integrated with the communication interface . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least one configuration of the processor may be included in the server and may be supported for at least one operation implemented on the processor from the server .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the memory may include instructions enabling the processor to operate. For example the memory may include instructions enabling the processor to control other components of the electronic device and to interwork with other electronic devices and or the server . The processor may control other components of the electronic device and interwork with the other electronic devices and or the server based on the instructions stored in the memory . Hereinafter operations of the electronic device are described based on each component of the electronic device . The instructions enabling the components to operate may be included in the memory .

The above described other components e.g. the bus processor memory input output interface display and communication interface may be included in the housing of the electronic device . Further although not shown an antenna for RF signal communication may be included in the housing or may be formed by a portion of the housing.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may include a power amplifier PA amplifying and outputting the power of RF signals for RF signal transmission. Hereinafter input power may refer to the input power of a RF signal input to the PA and output power may refer to the output power of a RF signal output from the PA.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may include a radio frequency RF transmission circuit converting RF signals generated in the processor into RF signals. For example the RF transmission circuit may receive signals generated from a communication processor CP up modulate the received signals into RF signals and transmit the RF signals to the PA.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the memory may include information regarding the control of the PA. The information regarding the control of the PA may be generated based on a result of the calibration on the PA. The PA control related information may be generated based on a result of performing calibration at a frequency corresponding to a first channel among a plurality of communication channels available in the communication interface .

For example the memory may include first information regarding a PA operation voltage and input power corresponding to an output power of the PA at the first frequency. The first information may adjust the index of the input power so that the input power at the first frequency may be varied and calibrated by a preset size or level and may then correspond to the output power of the PA. Further a PA operation voltage may be set allowing the power consumed in the PA to be optimized corresponding to the output power of the PA. The first information regarding the PA operation voltage and input power corresponding to the output power of the PA may be generated through such process and may be stored in the memory .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure without performing calibration at the frequencies respectively corresponding to the plurality of communication channels available in the communication interface a result of performing calibration at the first frequency may be used to determine the PA operation voltage and input power corresponding to the output power for RF signal transmission at other frequencies than the first frequency.

To that end the memory may include second information regarding a PA operation voltage corresponding to the first output power of the PA at a second frequency different from the first frequency. Described below is a method for determining a PA operation voltage and input power at the second frequency different from the first frequency using a result of performing calibration at the first frequency. However this is merely for illustration purposes the present disclosure is not limited thereto and the second frequency may be all other frequencies than the first frequency.

Calibration may also be conducted at the second frequency corresponding to a particular first output power level among all output power levels outputtable from the PA and the second information regarding the PA operation voltage corresponding to the first output power may be generated. The second information may be generated as the PA operation voltage itself corresponding to the first output power at the second frequency or may be generated as a PA operation voltage adjusted with respect to the PA operation voltage corresponding to the first output power of the first information.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor may select the output power of the PA required upon RF signal transmission through the antenna. The processor may select the output power of the PA based on the characteristics of the network connected with the electronic device . For example the processor may receive information such as power or channel required to transmit RF signals from a base station or external electronic device e.g. the electronic device connectable with the electronic device and may select the output power of the PA based on information necessary for the RF signal transmission.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor may determine the first PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power using at least one of the first information and the second information. The processor may perform control so that the determined first PA operation voltage is supplied to the PA. Accordingly the processor may adjust the PA operation voltage to supply the power optimized for the PA to output the selected output power.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the frequency for RF signal transmission is the first frequency the processor may determine that the first PA operation voltage is the PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power included in the first information. As described above since calibration is performed at the first frequency for all power levels outputtable from the PA the input power may be determined using the first information for the result of the calibration. As such since it is determined according to the frequency used upon RF signal transmission whether the first information stored in the memory may be used as it is a process for identifying the frequency used upon RF signal transmission may be performed prior to determining the first PA operation voltage.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor may determine whether the selected output power belongs to a preset range of output power. When the frequency for the RF signal transmission is the second frequency the processor may determine whether the selected output power belongs to the preset output power range. As described above since calibration is performed at the second frequency only for a particular output power level an input power level corresponding to an output power level selected in a scheme different form the first frequency may be determined.

When the selected output power belongs to the preset output power range the processor may determine the first PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power using at least one of the first information and the second information.

For the output power included in the preset output power range the input power corresponding to the selected output power may be determined using at least one of the first information and the second information.

Even when the selected output power does not belong to the preset output power range the input power corresponding to the selected output power may be determined based on at least one of the first information and the second information. The preset output power range may be set based on the characteristics of the PA and a plurality of power modes of the PA.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the selected output power is the same as the first output power the processor may determine the PA operation voltage corresponding to the first output power included in the second information as the first PA operation voltage. As described above calibration may also be performed at the second frequency for the first output power and the second information may be generated based on the calibration. Thus when the selected output power is the same as the first output power the processor may determine the first PA operation voltage using the second information including a result of the calibration.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the selected output power is different from the first output power the processor may compute a PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power included in the first information and a PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power using the second information. The processor may determine the computed PA operation voltage as the first operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power.

When the selected output power is different from the first output power the processor may not use the result of calibration as it is and may compute the PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power using the result of the calibration. The processor may compute the PA operation voltage using the characteristic that although the PA operation voltage corresponding to each PA output power level but the difference between the PA operation voltages respectively corresponding to the frequencies per output power of the PA is the same or similar.

For example the processor may compare the selected output power with the first output power and may compute the PA operation voltage in different manners depending on comparison results. According to a general PA characteristic a relatively high PA operation voltage may apply to a high power level and a relatively low PA operation voltage may apply to a low power level. Thus when the PA operation voltage is calculated with respect to the first output power that has undergone the calibration more specifically in order to more exactly compute the PA operation voltage the PA operation voltage may be computed in different ways depending on the comparison results.

For example when the selected output power is larger than the first power level the processor may compute the PA operation voltage using a preset first constant and when the selected output power is smaller than the first power level the processor may compute the PA operation voltage using a preset second constant. A higher compensation may be required to reflect the PA characteristic for higher output power relative to the first output power and a lower compensation may be required to reflect the PA characteristic for lower output power relative to the first output power. Accordingly different constants may be applied which represent compensations with respect to the first output power. The first constant and the second constant may be previously set when performing calibration based on the PA characteristic.

Further a scheme for computing the PA operation voltage e.g. an equation for computing the PA operation voltage using at least one of the first information and the second information may be stored in the memory . Thus data or codes stored in the memory may be simplified without the need of storing all the results of performing calibration per frequency. A specific method and equation for computing the PA operation voltage are described below.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor may identify a first power mode corresponding to the selected output power among a plurality of power modes of the PA as set based on the PA characteristic.

The PA may operate at one of the plurality of power modes according to the output power of the PA required upon RF signal transmission. At least one or more output power levels may correspond to each of the plurality of power modes depending on the PA characteristic. The processor may select output power required upon RF signal transmission and may identify a power mode corresponding to the selected output power among the plurality of power modes. The processor may perform control so that the PA may operate in the identified power mode.

The memory may store the first information and the second information per power mode. Since information on the variation rate between input power and output power differs per power mode the first information and the second information may also differ per power mode. Accordingly the memory may store the first information and the second information per power mode.

The processor may determine the first PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power using at least one of the first information and the second information corresponding to the identified first power mode. As described above since the first information and the second information are different per power mode the processor after identifying the first power mode corresponding to the selected output power may determine the first PA operation voltage using at least one of the first information and second information corresponding to the first power mode.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor may perform control so that the input power corresponding to the selected output power at the second frequency may be supplied to the PA. The processor may determine the input power using the difference for the input power corresponding to the same output power at the first frequency and second frequency.

The memory may further store the third information regarding the input power corresponding to the second output power of the PA adjusted based on the first information at the second frequency. The third information may also be stored per power mode of the PA similarly to the first information and second information. The first output power and the second output power may be the same or differ from each other.

The third information may be used to determine the input power corresponding to the output power at the second frequency that has not undergone calibration. The third information may be used to adjust an error for the input power corresponding to the same output power between frequencies.

For example the processor may obtain the third information by comparing the input power at the second frequency corresponding to particular second output power of the PA with the input power at the first frequency included in the first information. The processor may determine the input power corresponding to output power different from the second output power at the second frequency using the third information.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure an electronic device comprises a housing an antenna included in the housing or formed by a portion of the housing a power amplifier PA electrically connected with the antenna a radio frequency RF transmission circuit electrically connected with the PA a processor electrically connected with the RF transmission circuit and the PA and a memory electrically connected with the processor wherein the memory may include first information regarding a PA operation voltage and input power corresponding to output power of the PA at a first frequency and second information regarding a PA operation voltage corresponding to first output power of the PA at a second frequency different from the first frequency and wherein the memory may store instructions executed to enable the processor to select output power of the PA required upon transmission of a signal with the second frequency through the antenna determine a first PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power of the PA using at least one of the first information and the second information perform control so that the determined first PA operation voltage is supplied to the PA and perform control so that input power corresponding to the selected output power of the PA at the second frequency is supplied to the PA.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the memory may store instructions enabling the processor to determine whether the selected output power of the PA belongs to a preset output power range and when the selected output power of the PA belongs to the preset output power range determine the first PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power of the PA using the second information.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the memory may store instructions enabling the processor to when the selected output power of the PA is substantially the same as the first output power determine that a PA operation voltage corresponding to the first output power included in the second information is the first PA operation voltage.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the memory may store instructions enabling the processor to when the selected output power is different from the first output power compute a PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power included in the first information and a PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power using the second information and determine that the computed PA operation voltage is the first PA operation voltage.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the memory may store instructions enabling the processor to compute the PA operation voltage using a preset first constant F1 when the selected output power is larger than the first output power.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the memory may store instructions enabling the processor to compute the PA operation voltage using a preset second constant F2 when the selected output power is smaller than the first output power.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the memory may store the first information and the second information for each of a plurality of power modes based on a characteristic of the PA.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the memory may store instructions enabling the processor to identify a first power mode corresponding to the selected output power among the plurality of power modes and determine the first PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power using at least one of the first information and the second information corresponding to the first power mode.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the memory may further include third information regarding input power corresponding to second output power of the PA adjusted based on the first information at the second frequency.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the memory may store instructions enabling the processor to perform control so that input power corresponding to the selected output power determined using the third information is supplied to the PA.

The program module may include e.g. a kernel middleware an application programming interface API and or an application . At least a part of the program module may be preloaded on the electronic device or may be downloaded from an external electronic device e.g. the electronic devices and or server .

The kernel e.g. the kernel may include e.g. a system resource manager and or a device driver . The system resource manager may perform control allocation or recovery of system resources. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the system resource manager may include a process managing unit a memory managing unit or a file system managing unit. The device driver may include e.g. a display driver a camera driver a Bluetooth driver a shared memory driver a USB driver a keypad driver a Wi Fi driver an audio driver or an inter process communication IPC driver.

The middleware may provide various functions to the application through the API so that the application may efficiently use limited system resources in the electronic device or provide functions jointly required by applications . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the middleware e.g. the middleware may include at least one of a runtime library an application manager a window manager a multimedia manager a resource manager a power manager a database manager a package manager a connectivity manager a notification manager a location manager a graphic manager or a security manager .

The runtime library may include a library module used by a compiler in order to add a new function through a programming language while e.g. the application is being executed. The runtime library may perform input output management memory management or operation on arithmetic functions.

The application manager may manage the life cycle of at least one application of e.g. the applications . The window manager may manage GUI resources used on the screen. The multimedia manager may grasp formats necessary to play various media files and use a codec appropriate for a format to perform encoding or decoding on media files. The resource manager may manage resources such as source code of at least one of the applications memory or storage space.

The power manager may operate together with e.g. a basic input output system BIOS to manage battery or power and provide power information necessary for operating the electronic device. The database manager may generate search or vary a database to be used in at least one of the applications . The package manager may manage installation or update of an application that is distributed in the form of a package file.

The connectivity manager may manage wireless connectivity such as e.g. Wi Fi or Bluetooth. The notification manager may display or notify an event such as a coming message appointment or proximity notification of the user without interfering with the user. The location manager may manage locational information on the electronic device. The graphic manager may manage graphic effects to be offered to the user and their related user interface. The security manager may provide various security functions necessary for system security or user authentication. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when the electronic device e.g. the electronic device has telephony capability the middleware may further include a telephony manager for managing voice call or video call functions of the electronic device.

The middleware may include a middleware module forming a combination of various functions of the above described components. The middleware may provide a specified module per type of the operating system in order to provide a differentiated function. Further the middleware may dynamically omit some existing components or add new components.

The API e.g. the API may be a set of e.g. API programming functions and may have different configurations depending on operating systems. For example in the case of Android or iOS one API set may be provided per platform and in the case of Tizen two or more API sets may be offered per platform.

The application e.g. the application programs may include one or more applications that may provide functions such as e.g. a home a dialer a short message service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS an instant message IM a browser a camera an alarm a contact a voice dial an email a calendar a media player an album or a clock a health care e.g. measuring the degree of workout or blood sugar or provision of environmental information e.g. provision of air pressure moisture or temperature information .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the application may include an application hereinafter information exchanging application for convenience supporting information exchange between the electronic device e.g. the electronic device and an external electronic device e.g. the electronic devices and . Examples of the information exchange application may include but is not limited to a notification relay application for transferring specific information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification relay application may include a function for relaying notification information generated from other applications of the electronic device e.g. the SMS MMS application email application health care application or environmental information application to the external electronic device e.g. the electronic devices and . Further the notification relay application may receive notification information from e.g. the external electronic device and may provide the received notification information to the user.

The device management application may perform at least some functions of the external electronic device e.g. the electronic device or communicating with the electronic device for example turning on off the external electronic device or some components of the external electronic device or control of brightness or resolution of the display and the device management application may manage e.g. install delete or update an application operating in the external electronic device or a service e.g. call service or message service provided from the external electronic device.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the application may include an application e.g. a health care application of a mobile medical device designated according to an attribute of the external electronic device e.g. the electronic devices and . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the application may include an application received from the external electronic device e.g. the server or electronic devices and . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the application may include a preloaded application or a third party application downloadable from a server. The names of the components of the program module according to the shown embodiment may be varied depending on the type of operating system.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least a part of the program module may be implemented in software firmware hardware or in a combination of two or more thereof. At least a part of the programming module may be implemented e.g. executed by e.g. a processor e.g. the processor . At least a part of the program module may include e.g. a module program routine set of instructions process or the like for performing one or more functions.

The antenna performs RF signal communication. The antenna may be included in a housing or may be formed by a portion of the housing. The PA may be electrically connected with the antenna through the switch .

The RF transmission circuit may be electrically connected with the processor and the PA . The RF transmission circuit may convert signals generated from the processor into RF signals and may transmit the RF signals to the PA .

The voltage adjuster may provide a PA operation voltage for the operation of the PA . The voltage adjuster may supply a PA operation voltage determined by the processor to the PA .

The processor may select the output power of the PA required upon transmission of a RF signal through the antenna . The processor may determine input power and a first PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power using information stored in the memory . A method for determining the input power and the first PA operation voltage using the information stored in the memory by the processor is described below.

The processor may control the voltage adjuster so that the determined first PA operation voltage is supplied to the PA and may perform control so that the determined input power is supplied to the PA. Since the output power of the PA is determined by the gain of the PA the RF transmission circuit and the processor the processor may control each component in the electronic device so that the determined input power of the PA is supplied to the PA . For example the electronic device may adjust code values for controlling each component so that the determined input power of the PA is supplied to the PA .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the PA may amplify and output the power of a RF signal for RF signal transmission. For the PA to amplify the power of RF signal a constant PA operation voltage may be supplied to the PA. As such a power consumption may occur as the PA operates. When the electronic device including the PA is operated by a capacity limited power source such as a battery the power consumption of the PA is required to be reduced.

In order to reduce the power consumption of the PA reducing the PA operation voltage supplied to the PA may lead to a decrease in the power consumption in the PA. However the PA operation voltage needs to be adjusted so that the power consumed in the PA may be adjusted within a range not influencing the operation of the PA. Accordingly a PA operation voltage may be set allowing the power consumption to be optimized corresponding to the output power of the PA.

It is assumed in connection with that when Vcc is supplied to the PA as the PA operation voltage a RF signal with the maximum first power W may be output through the PA and when Vcc lower than Vcc is supplied to the PA as the PA operation voltage a RF signal with the maximum second power W may be output through the PA. In such case it is assumed that the maximum power of the RF signal output through the PA is smaller than the second power W and Vcc is currently set to the PA operation voltage.

In this case the RF signal may be output through the PA even when supplied to the PA because Vcc is set to the PA operation voltage. Nonetheless when Vcc is set to the PA operation voltage and is supplied to the PA the PA may cause unnecessary power consumption. Accordingly the PA operation voltage needs to be reset to Vcc which is lower than Vcc as currently set in order to reduce the power consumption in the course of outputting the RF signal .

As such different PA operation voltages may be set to reduce the power consumed in the PA depending on output power levels necessary for transmission of the RF signal during the course of performing calibration on the PA. Such PA operation voltages may be set based on the characteristics of the PA per power mode. Thus the power consumed in the PA may be reduced.

According to the comparison example calibration on the PA is performed while varying the input power set for each frequency and power mode by the increment of one code e.g. 1 dBm .

As shown in calibration may be performed for the first frequency in such a manner that all the input power levels respectively set for a first power mode second power mode and third power mode corresponding to the first frequency may be varied by the one code increment while measuring the output power levels.

Likewise calibration may also be performed for the second frequency in such a manner that all the input power levels respectively set for a first power mode second power mode and third power mode corresponding to the second frequency may be varied by the one code increment while measuring the output power levels. Calibration may also be performed for the third frequency in such a manner that all the input power levels respectively set for a first power mode second power mode and third power mode corresponding to the third frequency may be varied by the one code increment while measuring the output power levels.

When such process is performed for all the frequencies and per power mode calibration would take much time and require unnecessary storage of the APT table and gain table for the result of the calibration and input power levels causing the need for an excessive memory size.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure in order to reduce the time of calibration calibration may be performed at a first frequency corresponding to one of a plurality of channels available for the electronic device . Further the electronic device may perform additional calibration on particular output power in order to determine the input power and PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power at a second frequency different from the first frequency.

For example the electronic device may obtain first information regarding the PA operation voltage and input power corresponding to the output power of the PA by performing calibration at the first frequency.

Further the electronic device may obtain second information regarding the PA operation voltage corresponding to the first output power of the PA at the second frequency different from the first frequency. The second information may contain information regarding the PA operation voltage for outputting the first output power through the PA at the second frequency. The second information may be generated with respect to the PA operation voltage corresponding to the first output power included in the first information.

Further the electronic device may obtain third information regarding input power corresponding to the second output power of the PA at the second frequency. The third information may be used to adjust an error for the input power corresponding to the second output power which is the same output power between the frequencies. For example the electronic device may obtain the third information by comparing the input power at the second frequency corresponding to the particular second output power of the PA with the input power at the first frequency included in the first information. Similar to the second information the third information may also be generated with respect to the input power corresponding to the second output power included in the first information.

The first output power for obtaining the second information and the second output power for obtaining the third information may be set to be the same or different from each other. Since the first output power and the second output power are for identifying and adjusting the relation between frequencies for the PA operation voltage and input power they may be set to be the same or different from each other.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure each of the first information the second information and the third information may be stored in the memory for each of the plurality of power modes of the PA set based on the characteristics of the PA. The plurality of power modes may have the same information on the variation rate between the input power and the output power even though having different gains between input power and output power depending on PA operation voltages. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the first information the second information and the third information may differ for each of the plurality of power modes. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the memory may store the first information the second information and the third information for each of the plurality of power modes.

As shown in the PA may operate at one of the first power mode the second power mode and the third power mode . Since each power mode has different variation rate information the electronic device may perform calibration per power mode for the first frequency. Further the electronic device may obtain the second information and the third information representing the relation with the second frequency for the input power and the PA operation voltage per power mode.

For example the electronic device may obtain the third information using the input power corresponding to the first output power for the first power mode . Further the electronic device may obtain the second information using the PA operation voltage corresponding to the first output power. Likewise the electronic device may obtain the third information using the input power corresponding to the second output power for the third power mode . Further the electronic device may obtain the second information using the PA operation voltage corresponding to the first output power. Further the calibration for obtaining the second information and the third information might not be performed for a particular power mode e.g. the second power mode by the user s settings.

As such the second information and the third information obtained per power mode may be stored per power mode in the memory . Accordingly when the output power for RF signal transmission is selected the electronic device may first identify the power mode corresponding to the selected output power prior to determining the input power and the PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power.

A method for obtaining the second information and the third information per power mode for a plurality of frequencies with respect to the first frequency has been described in connection with .

As described supra the electronic device may obtain the second information and the third information per power mode for a plurality of frequencies e.g. the second and third frequencies different from the first frequency with respect to the first frequency.

Hereinafter three power modes are assumed to be set for each frequency. For example a first power mode second power mode and third power mode may be set for the first frequency a first power mode second power mode and third power mode may be set for the second frequency and a first power mode second power mode and third power mode may be set for the third frequency.

The electronic device may generate the third information that is information regarding the input power levels and corresponding to the first output power per frequency for the first power mode and may generate the second information that is information regarding the PA operation voltage corresponding to the first output power. Each of the PA operation voltage and input power levels and at the second frequency and the third frequency may be obtained with respect to the input power level and the PA operation voltage at the first frequency. For example when the PA operation voltage corresponding to the first output power at the second frequency may be obtained by adding a first compensation value to the PA operation voltage corresponding to the first output power at the first frequency the second information may contain information on the first compensation value. Accordingly the first information and the second information both may be used to determine the PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power at the second frequency.

Likewise the electronic device may generate the second information and third information that are information on the input power levels and and the PA operation voltage corresponding to the first frequency per frequency for the third power mode. Each of the PA operation voltage and input power levels and at the second frequency and the third frequency may be obtained with respect to the input power level and the PA operation voltage at the first frequency.

Further similar to the calibration for generating the second information and the third information might not be performed for a particular power mode e.g. the second power modes and by the user s settings.

As shown in the electronic device may obtain second information and third information for a preset output power range. In order to further reduce the time of calibration and the amount of data stored in the memory an output power range primarily used for RF signal transmission may be set and calibration may be performed to obtain the second information and the third information only within the set range.

As shown in the electronic device may set a range having the maximum output power and the minimum output power and set first output power and second output power for obtaining the second information and the third information within the set range. The electronic device may obtain the second information and the third information using the first output power and the second output power within the range.

As such when the second information and the third information are obtained for the preset range the electronic device may first determine whether the selected output power belongs to the preset range prior to determining the input power and PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power.

Further although not shown a plurality of preset ranges may be present. For example when there is a plurality of preset ranges different output power levels for obtaining the second information and the third information may be set per range. Accordingly the second information and the third information may differ per range and the second information and the third information may be stored corresponding to each range.

Further the preset ranges may be set to be different for each power mode . Thus the electronic device may identify the power mode corresponding to the selected output power and determine whether the selected output power belongs to the ranges set to be different per power mode.

As shown in the electronic device may adjust the preset range at the first frequency to fit each frequency as well as the input power and the PA operation voltage corresponding to the first output power.

For example the electronic device may obtain input power levels and and the PA operation voltage corresponding to the first output power at each of the second frequency and the third frequency through calibration. The electronic device may compare the input power level and PA operation voltage corresponding to the first output power contained in the first information with the PA operation voltage and input power levels and corresponding to the first output power at each of the second frequency and the third frequency.

The electronic device may adjust the preset range to fit each frequency based on the difference in the PA operation voltage and input power between the frequencies as obtained through the comparison. For example the maximum output power and the minimum output power within the preset range at the first frequency may be adjusted to the maximum output power and the minimum output power at the second frequency and the maximum output power and the minimum output power at the third frequency.

Described in connection with is a method for the electronic device to compute a first PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power at the second frequency fand third frequency fdifferent from the first frequency fusing at least one of the first information and the second information.

In the first curve the second curve and the third curve respectively correspond to the first output power second output power and third output power and the voltage marked at each point may represent the PA operation voltage supplied to the PA to output the first output power second output power and third output power at each frequency.

For example Vmay be the PA operation voltage supplied to the PA to output the second output power at the second frequency f and Vmay be the PA operation voltage supplied to the PA to output the second output power at the third frequency f.

Hereinafter it is assumed that the first output power is the output power used to generate the second information. Accordingly the second information may contain information regarding the PA operation voltage Vat the second frequency fcorresponding to the first output power and the PA operation voltage Vat the third frequency fcorresponding to the first output power which are PA operation voltages at the frequencies.

Further calibration may be performed for the first frequency f so that the first information regarding the PA operation voltage and input power corresponding to the output power of the PA may be stored in the memory . Thus the first information may include information regarding PA operation voltages V V and Vat the first frequency fcorresponding to each of the first output power second output power and third output power. Therefore when the RF signal is communicated at the first frequency f the electronic device may determine the input power corresponding to the selected output power using the PA operation voltage corresponding to each output power level contained in the first information.

The electronic device may compare the selected output power with the first output power to determine the PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power. When as a result of the comparison the selected output power is the same as the first output power the electronic device may determine the PA operation voltage corresponding to the first output power included in the second information as the first PA operation voltage.

For example when the selected output power is the same as the first output power and the RF signal is transmitted at the second frequency f the electronic device may determine that the first PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power is the PA operation voltage Vat the second frequency fcorresponding to the first output power included in the second information.

When the selected output power is different from the first output power the electronic device may compute a PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power included in the first information and a PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power using the second information. The electronic device may determine the computed PA operation voltage as the first operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power.

When the selected output power is different from the first output power the electronic device may not use the result of calibration as it is and may compute the PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power using the result of the calibration. For example the PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power may be computed by Equation 1.

Here Vis the PA operation voltage at the first frequency fcorresponding to the calibration selected output power Vthe PA operation voltage at a frequency different from the first frequency fcorresponding to the selected output power Vthe PA operation voltage at a frequency different from the first frequency fcorresponding to the first output power and Vthe PA operation voltage at a frequency different from the first frequency fcorresponding to the selected output power. F is a preset constant and may be set to differ depending on the result of comparison between the selected output power and the first output power.

According to a general PA characteristic a relatively high PA operation voltage may apply to a high power level and a relatively low PA operation voltage may apply to a low power level. Thus when the PA operation voltage is calculated with respect to the first output power that has undergone the calibration more specifically in order to more exactly compute the PA operation voltage different constants may be used in the course of computing the PA operation voltage depending on comparison results.

For example when the selected output power corresponds to the second output power and the RF signal is transmitted at the second frequency the electronic device may compute the PA operation voltage using a preset first constant F1 as shown in Equation 2 because the selected output power which is the second output power is larger than the first output power.

Here Vis the PA operation voltage at the first frequency fcorresponding to the first output power Vthe PA operation voltage at the first frequency fcorresponding to the selected output power Vthe adjusted PA operation voltage at the second frequency fcorresponding to the first output power and Vthe PA operation voltage at the second frequency fcorresponding to the selected output power.

By contrast when the selected output power corresponds to the third output power and the RF signal is transmitted at the second frequency the electronic device may compute the PA operation voltage using a preset second constant F2 as shown in Equation 3 because the selected output power which is the third output power is smaller than the first output power.

Here Vis the PA operation voltage at the first frequency fcorresponding to the first output power Vthe PA operation voltage at the first frequency fcorresponding to the selected output power Vthe adjusted PA operation voltage at the second frequency fcorresponding to the first output power and Vthe PA operation voltage at the second frequency fcorresponding to the selected output power.

As such the electronic device may compute the PA operation voltage at the second frequency fand third frequency fcorresponding to the output power not subjected to calibration using the first information and the second information.

Further a scheme for computing the PA operation voltage e.g. an equation for computing the PA operation voltage using at least one of the first information and the second information may be stored in the memory . The electronic device may compute the PA operation voltage at the second frequency f and third frequency f corresponding to the output power not subjected to calibration using the stored equation as described above. Thus data or codes stored in the memory may be simplified without the need of storing all the results of performing calibration per frequency and output mode.

In operation the electronic device may select the output power of the PA required upon RF signal transmission through the antenna. The electronic device may select the output power of the PA based on the characteristics of the network connected with the electronic device .

In operation the electronic device may determine the first PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power using at least one of the first information and the second information stored in the memory . The electronic device may determine the PA operation voltage corresponding to the output power not calibrated at the second frequency using the information stored in the memory. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure data or codes stored in the memory may be simplified since all the results of performing calibration need not be stored per frequency.

In operation the electronic device may supply the determined first PA operation voltage to the PA. Accordingly the electronic device may adjust the PA operation voltage to supply the power optimized for the PA to output the selected output power.

In operation the electronic device may perform control so that the input power corresponding to the selected output power at the second frequency may be supplied to the PA. The electronic device may determine the input power corresponding to the selected output power using the third information and perform control so that the determined input power is supplied to the PA.

In operation the electronic device may determine whether the selected output power belongs to a preset range of output power. The preset output power range may be set based on the characteristics of the PA and a plurality of power modes of the PA. In order to further reduce the time of calibration and the amount of data stored in the memory an output power range primarily used for RF signal transmission may be set and calibration may be performed to obtain the second information and the third information only within the set range.

In operation when the selected output power belongs to the preset output power range the electronic device may determine the first PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power using at least one of the first information and the second information.

Further the first information second information and third information stored in the memory may differ for each of a plurality of power modes of the PA. Accordingly in operation the first power mode corresponding to the selected output power among the plurality of power modes may be identified before determining the first PA operation voltage. The electronic device may determine the input power and PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power using the information corresponding to the identified first power mode.

In operation the electronic device may determine whether the selected output power for RF signal transmission is the same as the first output power. Since the first output power has been calibrated at each frequency the electronic device may determine whether the information previously stored in the memory may directly be used by determining whether the selected output power is the same as the first output power.

In operation when the selected output power is the same as the first output power the electronic device may determine the PA operation voltage at the second frequency corresponding to the first output power included in the second information as the first PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power.

In operation when the selected output power is different from the first output power the electronic device may compute a PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power included in the first information and a PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power using the second information.

When the selected output power is different from the first output power the electronic device may not determine the first PA operation voltage using the information previously stored in the memory as it is. In such case the electronic device may compute the PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power using the result of performing calibration.

In operation the electronic device may determine the computed PA operation voltage as the first operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power.

In operation the electronic device may select the output power of the PA required upon RF signal transmission through the antenna. The electronic device may select the output power of the PA based on the characteristics of the network connected with the electronic device .

In operation the electronic device may determine whether the frequency used for RF signal transmission is the same as the first frequency. Since for the first frequency the PA operation voltage and input power corresponding to the selected output power may be determined using the first information regarding the PA operation voltage and input power corresponding to the output power of the PA it may be identified whether the frequency used for RF signal transmission is the same as the first frequency.

In operation when the frequency for RF signal transmission is the first frequency the electronic device may determine that the first PA operation voltage is the PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power included in the first information.

In operation the electronic device may supply the first PA operation voltage to the PA and supply the input power corresponding to the selected output power determined based on the first information to the PA.

In operation the electronic device may identify the first power mode corresponding to the selected output power among the plurality of power modes of the PA. Since information on the variation rate between input power and output power differs per power mode the first information and the second information may also differ per power mode. Accordingly the electronic device may use the information corresponding to the identified first power mode in order to determine the input power and PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power.

In operation the electronic device may determine whether the selected output power belongs to a preset range of output power. The preset output power range may be set based on the characteristics of the PA and a plurality of power modes of the PA. In order to further reduce the time of calibration and the amount of data stored in the memory an output power range primarily used for RF signal transmission may be set and calibration may be performed to obtain the second information and the third information only within the set range.

In operation when the selected output power does not belong to the preset range the electronic device may determine the input power corresponding to the selected output power using the first information and the third information.

In operation the electronic device may supply the determined input power to the PA. When the selected output power does not belong to the preset range the PA operation voltage may not be determined separately. Thus the PA operation voltage may be maintained as the existing PA operation voltage having been supplied to the PA.

In operation the electronic device may determine whether the selected output power is the same as the first output power. Since the first output power has been calibrated at each frequency the electronic device may determine whether the information previously stored in the memory may directly be used by determining whether the selected output power is the same as the first output power.

In operation when the selected output power is the same as the first output power the electronic device may determine the PA operation voltage corresponding to the first output power included in the second information as the first PA operation voltage. Calibration may also be performed at the second frequency for the first output power and the second information may be generated based on the calibration. Thus when the selected output power is the same as the first output power the electronic device may determine the first PA operation voltage using the second information including a result of the calibration.

In operation when the selected output power is different from the first output power the electronic device may compute a PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power included in the first information and a PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power using the second information.

When the selected output power is different from the first output power the electronic device may not determine the first PA operation voltage using the information previously stored in the memory as it is. In such case the electronic device may compute the PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power using the result of performing calibration.

In operation the electronic device may determine the computed PA operation voltage as the first operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a method for operating an electronic device for transmission of a radio frequency RF signal comprises selecting output power of a power amplifier PA required upon transmission of a signal with a second frequency through an antenna determining a first PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power using first information stored in a memory of the electronic device and second information regarding a PA operation voltage corresponding to first output power of the PA at the second frequency supplying the determined first PA operation voltage to the PA and supplying input power corresponding to the selected output power at the second frequency to the PA wherein the first information may be information regarding a PA operation voltage and input power corresponding to output power of the PA at a first frequency different from the second frequency.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure determining the first PA operation voltage may include determining whether the selected output power belongs to a preset output power range and when the selected output power belongs to the preset output power range determining the first PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power using the second information.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure determining the first PA operation voltage may include when the selected output power is the same as the first output power determining that a PA operation voltage corresponding to the first output power included in the second information is the first PA operation voltage.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure determining the first PA operation voltage may include when the selected output power is different from the first output power computing a PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power included in the first information and a PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power using the second information and determining that the computed PA operation voltage is the first PA operation voltage.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure computing the PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power may include when the selected output power is larger than the first output power computing the PA operation voltage using a first constant F1 .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure computing the PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power may include when the selected output power is smaller than the first output power computing the PA operation voltage using a second constant F2 .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the memory may store the first information and the second information for each of a plurality of power modes based on a characteristic of the PA.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the method may further comprise identifying a first power mode corresponding to the selected output power among the plurality of power modes and determining the first PA operation voltage may include determining the first PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power using at least one of the first information and the second information corresponding to the first power mode.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the memory may further include third information regarding input power corresponding to second output power of the PA adjusted based on the first information at the second frequency.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure supplying the input power to the PA may include supplying input power corresponding to the selected output power determined using the third information to the PA.

A method for calibrating the PA is described with reference to . The calibration on the PA may be carried out with the PA the electronic device and the first electronic device performing the calibration connected together. The electronic device may receive and store at least one of first information second information or third information obtained as the first electronic device performs calibration.

In operation the first electronic device may obtain the first information regarding the PA operation voltage and input power corresponding to the output power of the PA through calibration at the first frequency. The first electronic device may obtain the first information by performing calibration at the first frequency corresponding to a first channel among a plurality of channels available for RF signal transmission.

In operation the first electronic device may obtain the third information regarding the input power corresponding to the second output power through the calibration on the second output power among output power of the PA at the second frequency different from the first frequency.

In operation the first electronic device may determine whether the number of preset output power ranges is one to determine the PA operation voltage corresponding to the output power upon RF signal transmission. When there are a plurality of preset output power ranges the second information needs to be obtained for each range. Thus the first electronic device may identify the number of preset output power ranges.

In operation when the number of preset output power ranges is one the first electronic device may set the first output power within the output power range.

In operation the first electronic device may obtain the second information regarding the PA operation voltage corresponding to the first output power at the second frequency different from the first frequency.

In operation when the number of preset output power ranges is two or more the first electronic device may set the first output power within the selected output power range among the plurality of output power ranges.

In operation the first electronic device may obtain the second information regarding the PA operation voltage corresponding to the first output power within the selected output power range at the second frequency.

In operation the first electronic device may determine whether calibration has been complete on all of the plurality of output power ranges. When calibration has been complete on all of the plurality of output power ranges the calibration process may be terminated.

In operation unless calibration has been complete on all the output power ranges the first electronic device may change the selected output power range to another output power range among the plurality of output power ranges and may perform calibration on the changed output power range to obtain the second information. The first electronic device may perform the operation of obtaining the second information corresponding to each of the plurality of output power ranges until calibration is complete on all of the plurality of output power ranges.

Further it is assumed in that the PA operation voltage corresponding to the output power at the second frequency is determined based on the first information and second information only within an output power range from 8 dBm to 16 dBm and that the PA operation voltage corresponding to the output power is determined based on the result of the calibration for other ranges than the above range. Various output power ranges may be set depending on the user s settings considering e.g. PA operation characteristics or output power more frequently used upon RF signal transmission.

As described above since the PA operation voltage is determined based on the first information and second information only within the range from 8 dBm to 16 dBm while the PA operation voltage corresponding to the output power is determined based on the result of the calibration for the other ranges than the above range the first curve may be the same as the third curve for the other ranges than the above range.

By contrast since methods for determining the PA operation voltage corresponding to the output power differ in the range the first curve may be different from the third curve . However since the PA operation voltage on the first curve may be determined based on at least one of the first information and the second information obtained as the result of calibration it may be rendered to match through a predetermined correspondence the third curve representing the relation with the PA operation voltage corresponding to the output power at the first frequency determined based on the first information. Matching between the first curve and the third curve through the predetermined correspondence is described below with reference to

In contrast since the PA operation voltage on the second curve is determined using the result of calibration at the second frequency even when the PA operation voltages at the first frequency corresponding to different adjacent output power levels the PA operation voltages on the second curve corresponding to different output power levels may differ from each other. On the contrary as set forth above as matching occurs between the first curve and the third curve through the predetermined correspondence when the PA operation voltages at the first frequency corresponding to different output power levels are the same the PA operation voltages on the first curve corresponding to the different output power levels are the same.

For example when the same third curve is presented corresponding to adjacent different output power levels as shown in the area of the PA operation voltages on the second curve corresponding to the different output power levels may differ from each other but the PA operation voltages on the first curve corresponding to the different output power levels are identical to each other.

The electronic device may determine the first PA operation voltage at the second frequency corresponding to the output power within the preset range using at least one of the first information and second information.

When the selected output power differs from the first output power the electronic device may determine the first PA operation voltage using a preset equation as described above in connection with . As set forth in Equation 1 the determined first PA operation voltage may one to one match the PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power at the first frequency. Further since the matching relation between the first PA operation voltage and the PA operation voltage corresponding to the selected output power at the first frequency uses such a preset equation as Equation 1 the correspondence between the PA operation voltage at the first frequency and the PA operation voltage at the second frequency may be shown linearly or regularly.

As shown in the first area and the second area in the graph of the correspondence between the PA operation voltage at the first frequency corresponding to the selected output power and the PA operation voltage at the second frequency may be presented linearly or regularly.

Further when the selected output power is the same as the first output power the electronic device may determine that the PA operation voltage corresponding to the first output power included in the second information is the first PA operation voltage.

As such when the selected output power is the same as the first output power the first PA operation voltage is determined based on the second information obtained as a result of calibration. Thus the correspondence the PA operation voltage at the first frequency corresponding to the first output power and the PA operation voltage at the second frequency may differ from the correspondence between the PA operation voltage at the first frequency and PA operation voltage at the second frequency corresponding to the first area and the second area .

The points representing the PA operation voltage at the first frequency and the PA operation voltage at the second frequency in the case where the selected output power is the same as the first output power as shown in may be displayed on the graph to be different from the linear and regular correspondence shown in the first area and second area . Unlike this the second curve and third curve as shown in do not correspond to each other and the correspondence between the second curve and the third curve may be shown irregularly or unpredictably depending on the result of calibration.

The processor may control multiple hardware and software components connected to the processor by running e.g. an operating system or application programs and the processor may process and compute various data. The processor may be implemented in e.g. a system on chip SoC . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the processor may further include a graphic processing unit GPU and or image signal processor. The processor may include at least some e.g. the cellular module of the components shown in . The processor may load a command or data received from at least one of other components e.g. a non volatile memory on a volatile memory process the command or data and store various data in the non volatile memory.

The communication module may have the same or similar configuration to the communication modules of . The communication module may include e.g. a cellular module a Wi Fi module a Bluetooth module a GNSS module e.g. a GPS module a Glonass module a Beidou module or a Galileo module an NFC module and a radio frequency RF module .

The cellular module may provide voice call video call text or Internet services through e.g. a communication network. The cellular module may perform identification or authentication on the electronic device in the communication network using a subscriber identification module e.g. the SIM card . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may perform at least some of the functions provided by the processor . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the cellular module may include a communication processor CP .

The Wi Fi module the Bluetooth module the GNSS module or the NFC module may include a process for e.g. processing data communicated through the module. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least some e.g. two or more of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the Bluetooth module the GNSS module or the NFC module may be included in a single integrated circuit IC or an IC package.

The RF module may communicate data e.g. communication signals e.g. RF signals . The RF module may include e.g. a transceiver a power amplifier module PAM a frequency filter a low noise amplifier LNA or an antenna. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least one of the cellular module the Wi Fi module the Bluetooth module the GNSS module or the NFC module may communicate RF signals through a separate RF module.

The subscription identification module may include e.g. a card including a subscriber identification module and or an embedded SIM and may contain unique identification information e.g. an integrated circuit card identifier ICCID or subscriber information e.g. an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI .

The memory e.g. the memory may include e.g. an internal memory or an external memory . The internal memory may include at least one of e.g. a volatile memory e.g. a dynamic random access memory DRAM a static RAM SRAM a synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM etc. or a non volatile memory e.g. a one time programmable read only memory OTPROM a programmable ROM PROM an erasable and programmable ROM EPROM an electrically erasable and programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a flash memory e.g. a NAND flash or a NOR flash a hard drive or solid state drive SSD .

The external memory may include a flash drive e.g. a compact flash CF memory a secure digital SD memory a micro SD memory a min SD memory an extreme digital xD memory a multi media card MMC or a Memory Stick . The external memory may be functionally and or physically connected with the electronic device via various interfaces.

For example the sensor module may measure a physical quantity or detect a motion state of the electronic device and the sensor module may convert the measured or detected information into an electrical signal. The sensor module may include at least one of e.g. a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an air pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H such as an red green blue RGB sensor a bio sensor L a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K or an ultra violet UV sensor M. Additionally or alternatively the sensor module may include e.g. an E nose sensor an electromyography EMG sensor an electroencephalogram EEG sensor an electrocardiogram ECG sensor an infrared IR sensor an iris sensor or a finger print sensor. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one or more of the sensors included in the sensor module. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the electronic device may further include a processor configured to control the sensor module as part of the processor or separately from the processor and the electronic device may control the sensor module while the processor is in a sleep mode.

The input device may include e.g. a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input device . The touch panel may use at least one of capacitive resistive infrared or ultrasonic methods. The touch panel may further include a control circuit. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer and may provide a user with a tactile reaction.

The digital pen sensor may include e.g. a part of a touch panel or a separate sheet for recognition. The key may include e.g. a physical button optical key or key pad. The ultrasonic input device may sense an ultrasonic wave generated from an input tool through a microphone to identify data corresponding to the sensed ultrasonic wave.

The display may include a panel a hologram device or a projector . The panel may be implemented to be flexible transparent or wearable. The panel may also be incorporated with the touch panel in a module. The hologram device may make three dimensional 3D images holograms in the air by using light interference. The projector may display an image by projecting light onto a screen. The screen may be for example located inside or outside of the electronic device . In accordance with an embodiment the display may further include a control circuit to control the panel the hologram device or the projector .

The interface may include e.g. a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a USB an optical interface or a D subminiature D sub . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include a Mobile High definition Link MHL interface a secure digital SD card multimedia card MMC interface or infrared data association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module may convert a sound into an electric signal or vice versa for example. At least a part of the audio module may be included in e.g. the input output interface. The audio module may process sound information input or output through e.g. a speaker a receiver an earphone or a microphone .

For example the camera module may be a device for recording still images and videos and may include according to an embodiment of the present disclosure one or more image sensors e.g. front and back sensors a lens an Image signal processor ISP or a flash such as an LED or xenon lamp.

The power manager module may manage power of the electronic device for example. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the power manager module may include a power management Integrated circuit PMIC a charger IC or a battery or fuel gauge. The PMIC may have a wired and or wireless recharging scheme. The wireless charging scheme may include e.g. a magnetic resonance scheme a magnetic induction scheme or an electromagnetic wave based scheme and an additional circuit such as a coil loop a resonance circuit a rectifier or the like may be added for wireless charging. The battery gauge may measure an amount of remaining power of the battery a voltage a current or a temperature while the battery is being charged. The battery may include e.g. a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator may indicate a particular state of the electronic device or a part e.g. the processor of the electronic device including e.g. a booting state a message state or recharging state. The motor may convert an electric signal to a mechanical vibration and may generate a vibrational or haptic effect. Although not shown a processing unit for supporting mobile TV such as a GPU may be included in the electronic device . The processing unit for supporting mobile TV may process media data conforming to a standard for digital multimedia broadcasting DMB digital video broadcasting DVB or MediaFlo .

Each of the aforementioned components of the electronic device may include one or more parts and a name of the part may vary with a type of the electronic device. The electronic device in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the aforementioned components omit some of them or include other additional component s . Some of the components may be combined into an entity but the entity may perform the same functions as the components may do.

The term module may refer to a unit including one of hardware software and firmware or a combination thereof. The term module may be interchangeably used with a unit logic logical block component or circuit. The module may be a minimum unit or part of an integrated component. The module may be a minimum unit or part of performing one or more functions. The module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example the module may include at least one of Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chips Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs or Programmable Logic Arrays PLAs that perform some operations.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure at least a part of the device e.g. modules or their functions or method e.g. operations may be implemented as instructions stored in a computer readable storage medium e.g. in the form of a program module. The instructions when executed by a processor e.g. the processor may enable the processor to carry out a corresponding function. The computer readable storage medium may be e.g. the memory .

The computer readable storage medium may include a hardware device such as hard discs floppy discs and magnetic tapes e.g. a magnetic tape optical media such as compact disc ROMs CD ROMs and digital versatile discs DVDs magneto optical media such as floptical disks ROMs RAMs flash memories and or the like. Examples of the program instructions may include not only machine language codes but also high level language codes which are executable by various computing means using an interpreter. The aforementioned hardware devices may be configured to operate as one or more software modules to carry out embodiments of the present disclosure and vice versa.

Modules or programming modules in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one or more of the aforementioned components omit some of them or further include other additional components. Operations performed by modules programming modules or other components in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure may be carried out sequentially simultaneously repeatedly or heuristically. Furthermore some of the operations may be performed in a different order or omitted or include other additional operation s .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure there is provided a storage medium storing instructions configured to when executed by at least one processor enable the at least one processor to perform at least one operation wherein the at least one operation may include determining a first PA operation voltage corresponding to selected output power for the RF signal transmission using at least one of first information and second information stored in a memory of the electronic device supplying the first PA operation voltage to the PA and supplying input power corresponding to the selected output power to the PA.

Although the present disclosure has been described with embodiments various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art. It is intended that the present disclosure encompass such changes and modifications as fall within the scope of the appended claims.

