---

title: Gaze assisted object recognition
abstract: An electronic device can attempt to determine a gaze direction of a user, which can be used to determine an object of interest to the user. Determining the gaze direction helps to reduce the search space and reduce processing requirements for identifying the object. Image information can be captured that includes the object of interest, which then can be analyzed to recognize the type of object. Upon recognizing the object, the user can be provided with information about the object, which in some cases can depend at least in part upon a current context or location of the object. If the object is a networked device, the user can potentially be provided with input options for controlling the device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09563272&OS=09563272&RS=09563272
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09563272
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160418
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 485 195 filed on May 31 2012 the content of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Electronic devices are increasingly able to provide various types of information and perform various tasks. For example a user wanting to obtain information about a book can capture an image of the cover of the book and upload that image to a book identification service for analysis. In many cases the user must actively focus a camera of the device on the object of interest and make that object occupy a majority of the image. Such an approach requires a significant amount of effort on the part of the user and in some cases may not be possible given the location of the object. In other cases an application executing on a device can attempt to recognize all the objects in an image but such an approach takes a significant amount of processing and power which can be particularly undesirable for small portable devices with limited battery life.

Systems and methods in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure overcome one or more of the above referenced and other deficiencies in conventional approaches to recognizing objects using an electronic device. In particular various embodiments determine the gaze direction of a user to attempt to determine an object at which the user is looking. The ability to identify objects using gaze helps to minimize the search space when analyzing captured image information including the objects which can reduce processing time and save power. Such an approach also enables a user to specify an object to be recognized which can enable the user to obtain information about that object or in some cases enable the user to interact with and or control some aspect of that object.

Various other functions and advantages are described and suggested below as may be provided in accordance with the various embodiments.

In this example a camera on the device can capture image information including the book of interest and at least a portion of the image can be displayed on a display screen of the computing device. At least a portion of the image information can be analyzed and upon a match being located identifying information can be displayed back to the user via the display screen of the computing device . The portion of the image to be analyzed can be indicated manually such as by a user pointing to the book on the screen or drawing a bounding box around the book. In other embodiments one or more image analysis algorithms can attempt to automatically locate one or more objects in an image. In some embodiments a user can manually cause image information to be analyzed while in other embodiments the image information can be analyzed automatically either on the device or by transferring image data to a remote system or service as discussed later herein.

Using approaches in accordance with various embodiments the computing device can determine the gaze direction of the user such as by capturing and analyzing images of the user s head face and or eyes as discussed elsewhere herein. Upon determining the user s gaze direction as well as a relative position of the user to the computing device the computing device can correlate that gaze direction with objects in the field of view of the camera to determine that the user is gazing at a particular book . The particular book might be determined when the user s gaze direction is determined to point in a general direction that is substantially within the bounds of the book for at least a period of time referred to herein as a dwell period. The eyes might be fixed on a portion of the book might glance at portions within the book or might saccade within the bounds of the book among other such options.

In at least some embodiments the device might show a view of the object at which the user is gazing as illustrated in the example of . In some embodiments this might be a still image shown for a period of time to enable the user to determine that the correct object was identified using the gaze direction. A user in some embodiments can provide an input to acknowledge the correctly determined object or to indicate to the device that the incorrect object was selected. In other embodiments the image portion corresponding to the identified object can be determined for analysis but not shown to the user. As can be seen the view of the single book has less extraneous information to analyze using an object recognition algorithm or similar such process than the view that includes all four books the shelves etc. Once the object is recognized using such an algorithm information about that object can be displayed or otherwise provided to the user.

Depending at least in part upon the relative orientation of the computing device the same or at least one different camera can also capture and analyze image information to determine the relative direction and or location of one or more objects with respect to the computing device . In this example both objects are within the field of view of the camera such that the device can determine the relative direction to each object. Again if stereoscopic or other such information is available the computing device can also determine the relative positions of those objects in three dimensions. In some embodiments the device might have multiple cameras of the same or different types at various locations on the device and the device might select some or all of these to capture information about objects around the device. The selection can be based on factors such as the orientation of the device e.g. cameras facing down at a desktop might not be used and or the gaze direction and or orientation of the user i.e. do not capture information for objects behind the user or in directions which the user is not looking .

When the device has determined the gaze direction of the user as well as the relative directions and or locations of the nearby objects the device can do a geometric analysis to determine the object at which the user is currently gazing. Using simple vector addition for example if the device knows the relative position of the user the relative position of the objects and the gaze direction of the user the device can add the appropriate vectors to obtain the result that is a vector corresponding to the location of the object at which the user is gazing. If three dimensional information is not available or a lower resolution is acceptable the device can use two dimensional direction information to make a similar determination. For example in this case there is one object on the right side of the device and one object on the left side of the device. If the device can determine that the user is gazing to the left that might be enough to indicate to the device that the user is likely looking at the object to the left. Particularly where a user is attempting to provide input or otherwise interact with a recognized device the device can attempt to determine the most likely object in that general direction with which the user can interact. If a decision cannot be made with an acceptable level of confidence the device might activate an additional camera prompt the user for a selection or perform another such action.

In this example where the device has determined the object of interest the device can attempt to recognize the object as discussed elsewhere herein. Upon determining a type of the object the device can determine the type of interactions that the user can have with respect to that object. For example if the object is a book that the user does not own there might be information available that the user can obtain about the book such as author and title reviews versions available and the like. If on the other hand the object is an electronic device with which the computing device is able to communicate such as over at least one network the computing device can determine which inputs or controls are available for that type of electronic device and can provide at least a portion of those inputs or controls to the user. For example if the electronic device is an Internet radio the computing device might enable the user to use the touch screen or other portions of the computing device to adjust a volume of the radio change the station turn off the device or perform another such action. In some embodiments a user gazing at a device to select the device can provide an audible command perform a gesture provide a motion or indicate another such input that can be used to control an aspect of the device. For example a user can say on to activate the device might make an up motion with a hand to increase the volume or might squeeze a pressure sensitive portion of the device to change to the next favorite station among other such actions.

Another advantage to using gaze tracking is that the user can provide such input or commands without having to otherwise specify or customize those commands for a particular device. For example in it is possible that both the objects are devices that are able to be turned on by the user issuing an on command that is detected by the computing device . Without gaze information the user would have to somehow indicate to the computing device which device is to be turned on such as by selecting a view of that object on the display screen or modifying the command to say something such as please turn on the downstairs stereo. By instead being able to capture gaze information the user can simply look in the direction of the device and issue a command such as on whereby the computing device can determine the device of interest recognize that device determine the necessary protocol and or message to send to that device and can cause that device to be activated. In some embodiments depending on the type of device and or action a user gazing at that object for at least a determined dwell time can cause an action to automatically occur. For example a user might be able to gaze towards a specific light switch and say on and the device can cause the light for that switch to be turned on. In another embodiment the user might be able to instead simply gaze at that switch or light for a minimum dwell time after which the computing device can issue a command or request to activate that light. Various other approaches can be used as well within the scope of the various embodiments. The use of gaze without a confirming command may not be desirable for all objects however as a user looking at a television might not want the television to turn off or a user looking out the window might not want the blinds to automatically close etc.

In some embodiments a computing device might utilize a peripheral device or other form factor in order to be able to more accurately determine gaze information even for times when the user is tilting his or her head etc. For example illustrate different perspective views of an example pair of glasses that can be used in accordance with various embodiments. Such glasses can have at least one camera facing the user in order to be able to capture images or video of the user s eyes. In this example there is an infrared IR emitter and an IR detector for the left eye and a separate pair of an IR emitter and an IR detector for the left eye. IR is used because the eye reflects IR light but IR is not distracting to a user. Further determining pupil position can be relatively straightforward using IR as discussed in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 332 128 filed Dec. 20 2011 and entitled Conflict Resolution for Pupil Detection which is hereby incorporated by reference herein. Although a single pair of IR emitter and detector could be used using a pair for each eye can help to improve results and ensure that the eyes are within the field of view of the detectors. Image information can be captured by the detectors and analyzed to determine a gaze direction of the user with respect to the glasses.

As illustrated in there can be at least one camera on the front of the glasses as well. This camera can be used to capture image information about objects that might be within the user s line of sight. The image information can be captured and analyzed to determine the relative direction of one or more objects which can be used with the gaze direction information to determine the object at which the user is gazing. In some embodiments stereoscopic cameras or multiple cameras can be used to determine three dimensional information about the relative positions of the objects with respect to the glasses but in general the proximity of the glasses to the user s eyes means that the point of view will be substantially similar such that a direction to an object from a user s eyes will be almost the same as the direction from the glasses to that object. Thus processing needs can be reduced while using the glasses. Further as discussed such a device enables the gaze to be determined even when the user is turning his or her head or might otherwise not be facing a computing device.

The glasses can have various other components as well which can be used for different types of functionality. For example the glasses might have one or more speakers or earphones that can enable the glasses to provide data to the user through audio output. For example if a user is at a party or business meeting and wants to obtain information about people in the room e.g. name occupation etc. that the user may have met previously the user can configure the glasses and any computing device in communication with the glasses to provide the data through a relatively low volume audio output. Such an approach can be advantageous to looking at the data on a display screen of a computing device as the user might want to obtain the information discretely such that the other people will not get the impression that the user does not remember them. In at least some embodiments these audio elements can also include one or more microphones that can enable the user to provide audio commands or input. In at least some embodiments the glasses might additionally or alternatively use a heads up display mechanism HUD to display information to the user using information projected on one or more lenses of the device among other such options.

The example glasses also include one or more communication components which can use any appropriate wireless or potentially wired communication technology for communicating with one or more other devices. The technology can include for example Bluetooth 3G 4G WiFi RF and other such wireless communication technologies. The communication component s can communicate with another computing device associated with the user other nearby devices capable of communicating over the same communication channel other glasses etc. The example glasses shown also include at least one haptic feedback element capable of providing haptic feedback to the user for any appropriate reason although haptic feedback is not utilized in at least some embodiments. For example the user might look at a person that a user knows might look at a device that the user can control etc. In response the glasses might provide a short haptic feedback to inform the user that information and or inputs are available for that object. Haptics can be used for other notifications as well such as low power of a battery not shown of the glasses an incoming notification and the like.

In some embodiments where high resolution and or precision might not be needed the glasses might utilize only one or more front facing cameras in order to identify an object or at least narrow the search field. For example a user might turn his or her head to the left or the right which can give a general indication of the direction in which the user is looking. The user also can be trained to face an object of interest in such a mode if the viewing direction is to be interpreted as input instead of just moving the user s eyes while keeping the head substantially stationary. To save power in some embodiments a pair of glasses might first attempt to determine an object of interest based on the direction the glasses are pointing and then activate the gaze determination components if the object cannot be determined with at least an acceptable amount of certainty. In embodiments where the direction of the glasses is used to identify objects information from sensors in the glasses such as position sensors e.g. GPS motion sensors e.g. gyroscopes accelerometers etc. and the like can be used to determine the relative position orientation and or direction of the glasses. Various other approaches can be used as well within the scope of the various embodiments.

In some embodiments a user might wear an earpiece or headset rather than glasses which can include at least a portion of this functionality. For example the headset can include a microphone speakers and potentially haptic feedback elements as well as communication elements in order to enable the user to communicate with the computing device and receive information or notifications from the device. In at least some embodiments the headset or earpiece might also include a camera that can be used to capture image information to determine a direction which the user s head is facing. The device might also or alternatively include one or more position and or motion sensors for enabling a determination of the orientation of the device. Various other combinations or configurations can be used as well within the scope of the various embodiments.

As discussed a user can provide commands that can be used to control a device such as by gazing at a network connected light switch and saying on or using another such approach. For devices such as televisions or stereos for example there can be multiple actions or inputs that can be performed. For at least some of these devices a computing device can attempt to download or otherwise obtain information about a control scheme for that device and can provide at least some of these control options to the user. In a television example the computing device might download the control scheme and display options for controlling the device that enable the computing device to function as a virtual remote control for the device. In some embodiments the device might be able to locate an image or description of an image of a remote control for that television and display or render that image on a display screen of the computing device. The user can then touch or otherwise select one of the displayed buttons or options on the remote control image that the computing device can interpret and then use to send an appropriate command to the television over an appropriate network wireless channel etc. Such an approach in some embodiments can enable a user to also generate custom keys or functions that might not be available on the conventional remote for the television. For example a user might have two favorite channels one that is available in high definition and one that is available in standard definition. A user could use the computing device to create a button that changes the channel and the resolution when necessary for at least one of these channels effectively combining two or more buttons into one. If the television has different modes such as theater mode or sports mode that affects contrast and brightness settings the custom button can also be configured to select the appropriate mode. Various other options can be added or configured as well within the scope of the various embodiments.

The request in this example can be sent to an appropriate content provider as may provide one or more services systems or applications for processing such requests. The information can be sent by streaming or otherwise transmitting data as soon as it is obtained by the device and or ready for transmission or can be sent in batches or through periodic communications etc. In this example the request is received to a network interface layer of the content provider . The network interface layer can include any appropriate components known or used to receive requests from across a network such as may include one or more application programming interfaces APIs or other such interfaces for receiving such requests. The network interface layer might be owned and operated by the provider or leveraged by the provider as part of a shared resource or cloud offering. The network interface layer can receive and analyze the request and cause at least a portion of the information in the request to be directed to an appropriate system or service such as a matching service as illustrated in . A matching service in this example includes components operable to receive data about an object such as digital image or video data analyze the data and return information relating to people products places things or other items that are determined to match objects in that data.

The matching service in this example can cause information to be sent to at least one identification service device system or module that is operable to analyze the data and attempt to locate one or more matches for objects reflected in the data. In at least some embodiments an identification service will process the received data such as to extract points of interest or unique features in a captured image or video portion for example then compare the processed data against data stored in a matching data store or other such location. In other embodiments unique feature points image histograms text or other such information about an image can be generated on the device and uploaded to the matching service such that the identification service can use the processed information to perform the match without a separate image analysis and feature extraction process. Certain embodiments can support both options and combinations thereof among others. The data in an object matching data store might be indexed and or processed to facilitate with matching as is known for such purposes. For example the data store might include a set of histograms or feature vectors instead of a copy of images to be used for matching which can increase the speed and lower the processing requirements of the matching. Approaches for generating information to use for such matching are well known in the art and as such will not be discussed herein in detail.

The matching service can receive information from each contacted identification service as to whether one or more matches could be found with at least a threshold level of confidence for example and can receive any appropriate information for a located potential match. The information from each identification service can be analyzed and or processed by one or more applications of the matching service such as to determine data useful in obtaining information for each of the potential matches to provide to the user. For example a matching service might receive bar codes product identifiers or any other types of data from the identification service s and might process that data to be provided to a service such as an information aggregator service that is capable of locating applications services or other items that might be relevant to the identified object.

In at least some embodiments an information aggregator might be associated with an entity that provides an electronic marketplace or otherwise provides applications or content for consumption e.g. purchase rent lease or download by various customers. Although products and electronic commerce may be presented in this and other examples presented it should be understood that these are merely examples and that approaches presented in the present disclosure can relate to any appropriate types of objects or devices as discussed and suggested elsewhere herein. In such an instance the information aggregator service can utilize the aggregated data from the matching service to attempt to locate products that are offered through the marketplace and that are related to the object. The information aggregator service can upon locating a matching product locate information about that product in an information data store or other such location and can attempt to locate actions or inputs that can be used with respect to the object from an input data store or other such location. As discussed the input data can include control schemes and images as well as protocols and commands that are able to be accepted by the object. Other types of information can be determined as well as discussed elsewhere herein. Information for matching products can be stored in a log data store or other such location which can be used to assist in determining future potential matches or suggestions that might be of interest to various users. Various other types of information can be returned as well within the scope of the various embodiments.

It should be understood that although the identification services are shown to be part of the provider environment in that one or more of these identification services might be operated by third parties that offer these services to the provider. For example an electronic retailer might offer an application that can be installed on a computing device for identifying objects. When a user transfers information about an object for example the provider could forward this information to a third party who has software that specializes in identifying objects. The provider could then match the results from the third party with products from the retailer s electronic catalog in order to return the intended results to the user.

In some embodiments the user can request specific information about an object. For example a user could gaze at a person and ask a question such as who is that which the device could analyze using voice recognition. The appropriate computing device could then provide the user with the requested information such as name title position relation to the user or other such information. In some embodiments the type of information could also be based at least in part upon the context. For example if the user is at work the identification information for a person might include professional information such as their title and company. If the user views the same person while in an entertainment venue on the other hand the information might include social information such as the person s name spouse and children names activities or hobbies or other such information.

The context can be determined in any of a number of ways. For example the device might include a GPS or have access to cellular triangulation information that can be used to determine a present location of the user. The device could alternatively or additionally capture image information indicating a name of the store or location. The device can then potentially determine a type of location such as an electronics store amusement park user s home etc. The device then can attempt to determine information that is relevant for that context. For example if the user is gazing at a television in an electronic store the device might provide purchasing related information such as suggested retail price reviews warranty information and the like. If on the other hand that user is gazing at the same model television in the user s home the device might provide information such as upcoming shows virtual remote control inputs etc.

In some embodiments a device might be able to determine an object of interest without the device capturing image information of the object. For example if the user is outside and is facing a building or monument the device can use information such as the coordinates of the device and the orientation of the device as may be determined using a GPS and an electronic compass respectively to determine a direction the user is facing from a current location which can be compared with map information to determine that the user is facing that building or monument. Similarly if the user is in the user s home and the device has built a 3D model of the user s home the device can potentially use location and direction information to determine the object in which the user is likely interested. Various other approaches can be utilized as well within the scope of the various embodiments.

In some embodiments a device might indicate to a user which object the device thinks the user is interested in before obtaining and or providing information about that object. For example the device can display an image of the object on a display screen and can display a bounding box or other indication that the device has determined that object to be of interest to the user. In order for the user to view the box the user could look away from the object so the image of the object could be displayed for a period of time such as 3 5 seconds after which the image would go away and no information would be provided unless the user provided an acknowledgement. If the user is interested in that object the user can provide an acknowledgment by making a gesture nodding the user s head yes or no speaking a voice command blinking the user s eyes tapping the display screen squeezing the computing device or performing another such action. In some embodiments if the user is wearing a device for gaze tracking and has a phone in his or her hand or pocket the user might squeeze or tap the phone to indicate that the user wants more information about the selected object.

In some embodiments the type of action taken by the user can also indicate the type of information to be provided. For example if the user is interested in information about the object the user might flick the device which could be picked up by a sensor such as a gyroscope or inertial sensor. If the user instead wants control options for the device the user might squeeze the device as might be detected by at least one pressure sensitive element of the device.

In some embodiments a user might be able to indicate or train the device to provide certain information or inputs for certain types of objects. For example a user could manually specify that the device should provide information about the user s upcoming appointments when the user gazes at a clock for a period of time. Alternatively the user might always ask for schedule information after gazing at a clock and the device can learn to provide that type of information in response to the user gazing at that type of object.

In order to determine the gaze direction of a user for such a process a device in at least some embodiments has to determine the relative position of the user relative to the device as well as dimensions or other aspects of the user at that position. illustrates an example wherein images are captured and analyzed to determine the relative positions of the user s head and the user s eyes. In a system wherein the algorithm is able to differentiate the user s pupils the system can also utilize the relative position of the pupils with respect to the eye position. For example illustrates a case where the user is looking left or to the user s right such that a center point of each user s pupil is to the left in the image of the center point of the respective eye. Similarly illustrates a case where the user is looking up . As can be seen the positions of the pupils have moved above a center point of the eyes. The position of the pupils can change without the user moving his or her head. Thus the system may be able to in some embodiments detect a glance without a change in head position. A system in accordance with one embodiment can take advantage of such information by adjusting the display of the computing device according to the detected position of the user s pupils relative to the user s eyes and thus the determined area on the display at which the user is looking. A system can also detect movements such as a user closing his or her eyes for an extended period of time wherein the device can perform an action such as placing an electronic book reader in a sleep or power limiting mode deactivating image capture or powering off the device. A system in some embodiments can differentiate between different types of movement such as between eye tremor smooth tracking and ballistic movements. In some embodiments a user can provide specific input though various eye gestures such as for a glance or gaze associated with a specific ballistic movement. A system could also require no ballistic movement in a continued gaze for certain input or actions such as to enable a user to obtain additional information of the current type.

The example computing device also includes at least one microphone or other audio capture device capable of capturing audio data such as words or commands spoken by a user of the device music playing near the device etc. In this example a microphone is placed on the same side of the device as the display screen such that the microphone will typically be better able to capture words spoken by a user of the device. In at least some embodiments a microphone can be a directional microphone that captures sound information from substantially directly in front of the microphone and picks up only a limited amount of sound from other directions. It should be understood that a microphone might be located on any appropriate surface of any region face or edge of the device in different embodiments and that multiple microphones can be used for audio recording and filtering purposes etc.

The example computing device also includes at least one orientation sensor such as a position and or movement determining element. Such a sensor can include for example an accelerometer or gyroscope operable to detect an orientation and or change in orientation of the computing device as well as small movements of the device. An orientation sensor also can include an electronic or digital compass which can indicate a direction e.g. north or south in which the device is determined to be pointing e.g. with respect to a primary axis or other such aspect . An orientation sensor also can include or comprise a global positioning system GPS or similar positioning element operable to determine relative coordinates for a position of the computing device as well as information about relatively large movements of the device. Various embodiments can include one or more such elements in any appropriate combination. As should be understood the algorithms or mechanisms used for determining relative position orientation and or movement can depend at least in part upon the selection of elements available to the device. In some embodiments a device can start analyzing image information when movement of the device is detected using one of these sensors. In other embodiments a user can provide input to the device by tilting the device shaking the device or performing another such motion or action.

In some embodiments the computing device of can include one or more communication components such as a Wi Fi Bluetooth RF wired or wireless communication system. The device in many embodiments can communicate with a network such as the Internet and may be able to communicate with other such devices. In some embodiments the device can include at least one additional input element able to receive conventional input from a user. This conventional input can include for example a push button touch pad touch screen wheel joystick keyboard mouse keypad or any other such device or element whereby a user can input a command to the device. In some embodiments however such a device might not include any buttons at all and might be controlled only through a combination of visual and audio commands such that a user can control the device without having to be in contact with the device.

The device also can include at least one orientation or motion sensor. As discussed such a sensor can include an accelerometer or gyroscope operable to detect an orientation and or change in orientation or an electronic or digital compass which can indicate a direction in which the device is determined to be facing. The mechanism s also or alternatively can include or comprise a global positioning system GPS or similar positioning element operable to determine relative coordinates for a position of the computing device as well as information about relatively large movements of the device. The device can include other elements as well such as may enable location determinations through triangulation or another such approach. These mechanisms can communicate with the processor whereby the device can perform any of a number of actions described or suggested herein.

As discussed different approaches can be implemented in various environments in accordance with the described embodiments. For example illustrates an example of an environment for implementing aspects in accordance with various embodiments. As will be appreciated although a Web based environment is used for purposes of explanation different environments may be used as appropriate to implement various embodiments. The system includes an electronic client device which can include any appropriate device operable to send and receive requests messages or information over an appropriate network and convey information back to a user of the device. Examples of such client devices include personal computers cell phones handheld messaging devices laptop computers set top boxes personal data assistants electronic book readers and the like. The network can include any appropriate network including an intranet the Internet a cellular network a local area network or any other such network or combination thereof. Components used for such a system can depend at least in part upon the type of network and or environment selected. Protocols and components for communicating via such a network are well known and will not be discussed herein in detail. Communication over the network can be enabled via wired or wireless connections and combinations thereof. In this example the network includes the Internet as the environment includes a Web server for receiving requests and serving content in response thereto although for other networks an alternative device serving a similar purpose could be used as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art.

The illustrative environment includes at least one application server and a data store . It should be understood that there can be several application servers layers or other elements processes or components which may be chained or otherwise configured which can interact to perform tasks such as obtaining data from an appropriate data store. As used herein the term data store refers to any device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and retrieving data which may include any combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any standard distributed or clustered environment. The application server can include any appropriate hardware and software for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device and handling a majority of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server provides access control services in cooperation with the data store and is able to generate content such as text graphics audio and or video to be transferred to the user which may be served to the user by the Web server in the form of HTML XML or another appropriate structured language in this example. The handling of all requests and responses as well as the delivery of content between the client device and the application server can be handled by the Web server . It should be understood that the Web and application servers are not required and are merely example components as structured code discussed herein can be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein.

The data store can include several separate data tables databases or other data storage mechanisms and media for storing data relating to a particular aspect. For example the data store illustrated includes mechanisms for storing production data and user information which can be used to serve content for the production side. The data store also is shown to include a mechanism for storing log or session data . It should be understood that there can be many other aspects that may need to be stored in the data store such as page image information and access rights information which can be stored in any of the above listed mechanisms as appropriate or in additional mechanisms in the data store . The data store is operable through logic associated therewith to receive instructions from the application server and obtain update or otherwise process data in response thereto. In one example a user might submit a search request for a certain type of element. In this case the data store might access the user information to verify the identity of the user and can access the catalog detail information to obtain information about elements of that type. The information can then be returned to the user such as in a results listing on a Web page that the user is able to view via a browser on the user device . Information for a particular element of interest can be viewed in a dedicated page or window of the browser.

Each server typically will include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server and typically will include computer readable medium storing instructions that when executed by a processor of the server allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art particularly in light of the disclosure herein.

The environment in one embodiment is a distributed computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depiction of the system in should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

As discussed above the various embodiments can be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers computing devices or processing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of applications. User or client devices can include any of a number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also can include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also can include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Various aspects also can be implemented as part of at least one service or Web service such as may be part of a service oriented architecture. Services such as Web services can communicate using any appropriate type of messaging such as by using messages in extensible markup language XML format and exchanged using an appropriate protocol such as SOAP derived from the Simple Object Access Protocol . Processes provided or executed by such services can be written in any appropriate language such as the Web Services Description Language WSDL . Using a language such as WSDL allows for functionality such as the automated generation of client side code in various SOAP frameworks.

Most embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as TCP IP OSI FTP UPnP NFS CIFS and AppleTalk. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a Web server the Web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s also may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response requests from user devices such as by executing one or more Web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or Web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

