---

title: Network coverage hole detection
abstract: A technology for a user equipment (UE) that is operable to connect to a third generation partnership project (3GPP) long term evolution (LTE) cell in a cellular network. Logged minimization of drive test (MDT) measurements can be recorded at the UE at a selected rate when the UE is in a radio resource control (RRC) idle mode in a first LTE cell in a cellular network. A change in a UE state of the RRC idle mode can be identified. The Logged MDT measurements can stop being recorded at the UE when the UE state changes from a camped normally UE state to another UE state of the RRC idle mode. The Logged MDT measurements can resume being recorded when the UE state changes to the camped normally UE state of the RRC idle mode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09549421&OS=09549421&RS=09549421
owner: INTEL IP CORPORATION
number: 09549421
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160126
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 255 216 filed Apr. 17 2014 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 859 121 filed Jul. 26 2013 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

When deploying a Radio Access Technology RAT in a communications network coverage planning can be a complex task for operators because of environmental conditions interference from other networks or devices and so forth. Avoiding coverage holes in cellular networks when planning cell locations can be difficult. Coverage detection and optimization processes can be used to detect coverage holes in cellular networks.

Traditionally coverage detection is performed through drive tests where a motor vehicle equipped with mobile radio equipment drives around in cellular networks measuring different network coverage metrics. The coverage measurements are then processed by radio experts for network coverage optimization. Network coverage can be optimized by tuning network parameters such as a transmission power of a node or antenna orientations and tilts. The use of drive tests can involve large Operational Expenditure OPEX delays in detecting the problems and may not offer a complete and reliable picture of the network coverage. Additionally the drive tests are limited to areas accessible by motor vehicles such as roads. Drive tests are not helpful in detecting coverage problems inside buildings off road environments or other areas not accessible to motor vehicles.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

Cellular network providers desire to provide optimal cellular coverage for users of the cellular network services. Previously cellular network providers deployed universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS nodes and or high speed packet access HSPA nodes to provide coverage to the users of the cellular network. More recently third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE coverage has been deployed by cellular network providers to increase the performance of cellular networks such as increasing data communication capacity and data transfer speeds. In some areas within the cellular networks of the service providers 3GPP LTE coverage is sporadic or intermittent e.g. there are holes in the 3GPP LTE network coverage. For example a cellular network of a service provider can offer continuous or comprehensive network coverage at an underlying UMTS HSPA layer of a network while offering limited or sporadic coverage at a 3GPP LTE layer of the network.

In cellular communications a coverage hole is an area in which the signal strength of a cellular network experienced by a user equipment UE is insufficient to maintain connectivity and there is no coverage from an alternative 3GPP LTE cell. For example a coverage hole can an area where a signal to noise ratio SNR or a signal to interference plus noise ratio SINR of a serving and neighboring cells such as 3GPP LTE cells is below a threshold level to maintain basic service. Coverage holes can be caused by physical obstructions such as new buildings and hills unsuitable antenna parameters or inadequate radio frequency RF planning. A multiple band multi band and or multiple radio access technology multi RAT UE can switch to another band or RAT when a coverage hole is detected.

Coverage holes can exist in a single cell or node of a cellular network or in the vicinity of a border between adjacent cells i.e. a cell edge. At a cell edge a UE or a network can perform a handover process to move the UE from one cell to another cell in the cellular network. A handover of the UE from one cell to another may fail because of the coverage holes between the cells. Coverage holes can also occur between different types of cells or nodes in a cellular network. For example when a UE is moving within the cellular network the UE may initially be in communication with a 3GPP LTE node and then move outside of the 3GGP LTE node coverage. When there is not 3GPP LTE coverage for a location where the UE is located the UE may search for another node within the cellular network such as a UMTS node and switch to the other node. The area where there 3GPP LTE node does not provide 3GPP LTE coverage to the UE can be a coverage hole for the 3GPP LTE network within the cellular network.

In one embodiment to determine coverage holes in a cellular network the cellular network can use a minimization of drive test MDT measurement. In one embodiment the MDT measurement can be used for a UE using an intra RAT mode i.e. when a UE switches between two nodes that are the same type of node with the same RAT. For example a UE that switches from one UMTS node to another UMTS node is using an intra RAT mode. In another embodiment the MDT measurement can be used for a UE using an inter RAT mode i.e. when a UE switches between two nodes that are different types of RATs. For example a UE that switches from a 3GPP LTE node to a UMTS node is using an inter RAT mode.

In one embodiment a UE can have an MDT configuration that is RAT specific. The MDT configuration can be used to configure the UE to take MDT measurements. The MDT measurements can include radio measurements and location information of the UE. One advantage of the cellular network using MDT measurements to determine cellular network coverage and coverage holes can be to assess network performance while reducing an Operational Expenditure OPEX associated with using traditional drive tests to determine cellular network coverage and coverage holes. In one embodiment a network operator can request the UEs perform and report specific radio measurement and or Quality of Service QoS measurements associated with the location of the UE.

In one embodiment to increase network performance and flexibility and reduce capital expenditures and operational expenditures a self organizing network SON can be used in a 3GPP network. A SON of a 3GPP network can have self organizing capabilities for automating the configuration and optimization of the wireless network by introducing functionalities of self configuration self optimization and self healing. Self configuration provides the capabilities for newly deployed eNode Bs in the cellular network to finish the configuration with automatic installation procedures for obtaining the basic configuration information to operate the system. Self configuration procedures can include automatic configuration of physical cell identity neighbor list configuration and coverage and capacity parameters.

A coverage and capacity optimization CCO function can be used by mobile network operators MNOs to reduce OPEX by automating the maintenance and optimization of a coverage and capacity of the network. In one embodiment a CCO function can be used to monitor network coverage and capacity performance automatically detect problems in the network and take selected actions or notify the operator when an operator action may be needed to fix the problem. In one embodiment a UE can take MDT measurements and an eNode B can use the MDT measurements to monitor network performance and coordinate a cellular network optimization procedure.

In one embodiment the MDT measurements can be Immediate MDT measurements. An Immediate MDT measurement can be taken when a UE is in a radio resource control RRC connected state. When a UE takes Immediate MDT measurements the MDT measurements can be reported at approximately the time that the MDT measurements are taken. In one embodiment the Immediate MDT measurements can be configured using RRC signaling procedures for radio resource management RRM measurements. The Immediate MDT measurements can be reported using RRM measurement reporting procedures.

In another embodiment the MDT measurements can be Logged MDT measurements. A Logged MDT measurement can be taken when a UE is in an RRC idle state. The UE can receive an MDT configuration using RRC signaling while the UE is in an RRC connected state. The MDT configuration can remain valid during an RRC idle state and or when the UE switches between RRC idle states and RRC connected states. In one embodiment the MDT configuration for the Logged MDT can remain valid while a UE resides in another RAT.

In one embodiment Logged MDT measurements can be taken by collecting MDT measurement data storing the MDT measurement data at the UE and creating a log file of the MDT measurement data at the UE. The log file can be communicated from the UE to the network such as to a node or server in an evolved universal terrestrial radio access network E UTRAN network. In one embodiment the log file can be communicated to the node or server when the UE returns to an RRC connected state and the node or server requests the log file. For example when the UE returns to an RRC connected state the node or server can use RRC message pairs a UE information request and a UE information response to request the log file.

Traditionally to determine coverage holes a UE is configured to continuously report data to the network. The network can then communicate the reported data to a trace collection entity TCE such as an MDT server and the TCE can filter and analyze the data at a later point in time to determine coverage holes.

One advantage of using MDT measurements such as Logged MDT measurements can be to decrease the amount of data communicated from the UE to the network. A decrease in the amount of data can decrease the processing time and processing power needed to determine coverage holes. Another advantage of using MDT measurements such as Logged MDT measurements to determine coverage holes can be to minimize the number and or size of measurements taken to determine coverage holes. When a minimal number and or size of measurements is taken the decreased number and or size of the measurements can increase the battery life of a UE reduce data traffic communicated in a network and reduce the memory storage requirements of the UE to store the MDT measurement such as the Logged MDT measurements.

Traditionally a UE is configured to continuously collect data samples such as downlink signal strength measurements to use for coverage hole determination. In one embodiment the UE can take MDT measurements during selected periods of time. shows MDT measurements taken by UE as it moves through cells on a UE trajectory. The UE can initially take periodical or continuous MDT measurements while the UE is located in Cell A wherein Cell A is a cell with 3GPP LTE coverage and UMTS coverage. When the UE switches to a cell with no 3GPP LTE coverage such as Cell D the UE is configured to pause or stop taking MDT measurements . When the UE moves to another cell with 3GPP LTE coverage such as Cell C the UE is configured to resume periodically or continuously taking MDT measurements . shows MDT measurements taken by UE as it moves through cells on a UE trajectory and a pause or stopping of taking MDT measurements as the UE moves through a 3GPP LTE coverage hole. is the same as in all other regards. In one embodiment the UE can pause taking MDT measurements when the UE leaves a cell with 3GPP LTE coverage and resume taking MDT measurements when the UE returns to the same cell with 3GPP LTE coverage. In another embodiment coverage holes can be detected by identifying a pattern a stopping and resuming of MDT measurements. In another embodiment a size or a boundary of the coverage hole can be determined by the location where the UE stops taking the MDT measurements and the location where the UE resumes taking the MDT measurements.

In another embodiment the UE can take MDT measurements at selected events. illustrates that the UE traveling along a UE trajectory can collect Logged MDT measurements at trigger events and . The trigger events and can include the UE switching from a 3GPP LTE node to a non 3GPP LTE node such as a UTMS node the UE switching from a non 3GPP LTE node to a 3GPP LTE node or the UE leaving a cellular network such as when the UE enters an area not covered by the network and when the UE returns to a cellular network such as when the UE returns to an area covered by the network.

One advantage of collecting Logged MDT measurements at a trigger event can be to reduce or minimize the number of data measurements taken to determine coverage holes. For example when a trigger event does not occur the UE does not take any MDT measurements to determine coverage holes. In another example when a trigger event occurs the UE can take individual MDT measurements when the trigger event occurs.

Another advantage of collecting Logged MDT measurements at a trigger event can be to increase the number of MDT measurements a UE can store in a memory of the UE. For example where the UE takes Logged MDT measurements when a trigger event occurs the UE can store an decreased number of MDT measurements to be used for coverage hole determination compared to continuously taking data measurements for the same period of time and or for the same number of coverage holes.

In one embodiment for a trace based MDT configuration at least one new parameter can be used to configure and control CCO SON operations in a UE i.e. detecting inter RAT cell reselection events. shows sending MDT configuration information from an element manager EM to an eNode B . In one embodiment a trace session activation message can include MDT configuration information. shows that the trace session activation message which includes MDT configuration information can be sent from an EM to a home subscriber server HSS . The HSS stores trace control and configuration information and sends insert subscriber data which includes MDT configuration information to a mobility management entity MME . The MME stores trace control and configuration parameters and sends a trace start message which includes MDT configuration information to the eNode B . In one embodiment the MDT configuration of the trace start message can include S1 application protocol S1AP .

In one embodiment the selected trigger event can be an inter RAT cell reselection trigger event. For example the inter RAT cell reselection trigger event can be when a UE in RRC idle mode changes from a camped normally mode to a camped on any cell mode e.g. the UE moves from an LTE cell to a UMTS cell. In another example the inter RAT cell reselection trigger event can be when a UE in RRC idle mode changes from a camped on any cell mode to a camped normally mode e.g. the UE returns from a non LTE cell to an LTE cell.

In one embodiment the selected trigger event can be an LTE coverage hole detection trigger event. For example the LTE coverage hole detection trigger event can be when a UE in RRC idle mode changes from a camped normally mode to an any cell selection mode e.g. the UE moves from an LTE cell to a coverage hole. For example the LTE coverage hole detection trigger event can be when a UE in an RRC idle mode changes from an any cell selection mode to a camped normally mode e.g. a UE returns to an LTE cell.

In one embodiment coverage holes such as LTE coverage holes can be detected using LTE inter RAT cell reselection measurements including Logged MDT UE measurements such as RSRP measurements and or RSRQ measurements. In one embodiment the RSRP measurements or the RSRQ measurements can include cell identification Cell ID information and or location information. In another embodiment the RSRP measurements or the RSRQ measurements can include trigger event information such as when a UE in RRC idle mode changes from a camped normally mode to a camped on any cell mode or when the UE changes from a camped on any cell mode to a camped normally mode. In one embodiment the UE can communicate location information to an eNode B network node or network server when an LTE inter RAT cell reselection event occurs.

In one embodiment coverage holes such as LTE coverage holes can be detected using LTE coverage hole detection including Logged MDT UE measurements such as an RSRP measurement or an RSRQ measurement. In one embodiment the RSRP measurement or the RSRQ measurement can include cell identification Cell ID information and or location information. In another embodiment the RSRP measurement or the RSRQ measurement can include trigger event information such as when a UE in an RRC idle mode changes from a camped normally mode to an any cell selection mode or when the UE changes from an any cell selection mode to a camped normally mode. In one embodiment the UE can be configured to communicate location information to an eNode B network node or network server when an LTE coverage hole event occurs.

In one embodiment the UE can create an MDT measurement log with location information. In another embodiment the UE can create an MDT measurement log with RF fingerprint information when a cell reselection event CRE is detected. The CRE can include an inter RAT cell reselection trigger event and or LTE coverage hole detection trigger event. The inter RAT cell reselection trigger event can be when a UE in RRC idle mode moves from a 3GPP LTE cell to a non 3GPP LTE cell such as a UMTS cell and vice versa. The LTE coverage hole detection trigger event can occur when a UE in an RRC idle mode moves from a 3GPP LTE cell to a coverage hole and vice versa.

In one embodiment the UE can include trace specific details in the measurement log. The trace specific details can include trace reference information trace recording session reference information or trace collection entity identification TCE Id information. In one embodiment the UE can include CRE details in the measurement log. The CRE details can include a Boolean variable designated as a public land mobile network PLMN change. When the PLMN change Boolean variable is true the PLMN Change indicates a reselection to a different PLMN. When the PLMN change Boolean variable is false the PLMN Change indicates a reselection within the same PLMN. In one embodiment the UE can stop collecting cell reselection event information when a maximum number of GREs has been reached.

Returning to the UE can collect the MDT measurements in the current configuration of the UE while the UE is in an RRC idle mode. When the UE returns to an RRC connected mode the UE can indicate an MDT log availability to the eNode B using an RRC connection setup complete RRC message. When the eNode B receives the RRC connection setup complete RRC message the eNode B can request the MDT log by sending a UE information request RRC message to the UE. In one embodiment the MDT logs can be sent to the eNode in a UE information response RRC message. When the eNode B receives the UE information response RRC message the eNode B can save the received MDT log s and create a trace record.

In one embodiment the trace records can be sent to the TCE using a core network message sequence as shown in . In one embodiment a core network entity such as the TCE EM or eNode B in can be combined with another core network entity or reside in another core network entity.

In one embodiment a time and procedure for when the trace records are sent to the TCE can be vendor specific. In another embodiment when the trace session is deactivated the trace records can be sent to the TCE within a selected time period such as two hours of the trace session deactivation.

Another example provides functionality of computer circuitry of a UE that is operable to connect to a 3GPP LTE cell in a cellular network as shown in the flow chart in . The functionality may be implemented as a method or the functionality may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The computer circuitry can be configured to record at the UE Logged MDT measurements at a selected rate when the UE is in a radio resource control RRC idle mode in a first LTE cell in a cellular network as in block . The computer circuitry can be further configured to identify a change in a UE state of the RRC idle mode as in block . The computer circuitry can also be configured to stop recording the Logged MDT measurements at the UE when the UE state changes from a camped normally UE state to another UE state of the RRC idle mode as in block . The computer circuitry can also be configured to resume recording of the Logged MDT measurements when the UE state changes to the camped normally UE state of the RRC idle mode as in block .

In one embodiment the computer circuitry can be further configured to communicate the Logged MDT measurements to the communications network to enable the communications network to derive spatial information about cell boundaries in the communications network. In another embodiment the MDT measurements are used to determine an LTE coverage hole in the cellular network. In another embodiment the computer circuitry can be further configured to collect the MDT measurements for a CCO SON function to identify the LTE coverage hole in the cellular network. In another embodiment the MDT measurement includes RSRP information RSRQ information Cell Id information location information or time stamp information for an inter RAT handover.

In one embodiment the UE state changes from the camped normally UE state to another UE state at an inter RAT handover from the 3GPP LTE cell to a UTRAN. In another embodiment the computer circuitry can be further configured to stop recording the MDT measurements at the UE when the UE state changes from the camped normally UE state to an any cell selection UE state or a camped on any cell UE state. In another embodiment the computer circuitry can be further configured to stop recording the MDT measurements at the UE when the UE enters a non LTE cell wherein the non LTE cell is a cell in a universal terrestrial radio access network UTRAN or a cell in a global system for mobile communications GSM enhanced data rates for GSM evolution EDGE radio access network GERAN . In another embodiment the UE includes an antenna a camera a touch sensitive display screen a speaker a microphone a graphics processor an application processor internal memory or a non volatile memory port.

In one embodiment the method can further comprise associating each state change recorded by the UE with a location stamp. In another embodiment the location stamp includes global navigation satellite system GNSS information or RF fingerprint information. In another embodiment the ceasing recording of the Logged MDT measurements and the resuming of the Logged MDT measurements is used by the cellular network to derive spatial information about cell boundaries in the communications network. In one embodiment the method can further comprise receiving at the UE a UE information request RRC message from an eNode B requesting the recorded MDT measurements and sending to the eNode B a UE information response RRC message that includes the recorded MDT measurements. In another embodiment the selected rate to record Logged MDT measurements is a continuous a semi continuous or a periodic rate.

In one embodiment the selected rate to record Logged MDT measurements is a single measurement when the UE state changes from a camped normally UE state to an other UE state of the RRC idle mode and a single measurement when the UE state changes from the other UE state to the camped normally UE state of the RRC idle mode. In another embodiment the change in the UE state occurs during an inter RAT cell reselection by the UE. In one embodiment the method can further comprise receiving at the UE a logged measurement configuration radio resource control RRC message from an eNode B. In another embodiment the logged measurement configuration RRC message includes CCO SON control information. In another embodiment the method can further comprise receiving at the UE an inter RAT cell reselection detection RRC message from an eNode B and changing the UE state from the camped normally UE state of the RRC idle mode to the other UE state of the RRC idle mode based on the reselection detection RRC message.

In one embodiment the first cell re selection event is the UE moving from a 3GPP LTE cell to a UMTS cell and the second cell re selection event is the UE moving from the UMTS cell to an other LTE cell. In another embodiment the first cell re selection event is the UE moving from an LTE cell to a coverage hole and the second cell re selection event is the UE moving from the coverage hole to an other LTE cell. In another embodiment the UE can be configured to collect the MDT measurements for a CCO SON function to identify the LTE coverage hole in the cellular network. In one embodiment the coverage hole is an area where a pilot signal strength is below a selected threshold value for the UE to access the cellular network. In another embodiment the UE can further comprise a receiver module for receiving a UE information request from an eNode B requesting the Logged MDT record and a transmitting module for sending a UE information response that includes the Logged MDT record to the eNode B.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The base station and mobile station may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defecto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

