---

title: Semiconductor device design method, system and computer program product
abstract: A semiconductor device design method includes generating a layout of a semiconductor device based on schematic data. The layout includes location data for at least one electrical component. The method includes receiving first voltage data associated with at least one electrical component. The method includes receiving second voltage data based on simulation results for the semiconductor device. The method includes incorporating, based on the location data of the at least one electrical component, the first voltage data or the second voltage data in the layout to generate a modified layout. The first voltage data or the second voltage data being incorporated in at least one marker layer of the modified layout. The method includes performing a voltage-dependent design rule check (VDRC) on the modified layout. The VDRC analyzes spacing rules associated with the at least one electrical component based on the first voltage data or the second voltage data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09501593&OS=09501593&RS=09501593
owner: TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY, LTD.
number: 09501593
owner_city: 
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20160309
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 540 753 filed Nov. 13 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 539 258 filed Jun. 29 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 904 326 issued Dec. 2 2014 which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The recent trend in miniaturizing integrated circuits ICs has resulted in smaller devices which consume less power yet provide more functionality at higher speeds than before. The miniaturization process has also resulted in stricter design and manufacturing specifications. Pre manufacture checking and testing are performed to make sure that a semiconductor device can be made and will function as designed.

It is to be understood that the following disclosure provides many different embodiments or examples for implementing different features of various embodiments. Specific examples of components and arrangements are described below to simplify the present disclosure. An inventive concept may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as being limited to the embodiments set forth herein. It will be apparent however that one or more embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. Like reference numerals in the drawings denote like elements.

Some embodiments describe a semiconductor device design method and system in which voltage data based on a simulation of an operation of a semiconductor device is incorporated in a layout of the semiconductor device. The layout with the incorporated voltage data is used for a voltage dependent design rule check VDRC . A VDRC is a design rule check DRC that is performed to check compliance of the layout with one or more voltage dependent design rules as described herein. As a result it is possible to perform the VDRC with improved accuracy and or efficiency with respect to prior approaches.

At operation a design of a semiconductor device is provided by a circuit designer. In some embodiments the design of the semiconductor device includes a schematic i.e. an electrical diagram of the semiconductor device. In some embodiments the schematic is generated or provided in the form of a schematic netlist such as a Simulation Program with Integrated Circuit Emphasis SPICE netlist. Other data formats for describing the design are usable in some embodiments.

At operation a pre layout simulation is performed e.g. by an EDA tool such as HSPICE available from Synopsys Inc. of Mountain View Calif. on the design to determine whether the design meets a predetermined specification. If the design does not meet the predetermined specification the semiconductor device is redesigned. In some embodiments a SPICE simulation is performed on the SPICE netlist. Other simulation tools are usable in place of or in addition to the SPICE simulation in other embodiments.

At operation a layout of the semiconductor device is generated based on the design. In some embodiments the layout is generated in the form of a Graphic Design System GDS file by an EDA tool such as VIRTUOSO available from Cadence Design Systems Inc. of San Jose Calif. Other tools and or data formats for describing the layout are usable in other embodiments.

At operation a layout versus schematic LVS check is performed. The LVS check is run to ensure that the generated layout corresponds to the design. Specifically an LVS checking tool i.e. an EDA tool such as CALIBRE available from Mentor Graphics Inc. of Wilsonville Oreg. recognizes electrical components as well as connections therebetween from the pattern of the generated layout. The LVS checking tool then generates a layout netlist representing the recognized electrical components and connections. The layout netlist generated from the layout is compared by the LVS checking tool with the schematic netlist of the design. If the two netlists match within a matching tolerance the LVS check is passed. Otherwise correction is made to at least one of the layout or the design by returning the process to operation and or operation .

At operation a design rule check DRC is performed e.g. by an EDA tool such as CALIBRE on the GDS file representing the layout to ensure that the layout satisfies certain manufacturing design rules i.e. to ensure that the semiconductor device can be manufactured. If one or more design rules is violated correction is made to at least one of the layout or the design by returning the process to operation and or operation . Examples of design rules include but are not limited to a width rule which specifies a minimum width of a pattern in the layout a spacing rule which specifies a minimum spacing between adjacent patterns in the layout an area rule which specifies a minimum area of a pattern in the layout etc.

In one or more embodiments at least one of the design rules is voltage dependent. For example a metal to via spacing rule specifies a minimum spacing between a metal pattern and an adjacent via in the layout of the semiconductor device. In some embodiments such a minimum spacing is dependent on a voltage expected or predicted to occur at the metal pattern or the via during an operation of the semiconductor device. Specifically the metal to via spacing rule specifies an increasing series of metal to via spacings corresponding to an increasing series of voltage values or ranges expected or predicted to occur at the metal pattern or the via in operation. For example for a voltage range of 0 V 1.2 V Volt expected or predicted to occur at the metal pattern in operation the metal to via spacing rule specifies a minimum metal to via spacing of 0.05 m micrometer and for a greater voltage range of 1.2 V 1.8 V the metal to via spacing rule specifies a larger minimum metal to via spacing of 0.06 m etc. In some embodiments a minimum spacing between the metal pattern and an adjacent via is dependent on a voltage difference expected or predicted to occur between the metal pattern or the via during an operation of the semiconductor device. Examples of further voltage dependent design rules include but are not limited to metal to metal spacing rule polysilicon to oxide definition PO to OD spacing rule PO to PO spacing rule etc. A DRC that is performed to check compliance of a layout with one or more voltage dependent design rules is referred to as a VDRC. In one or more embodiments VDRCs are performed at advanced nodes such as the 28 nanometer N28 technology node and beyond. In one or more embodiments VDRCs are performed for technology nodes less advanced than N28.

At operation a resistance and capacitance RC extraction is performed e.g. by an EDA tool such as HIPEX available from Silvaco Inc. of Santa Clara Calif. to determine parasitic parameters e.g. parasitic resistance and parasitic capacitance of interconnects in the semiconductor device layout for timing simulations in a subsequent operation. Other verification processes are usable in other embodiments.

At operation a post layout simulation is performed by a simulation tool i.e. an EDA tool to determine taking the extracted parasitic parameters into account whether the layout meets a predetermined specification. If the simulation indicates that the layout does not meet the predetermined specification e.g. if the parasitic parameters cause undesirable delays correction is made to at least one of the layout or the design by returning the process to operation and or operation . Otherwise the layout is passed to manufacture or additional verification processes. In some embodiments the post layout simulation is a HSPICE simulation. Other simulation tools are usable in place of or in addition to HSPICE in some embodiments.

In some embodiments one or more of the above described operations are omitted. For example the RC extraction in operation and the post layout simulation in operation are omitted in one or more embodiments. The pre layout simulation in operation or the post layout simulation in operation is omitted in one or more embodiments.

In some embodiments voltage data for one or more patterns in the layout of a semiconductor device is entered for use in a VDRC as described with respect to operation . The voltage data is enterable manually by a human operator based on for example experience of the operator. Such an approach involves certain risks of data inaccuracy and or human error. As complexity of semiconductor devices increases the amount of data to be entered is also increased which in turn further increases the risk of data inaccuracy and or human error.

Some embodiments therefore provide semiconductor device design methods and systems in which voltage data based on a simulation of an operation of a semiconductor device is automatically incorporated in a layout of the semiconductor device to enable a VDRC with higher accuracy and efficiency than when voltage data is manually entered. In one or more embodiments the voltage data is entirely based on the simulation of the operation of the semiconductor device. In one or more embodiments the voltage data is partially based on the simulation and partially based on user input.

In some embodiments the layout of a semiconductor device includes a plurality of circuit elements and a plurality of nets. A circuit element is an active element or a passive element. Examples of active elements include but are not limited to transistors and diodes. Examples of transistors include but are not limited to metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistors MOSFET complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS transistors bipolar junction transistors BJT high voltage transistors high frequency transistors p channel and or n channel field effect transistors PFETs NFETs etc. FinFETs planar MOS transistors with raised source drains. Examples of passive elements include but are not limited to capacitors inductors fuses and resistors. Examples of nets include but are not limited to vias conductive pads conductive traces and conductive redistribution layers. In one or more embodiments a circuit element or a net includes at least one pattern such as a metal pattern an OD pattern a PO pattern etc. Several circuit elements and or nets which are electrically connected together define a block. In one or more embodiments an electrical component of the layout includes one or more of i at least one portion of a block ii at least one portion of a net or iii at least one portion of a circuit element. For simplicity and unless otherwise specified electrical components in the description below are nets.

The location data extraction tool extracts the location data of at least one electrical component in the layout . In some embodiments the location data associates a name of the electrical component with a physical location of the electrical component in the layout . is a schematic view of a data structure of the location data . For example for a given net the location data includes a name Net ID of the net as indicated at in . The location data further includes a physical location Net Location of the net as indicated at in . In one or more embodiments the physical location includes X Y and Z coordinates of the net. The X and Y coordinates of the net are coordinates of a lower left corner of a pattern of the net in an X Y plane whereas the Z coordinate of the net is an identifier of a layer e.g. a metal layer in which the net is formed. In the specific example of the location data shown in one net has a name A and coordinates X1 Y1 Z1 whereas another net has a name A and coordinates X2 Y2 Z2 . Other approaches for identifying a physical location of an electrical component in the location data are within the scope of various embodiments.

The voltage data extraction tool extracts the voltage data associated with the electrical component based on a simulation of an operation of the semiconductor device. In some embodiments the voltage data associates the name of the electrical component with a voltage value obtained for the electrical component during the simulation. is a schematic view of a data structure of the voltage data . For example for a given net the voltage data includes the name Net ID of the net as indicated at in and a voltage value Net Voltage obtained for the net during the simulation as indicated at in . In the specific example of the voltage data shown in the net having the name A has a simulated voltage value of 0.9 V whereas the other net having the name A has a simulated voltage value of 0.7 V. When more than one voltage values are obtained for the net during the simulation the voltage data extraction tool includes the largest voltage value or the average voltage value as Net Voltage in the voltage data in one or more embodiments. Other arrangements are within the scope of various embodiments.

Input data of the voltage marker generation tool includes the location data and the voltage data . The voltage marker generation tool incorporates the voltage data based on the location data into the layout to generate the modified layout with the incorporated voltage data. For example the voltage marker generation tool maps the location data to the voltage data using for example the name Net ID of the net. The mapped data includes the physical location Net Location of the net and the voltage value Net Voltage of the net. The voltage marker generation tool then adds an additional layer also referred to herein as a marker layer to the layout at a physical location corresponding to the Net Location included in the mapped data. In one or more embodiments the marker layer includes at least one of i the voltage value Net Voltage included in the mapped data or ii a voltage indicator corresponding to the voltage value Net Voltage included in the mapped data.

In some embodiments the voltage indicator is determined based on a voltage value conversion table that correlates a plurality of voltage indicators to a plurality of voltage values. An example voltage value conversion table is illustrated in . The voltage value conversion table includes a plurality of voltage indicators and corresponding voltage values . Each voltage value corresponds to a voltage indicator. For example as shown in line of the voltage value conversion table the voltage value 1.1 V corresponds to the voltage indicator . For a net having a voltage value of 1.1 V obtained during the simulation voltage data including at least one of i the voltage value 1.1 V or ii the voltage indicator is incorporated in the modified layout .

In one or more embodiments a voltage value for example 1.1 V is incorporated in the modified layout . A VDRC tool reads the modified layout which includes the incorporated voltage data. The VDRC tool then uses the read voltage value 1.1 V incorporated in a particular net for checking at least one voltage dependent design rule related to the net. Assuming that the voltage dependent design rule applicable to the net is the above described metal to via spacing rule that specifies a minimum metal to via spacing of 0.05 m for a voltage range of 0 V 1.2 V the VDRC tool then checks if the net associated with the read voltage value 1.1 V which is within the voltage range of 0 1.2 V of the voltage dependent design rule satisfies the requirement of a minimum metal to via spacing of 0.05 m.

In one or more embodiments a voltage indicator for example is incorporated in the modified layout . The VDRC tool reads the modified layout which includes the incorporated voltage data. The VDRC tool reads the marker layer associated with a particular net and recognizes that the voltage data associated with the net includes a voltage indicator or data type of . The VDRC tool then refers to the voltage value conversion table to obtain the corresponding voltage value of 1.1 V. The VDRC tool then uses the obtained voltage value 1.1 V for checking at least one voltage dependent design rule related to the net as described above. In one or more embodiments the voltage value conversion table is transmitted from the semiconductor device design system to the VDRC tool . Alternatively or additionally the VDRC tool obtains the voltage value conversion table independent of the semiconductor device design system . In one or more embodiments the modified layout is outputted in the form of a GDS II file.

Besides voltage indicators which are intended to be read by the VDRC tool e.g. a computer executing particular instructions the voltage value conversion table further defines another group of voltage indicators which are intended to be understandable by a human operator. Specifically the voltage indicators include human friendly voltage indicators such as GND ground CORE IO input output IO IO IO and IO. The voltage values correspond to the voltage indicators . For example as shown in the line of the voltage value conversion table the voltage value 1.1 V corresponds to the voltage indicator IO. In the specific example voltage value conversion table more than one voltage values correspond to a single voltage indicator . Specifically a plurality of voltage values 0.0 V 0.9 V corresponds to a single voltage indicator CORE. In some embodiments the voltage indicators are useful when presented together with the modified layout to a human operator.

In some embodiments the representation of the incorporated voltage data in the schematic or the schematic as described with respect to is also applicable to the modified layout . Specifically the modified layout is outputted in a form in which the incorporated voltage data associated with one or more nets is presented e.g. overlaid at the corresponding patterns of the nets. In some embodiments at least one of i the group of voltage indicators intended to be read by a machine or ii the group voltage indicators intended to be read by a human operator is omitted from the voltage value conversion table . Other arrangements of the incorporated voltage data in the modified layout are within the scope of various embodiments. In one or more embodiments the voltage value conversion table is inputted into the semiconductor device design system via a technology file which contains besides the voltage value conversion table further technology specific and or process specific information for use by the voltage marker generation tool . In one or more embodiments the voltage value conversion table is included in the semiconductor device design system .

In the foregoing description the voltage data associated with a net and incorporated in the modified layout includes a voltage value obtained for the net during a simulation of an operation the semiconductor device. The incorporated voltage value is used by the VDRC tool in a voltage dependent design rule that specifies for example a minimum value of a spacing S between the net also referred to herein as Net A and an adjacent net also referred to herein as Net B in the layout of the semiconductor device. The minimum value of the spacing S is specified based on the simulated voltage value at either Net A or Net B. An example of such a voltage dependent design rule also referred to herein as the Voltage rule is given in Table I below.

As indicated in Table I when the voltage Vor Vin a range of 0 V 2.5 V is obtained from the simulation for the Net A or Net B the Voltage rule specifies a spacing S of at least 0.06 m between the Net A and Net B. When the voltage Vor Vis in a greater voltage range of 2.5 V 3.3 V the Voltage rule specifies a larger spacing S of at least 0.07 m etc. In one or more embodiments when Vis different from V the maximum value of Vand Vis used to specify the minimum value of the spacing S between the Net A and the Net B.

In the above described Voltage rule the minimum value of the spacing S is determined based on the voltage value at either the Net A or the Net B. In some embodiments the VDRC tool uses a voltage dependent design rule that specifies a minimum value of the spacing S based on a voltage difference between the Net A and Net B. An example of such a voltage dependent design rule also referred to herein as the Delta Voltage rule is given in Table II below.

As indicated in Table II when the voltage difference V between the Net A and Net B is not greater than 2.5 V the Delta Voltage rule specifies a spacing S of at least 0.06 m between the Net A and Net B. When the voltage difference V between the Net A and Net B is greater than 2.5 V the Delta Voltage rule specifies a spacing S of at least 0.07 m between the Net A and Net B. In one or more embodiments the voltage difference V is determined based on the voltages Vand Vof the Net A and the Net B i.e. V V V . In one or more embodiments when multiple voltage values are obtained from the simulation for either or both of the Net A and the Net B the voltage difference V is determined as the maximum possible voltage difference between the Net A and the Net B. For example max where Vis a maximum value of V Vis a minimum value of V Vis a maximum value of Vand Vis a minimum value of V.

In some situations the Voltage rule and the Delta Voltage rule specify the same minimum value of the spacing S between the Net A and the Net B. An example situation is given below in Table III 

As indicated in Table III in accordance with the Voltage rule described with respect to Table I the spacing S between Net A and Net B is specified to be at least 0.07 m based on the maximum value of Vand V i.e. Vwhich is 3.3 V. In accordance with the Delta Voltage rule described with respect to Table II the spacing S between Net A and Net B is specified to be at least 0.07 m based on the maximum possible voltage difference between the Net A and the Net B i.e. V V 3.3 V 0 V 3.3 V. In this situation the Voltage rule and the Delta Voltage rule specify the same minimum value of the spacing S. In other words the Voltage rule and the Delta Voltage rule are equally accurate.

In some situations however the Delta Voltage rule is more accurate than the Voltage rule because the voltage difference V between the Net A and Net B is a better factor for determining the spacing S between the Net A and Net B than the voltage value at either the Net A or the Net B. An example situation is given below in Table IV 

As indicated in Table IV in accordance with the Voltage rule described with respect to Table I the spacing S between Net A and Net B is specified to be at least 0.07 m based on the maximum value of Vand V i.e. Vwhich is 3.3 V. In accordance with the Delta Voltage rule described with respect to Table II the spacing S between Net A and Net B is specified to be at least 0.06 m based on the maximum possible voltage difference between the Net A and the Net B i.e. V V 3.3 V 1.4 V 1.9 V. In this situation the Voltage rule and the Delta Voltage rule specify different minimum values of the spacing S. If the spacing S between the Net A and Net B is for example 0.065 m the Voltage rule will issue an error because the minimum spacing of 0.07 m specified by the Voltage rule is not met. Such an error in this specific situation is a false alarm because the voltage difference V between the Net A and Net B has a maximum value of 1.9 V which permits forming the Net A and Net B at a closer spacing i.e. as small as 0.06 m pursuant to the Delta Voltage rule. In other words the Delta Voltage rule is more accurate than the Voltage rule in that the Delta Voltage rule avoids false alarms in certain situations.

As indicated in Table V in accordance with the Voltage rule described with respect to Table I the spacing S between Net A and Net B is specified to be at least 0.06 m based on the maximum value of Vand V i.e. Vwhich is 1.8 V. In accordance with the Delta Voltage rule described with respect to Table II the spacing S between Net A and Net B is specified to be at least 0.07 m based on the maximum possible voltage difference between the Net A and the Net B i.e. V V 1.8 V 0.8 V 2.6 V. In this situation the Voltage rule and the Delta Voltage rule specify different minimum values of the spacing S. If the spacing S between the Net A and Net B is for example 0.065 m the Voltage rule will not issue an error because the minimum spacing of 0.06 m specified by the Voltage rule is met. However in this specific situation an error exists because the voltage difference V between the Net A and Net B has a maximum value of 2.6 V which does not permit forming the Net A and Net B at a spacing closer than 0.07 m pursuant to the Delta Voltage rule. The Voltage rule misses the error. The Delta Voltage rule in contrast will issue an error in this specific situation. In other words the Delta Voltage rule is more accurate than the Voltage rule in that the Delta Voltage rule avoids missing errors in certain situations.

In some embodiments to enable the VDRC tool to perform the Delta Voltage rule the voltage marker generation tool incorporates for at least one net in the modified layout a maximum voltage value and a minimum voltage value associated with the at least one net. The maximum voltage value and the minimum voltage value are included in the voltage data extracted by the voltage data extraction tool . In one or more embodiments the maximum voltage value is the highest voltage value among all voltage values associated with the at least one net and or the minimum voltage value is the lowest voltage value among all voltage values associated with the at least one net.

Each of the text layers includes a first part with location data and a second part with voltage data. For example the text layer includes a first part with location data and a second part with voltage data the text layer includes a first part with location data and a second part with voltage data the text layer includes a first part with location data and a second part with voltage data and the text layer includes a first part with location data and a second part with voltage data. In some embodiments the location data in the first part of each text layer includes coordinates of a point or a region within the corresponding net. For example the first part of the text layer includes coordinates X3 Y3 Z3 of a region within the corresponding Net A the first part of the text layer includes coordinates X4 Y4 Z4 of a region within the corresponding Net A the first part of the text layer includes coordinates X5 Y5 Z5 of a region within the corresponding Net B and the first part of the text layer includes coordinates X6 Y6 Z6 of a region within the corresponding Net B. In one or more embodiment the regions are at the same layer in the layout of the semiconductor device i.e. Z3 Z4 . In one or more embodiments the regions are the same region or overlap each other. In one or more embodiment the regions are at the same layer in the layout of the semiconductor device i.e. Z5 Z6 . In one or more embodiments the regions are the same region or overlap each other.

The voltage data in the second part of each text layer includes a voltage value obtained for the corresponding net from a simulation of the operation of the semiconductor device. In one or more embodiments the second part of each text layer further includes a voltage indicator indicating whether the voltage value is a maximum or a minimum voltage value. For example the second part of the text layer includes a voltage value 1.8 V and a voltage indicator indicating that the voltage value of 1.8 V is a maximum voltage value obtained for the corresponding Net A. The second part of the text layer includes a voltage value 0 V and a voltage indicator indicating that the voltage value of 0 V is a minimum voltage value obtained for the corresponding Net A. The second part of the text layer includes a voltage value 3.3 V and a voltage indicator indicating that the voltage value of 3.3 V is a maximum voltage value obtained for the corresponding Net B. The second part of the text layer includes a voltage value 0 V and a voltage indicator indicating that the voltage value of 0 V is a minimum voltage value obtained for the corresponding Net B.

In some embodiments the VDRC tool reads the text layer in the portion of the modified layout . The VDRC tool determines that the location data included in the first part of the text layer indicates a region within the Net A and the VDRC tool determines that the text layer is associated with the Net A. The VDRC tool further determines that the voltage data included in the second part of the text layer indicates a maximum voltage value of 1.8 V and the VDRC tool determines that the maximum voltage value of the Net A is 1.8 V. Similarly the VDRC tool reads the text layers in the portion of the modified layout and determines that the minimum voltage value of the Net A is 0 V the maximum voltage value of the Net B is 3.3 V and the minimum voltage value of the Net B is 0 V. The VDRC tool further determines the voltage difference V between the Net A and Net B as 3.3 V as described with respect to Table III. The VDRC tool then uses the determined voltage difference V in a Delta Voltage rule.

To generate the modified layout for use in the VDRC tool as described above the semiconductor device design system receives input data from various tools and or operations for example as described with respect to . An example arrangement of tools and or operations that in accordance with some embodiments provide data for the semiconductor device design system will be described with respect to .

In a schematic of the semiconductor device to be manufactured is generated or provided for example in the form of a schematic netlist as described with respect to operation in . The schematic is then provided to a layout generator which generates the layout from the schematic as described with respect to operation in . The schematic is also provided to a simulation tool which performs a pre layout simulation on the schematic netlist as described with respect to operation in . The simulation tool outputs a simulation result with voltage information. In one or more embodiments the simulation result includes a database or at least one file that correlates the names or other identifying information of a plurality of nets with voltage values obtained at the nets during the simulation. The simulation result serves as an input for the voltage data extraction tool which extracts therefrom the voltage data to be incorporated in the layout .

In one or more embodiments the simulation tool is a post layout simulation tool which performs the simulation on the layout rather than on the schematic as described with respect to operation in . The simulation result in this case is a post layout simulation result which also includes a database or at least one file that correlates the names or other identifying information of a plurality of nets with voltage values obtained at the nets during the post layout simulation. The post layout simulation result serves as an input for the voltage data extraction tool . In one or more embodiments the simulation tool which is a pre layout simulation or a post layout simulation tool is included in the semiconductor device design system .

The layout is inputted into an LVS tool which performs an LVS check as described with respect to operation in . In some embodiments the layout is inputted into the LVS tool in the form of a GDS II file. The LVS tool refers to the GDS II file representing the layout a LVS deck and a circuit description language CDL netlist and generates one or more databases also referred to as SVDB in which circuit elements and nets in the schematic are linked to corresponding patterns in the layout . The SVDB also include coordinates of the pattern or patterns in the layout that correspond to a circuit element or net in the schematic . As a result the SVDB provides location information which correlates the names or other identifying information of a plurality of nets in the schematic with the corresponding coordinates in the layout . The location information serves as an input for the location data extraction tool which extracts therefrom the location data to be used for incorporating the voltage data in the layout . In one or more embodiments the LVS tool is included in the semiconductor device design system . In one or more embodiments the location information is obtainable by one or more other tools without using the LVS tool . Such other tools are included in the semiconductor device design system in accordance with some embodiments.

In some embodiments the schematic is also inputted into the semiconductor device design system . The schematic is used in one or more embodiments to generate a schematic with the incorporated voltage data for use by a human operator as described with respect to the schematic and or the schematic in . For example at least one of the voltage marker generation tool the voltage data extraction tool or another tool of the semiconductor device design system incorporates the voltage data in the schematic to obtain the schematic with the incorporated voltage data. Additionally or alternatively the schematic is used in one or more embodiments to generate at least one of the layout or the location data in the semiconductor device design system . Other arrangements are within the scope of various embodiments.

The semiconductor device design system A further includes a layout extraction tool which generates a layout database from the layout . In one or more embodiments the layout is inputted into the semiconductor device design system A in the form of a GDS II file. The GDS II file is read by the layout extraction tool to generate the layout database which includes descriptions and coordinates of various patterns in the layout . The layout database is accessed by the voltage marker generation tool to incorporate the voltage data into the layout at the pattern or patterns with the coordinates corresponding to the location data . As a result the modified layout with the incorporated voltage data is outputted. In one or more embodiments the layout extraction tool is implemented by a layout editor tool such as VIRTUOSO. Other layout extraction tools are within the scope of various embodiments.

The semiconductor device design system B includes a net block coordinates extraction engine and a net block voltage extraction engine corresponding to the net voltage extraction engine and the net coordinates extraction engine of the semiconductor device design system A respectively. The net block coordinates extraction engine is configured to extract coordinates of one or more nets and or one or more blocks of the layout from the LVS database . Likewise the net block voltage extraction engine is configured to extract voltage data of one or more nets and or one or more blocks from the simulation results .

Input data of the net block voltage extraction engine further includes user input in the form of a specified net block voltage value information which specifies one or more voltage values for one or more nets and or one or more blocks. When the simulation results include one or more simulated voltage values for the same net or block specified in the specified net block voltage value information the net block voltage extraction engine extracts the largest voltage value among all the simulated and user specified voltage values for that net or block as the voltage data to be incorporated in the layout . Other arrangements are within the scope of various embodiments. The remaining structure and or operation of the semiconductor device design system B is are similar to those of the semiconductor device design system A.

In some embodiments any one of the semiconductor device design systems A B C D or E is implemented by at least one computer system as described herein below with respect to . At least one processor of such a computer system is hardwired and or programmed to function as one or more of the tools or engines of the corresponding semiconductor device design system A B C D or E. In one or more embodiments any one of the semiconductor device design systems A B C D or E is implemented by several computer systems. In one or more embodiments data exchange between the computer systems occurs over a network that connects the computer systems. Other modes of data exchange such as emails external hard drives are usable in some embodiments. At least one processor of each computer system is hardwired and or programmed to function as one or more of the tools or engines of the corresponding semiconductor device design system A B C D or E.

In some embodiments by incorporating voltage data obtained from a simulation of an operation of a semiconductor device into the layout of the semiconductor device one or more voltage dependent operations such as a VDRC are performed with higher accuracy and efficiency than when voltage data is entered manually and or based on human prediction or experience. As a result the cycle time is reduced and human errors are minimized. In some embodiments the whole chip coverage is obtainable in a VDRC or another voltage dependent operation as compared to a limited number of interested nets when voltage data is manually entered and or based on human prediction or experience. A schematic with the incorporated voltage data also serves as a useful visual tool for a human operator such as a circuit designer in design correction and or improvement.

At operation location data of at least one electrical component in a layout of a semiconductor device is extracted. For example location data or of at least one electrical component in a layout or of a semiconductor device is extracted as described with respect to or any one of .

At operation voltage data based on a simulation of an operation of the semiconductor device and associated with the at least one electrical component is extracted. For example voltage data or based on a simulation of an operation of the semiconductor device and associated with the at least one electrical component is extracted as described with respect to or any one of .

At operation based on the extracted location data the extracted voltage data is incorporated in the layout to generate a modified layout of the semiconductor device. For example based on the extracted location data or the extracted voltage data or is incorporated in the layout or to generate a modified layout or of the semiconductor device as described with respect to or any one of .

The memory comprises in some embodiments a random access memory RAM and or other dynamic storage device and or read only memory ROM and or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing data and or instructions to be executed by the processor e.g. kernel userspace portions of the kernel and or the userspace and components thereof. The memory is also used in some embodiments for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by the processor .

In some embodiments a storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk is coupled to the bus for storing data and or instructions e.g. kernel userspace etc. The I O device comprises an input device an output device and or a combined input output device for enabling user interaction with the system . An input device comprises for example a keyboard keypad mouse trackball trackpad and or cursor direction keys for communicating information and commands to the processor . An output device comprises for example a display a printer a voice synthesizer etc. for communicating information to a user.

In some embodiments one or more operations and or functionality of the tools and or engines and or systems described with respect to are realized by the processor which is programmed for performing such operations and or functionality. One or more of the memory the I F the storage the I O device the hardware components and the bus is are operable to receive instructions data design rules netlists layouts models and or other parameters for processing by the processor .

In some embodiments one or more of the operations and or functionality of the tools and or engines and or systems described with respect to is are implemented by specifically configured hardware e.g. by one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs which is are included separate from or in lieu of the processor . Some embodiments incorporate more than one of the described operations and or functionality in a single ASIC.

In some embodiments the operations and or functionality are realized as functions of a program stored in a non transitory computer readable recording medium. Examples of a non transitory computer readable recording medium include but are not limited to external removable and or internal built in storage or memory unit e.g. one or more of an optical disk such as a DVD a magnetic disk such as a hard disk a semiconductor memory such as a ROM a RAM a memory card and the like.

The above methods include example operations but they are not necessarily required to be performed in the order shown. Operations may be added replaced changed order and or eliminated as appropriate in accordance with the spirit and scope of embodiments of the disclosure. Embodiments that combine different features and or different embodiments are within the scope of the disclosure and will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art after reviewing this disclosure.

One aspect of this description relates to a semiconductor device design method. The method includes generating a layout of a semiconductor device based on schematic data wherein the layout includes location data for at least one electrical component in the layout. The method further includes receiving first voltage data associated with at least one electrical component in the layout. The method further includes receiving second voltage data based on simulation results of an operation of the semiconductor device. The method further includes incorporating based on the location data of the at least one electrical component the first voltage data or the second voltage data in the layout to generate a modified layout of the semiconductor device the first voltage data or the second voltage data being incorporated in at least one marker layer of the modified layout. The method further includes performing a voltage dependent design rule check VDRC on the modified layout wherein the VDRC analyzes spacing rules associated with the at least one electrical component based on the first voltage data or the second voltage data. One or more operations of the method are performed by at least one processor.

Another aspect of this description relates to a semiconductor device design system. The semiconductor device design system includes an automatic placement and routing APR engine configured to generate a layout including location data for at least one electrical component of a semiconductor device in the layout. The semiconductor device design system further includes a voltage extraction engine configured to receive first voltage data associated with at least one electrical component to receive second voltage data based on simulation results of an operation of the semiconductor device and to generate combined voltage data based on a comparison of the first voltage data and the second voltage data. The semiconductor device design system further includes a voltage marker generation tool configured to generate a modified layout based on the layout and the combined voltage data. The semiconductor device design system further includes a voltage dependent design rule check VDRC tool configured to analyze spacing rules associated with the at least one electrical component based on the combined voltage data At least one of the APR engine the voltage extraction engine the voltage marker generation tool or the VDRC tool comprises a processor.

Still another aspect of this description relates to a computer program product. The computer program product includes a non transitory computer readable medium containing instructions therein which when executed by at least one processor cause the at least one processor to generate a layout of a semiconductor device based on schematic data wherein the layout includes location data for at least one electrical component in the layout. The at least one processor is further caused to receive first voltage data associated with at least one electrical component and receive second voltage data based on simulation results of an operation of the semiconductor device. The at least one processor is further caused to incorporate in at least one marker layer the first voltage data or the second voltage data into the layout based on the location data of the at least one electrical component to generate a modified layout of the semiconductor device. The at least one processor is further caused to perform a voltage dependent design rule check VDRC on the modified layout wherein the VDRC analyzes spacing rules associated with the at least one electrical component based on the first voltage data or the second voltage data.

It will be readily seen by one of ordinary skill in the art that one or more of the disclosed embodiments fulfill one or more of the advantages set forth above. After reading the foregoing specification one of ordinary skill will be able to affect various changes substitutions of equivalents and various other embodiments as broadly disclosed herein. It is therefore intended that the protection granted hereon be limited only by the definition contained in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

