---

title: Method for controlling data acquisition for a plurality of field devices
abstract: A method for online licensing of field devices using an enterprise server with a processor and a data storage, which communicate via a network to the field devices optionally through at least one intelligent cryptographic module. The method receives a request for a license online from a client device for bidirectional communication between field devices and the enterprise server. The method generates a license and a symmetric encryption key. The method generates an object with a communication protocol of the field devices, and a primary communication path. The object contains a schedule configuration and time synchronization configuration and settings. The method then initiates communication, provides a secondary communication path if the primary communication paths fails, and simultaneously collects data by type and value from the field devices and publishes a report.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09596090&OS=09596090&RS=09596090
owner: DJ INVENTIONS, LLC
number: 09596090
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160426
---
The present application is a Continuation in Part of application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 590 271 filed on Aug. 21 2012 which is a Continuation in Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 231 853 filed on Sep. 13 2011 which is a Continuation in Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 098 545 filed on Apr. 7 2008 which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 019 546 on Sep. 13 2011 which is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 345 759 filed Feb. 2 2006 now abandoned which claims priority to and the benefit of US Provisional Patent Application No. 60 649 795 filed on Feb. 3 2005. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 098 545 filed on Apr. 7 2008 is a Continuation in Part of Ser. No. 11 050 170 filed on Feb. 3 2005 which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 587 481 on Sep. 8 2009 and is a Continuation in Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 050 516 filed on Feb. 3 2005 now abandoned and both are Continuation in Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 826 578 filed on Apr. 5 2001 which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 950 851 on Sep. 27 2005. These references are incorporated herein in their entirety.

The present embodiments generally relate to a method for online licensing of field devices while controlling data acquisition using a communication and configuration system with an enterprise server and object generated by the enterprise server further using a symmetric encryption key.

The automation industry has had major developments in the implementation of a communication and configuration system or a supervisory control and data acquisition SCADA monitoring and control system.

A need has long existed for a method for online licensing of field devices which uses small personal computers or PCs to communicate with a communication and configuration system or a supervisory control and data acquisition system that has cryptographic modules and encrypts securely while performing online licensing.

Before explaining the present method in detail it is to be understood that the method is not limited to the particular embodiments and that it can be practiced or carried out in various ways.

A vital part of any system utilized for process control data acquisition or alarm detection and notification is the initial communication and periodic point to point communication of the system including the process input values the database the displays and the like. Such a communication procedure is associated with a SCADA system which in its most generic definition is essentially a process control system.

The components of a typical SCADA system can include a SCADA device and one or more remotely connected intelligent electronic devices which can be field devices or an intelligent cryptographic module.

As used herein the term SCADA device can be a collection of electronic equipment including a computer based controller which can be a server also termed the enterprise server that is used to remotely monitor communication and or control the operation of one or more remote terminal units and remote sensing devices. In general the enterprise server is remotely located away from the sensors collecting data or metering data thereby presenting many SCADA system communication difficulties.

Communication for a SCADA system traditionally has been extremely time consuming and labor intensive and has not involved cryptographic modules with control software that allows a control system to add or delete field devices and license additional field devices simultaneously while continuing to operate the entire SCADA system.

A need exists for method of online licensing using a SCADA system with a cryptographic module and an ability to license automatically adding and deleting field devices while the entire system continues to run in which the field devices are attached while maintaining highly accurate and detailed communication procedures and additionally allowing online configuration and reconfiguration of the field devices from the SCADA controller.

The term SCADA as used herein can refer to a supervisory control and data acquisition system or a communication and configuration system. The term ARME as used herein can refer to the configuration or maintenance tool for the system. ARME is an OPC client that communicates through the AES which allows various devices to be remotely reconfigured after deployment. OPC MESSENGER combines with the AES to provide a data acquisition front end for relational databases. The term OPC MESSENGER as used herein can refer to an AUTOS OL Connection which is a data acquisition front end connection for databases. The term GEL as used herein can refer to a generic encapsulation layer.

The present embodiments generally relate to a method for controlling data acquisition using a communication and configuration system. The system for controlling data acquisition using a communication and configuration system can include an enterprise server with online configurable communication server software.

The method can use a configurable server interface that communicates with an enterprise server with a processor and a data storage.

The term data storage refers to a non transitory computer readable medium such as a hard disk drive solid state drive flash drive tape drive and the like. The term non transitory computer readable medium excludes any transitory signals but includes any non transitory data storage circuitry e.g. buffers cache and queues within transceivers of transitory signals.

In addition the method can use a configurable protocol interface and a configurable communication connection.

The method can include the data storage of the enterprise server which can have computer instructions to use integrated online licensing software to create a license for the online configurable communication server software simultaneously while the online configurable communication server software monitors commands and controls at least one device cryptographic module or combinations thereof without stopping operational functions of the enterprise server online devices online cryptographic modules or combinations of those elements.

Communication software links the enterprise server with a plurality of devices cryptographic modules or combinations thereof and configuration software in the enterprise server for configuring and reconfiguring one or more of the devices the cryptographic modules one or more remote terminal units in the devices or combinations thereof while allowing the overall system to continue to operate.

The communication software can be adapted to simultaneously handle multiple types of telemetry and different device protocols associated with the devices cryptographic modules or combinations thereof.

The device protocols usable in the method can include AINet BSAP Camp CANet CSNet DF1 DNP3 DSI Eagle FlowAutomation GASMicro HP48000 impacc Mercor Modbus Multilin Opto Pccu ReynoldsCDR ReynoldsLVC ROC S3 and TGP.

The method for controlling data acquisition can use a communication and configuration system which can be a supervisory control and data acquisition system.

The communication and configuration system can include an enterprise server with an online configurable communication server software with an integrated online licensing software running on random access memory in a computer for monitoring at least one device a cryptographic module or combinations thereof while simultaneously commanding controlling and online configuring the at least one device without stopping operational functions of the enterprise server.

The enterprise server can include a configurable server interface for receiving a client request from a client application requesting status and measurement data on the at least one device the cryptographic module or combinations thereof without stopping operational functions of the enterprise server.

The enterprise server can also include a configurable protocol interface in communication with the online configurable communication server software for building a message for each device the cryptographic module or combinations thereof. The configurable protocol interface can use at least one of a plurality of device protocols for each device or cryptographic module protocols without stopping operational functions of the enterprise server.

The method can have a configurable connection interface within the enterprise server for connecting to each device cryptographic module or combinations thereof. The configurable connection interface can enable a message to be transmitted to each device cryptographic module or combinations thereof and receive status and measurement data from each device each cryptographic module or combinations thereof and transmit the status and measurement data to the configurable server interface using at least one of the plurality of device protocols without stopping operational functions of the enterprise server.

The enterprise server can use the integrated online licensing software to automatically create a customized license for the online configurable communication server software simultaneously while the online configurable communication server software monitors commands and controls at least one device cryptographic module or combinations thereof without stopping operational functions of the enterprise server at least one device the cryptographic module or combinations thereof.

The enterprise server can connect to a secondary device within each device. The secondary device can be a supervisory control and data acquisition SCADA device a metering device a programmable logic controller PLC a programmable controller a remote terminal unit or combinations thereof.

The method can include using the enterprise server which contains configuration software for configuring and reconfiguring one or more of the devices the cryptographic modules the remote terminal units or combinations thereof. The configuration software can provide commands communicated while allowing the system to continue to operate.

The RTU can include a sensor that continuously collects information about oceanic conditions. Examples of sensors include pressure sensors temperature sensors salinity sensors transducers anemometers and combinations thereof.

The remote terminal can include a state sensor that measures changes in state of a target of the device.

The remote terminal can include computer instructions for transmission of measured physical characteristics by one of the devices measured changes in state by one of the devices or combinations thereof via telemetry using a network.

The RTU can further include an analog to digital converter ADC for measuring the physical data collected by the sensors and can convert the information into a digital representation of the collected oceanic information.

The RTU can include a memory area for storing digital representations and a processor in communication with the ADC and the memory area.

The processor can operate using digital representations according to a predetermined function. The processor can selectively move the digital representations to the memory area.

The RTU can include a command register for storing communication commands. The command register can be in communication with the processor. The processor can move the digital representations to the memory area when the command register contains an enabling communication command.

A bidirectional port can be included in the RTU and in communication with the AES and enterprise server for transmitting the digital representations to the enterprise server from the RTU via the AES.

The method can use communications software AES that can link the enterprise server to the RTU in one or more devices. The communication software can be used to link a second RTU of a secondary device to the first RTU of a first device in an embodiment. Any or all of the RTUs can be in communication with the communication software AES in various known manners for example by satellite signals acoustic signals radio frequency or combinations thereof .

In an embodiment the AES can provide the RTU with simulation or diagnostic instructions so the RTU can run tests without the need for an operator or expensive test equipment to inject a new configuration of a RTU into the SCADA system. Moreover each RTU can continue to monitor while the simulation or diagnostic is running.

Configuration of the RTU can occur by use of a configuration tool ARME that can reside on the computers or on the enterprise server.

According to the method the RTU can run diagnostic tests as directed by the enterprise servers based on instruction via the AES.

The communication software can be adapted to simultaneously handle multiple types of telemetry for communication with different devices the cryptographic module and other metering devices. For instance devices can be SCADA devices metering devices a programmable logic controller a different programmable controller a physical sensor a state sensor or a second remote terminal unit.

The communication software can contain computer instructions for transmitting the data from these devices over a network. The remote terminal unit can have similar computer instructions in the data storage of the remote terminal unit for transmitting data from the device to the one or more enterprise servers.

The communication software can be adapted to simultaneously handle different communication protocols which are referred to herein as device protocols of various devices from different manufactures.

In embodiments the communication software can have a feature such as computer instructions to initiate an alarm when the information collected by the sensors in the RTU of a device signifies the device is about to exceed preset values.

The method can include using communication software which can permit continuous communication for 24 hours a day 7 days a week with the devices.

The communication software can allow a second enterprise server to be added or removed from the SCADA system while the SCADA system with the first enterprise server continues to operate.

The configuration software referred to herein as ARME can be added for configuring and reconfiguring the RTU the cryptographic module or both simultaneously while the overall SCADA system continues to operate adding devices creating automatic custom licenses deleting devices monitoring and tracking data.

Other forms of communication can also be possible including acoustic signal radio frequency or combinations thereof.

The communication software can be adapted to simultaneously handle multiple types of telemetry and different protocols of other devices from various manufacturers.

Turning now to the Figures shows a schematic of a communication and configuration equipment according to one or more embodiments of the method.

The method can use communication and configuration equipment and an enterprise server which can receive requests for a license from a client device to add or delete at least one field device and . The field devices can collect and transmit status and measurement data.

Status and measurement data can include but is not limited to current operational information on at least one field device operational information received from at least one field device or combinations thereof. The operational information from one or more field devices from one or more cryptographic modules or combinations thereof. The operational information can include but is not limited to pressure data temperature data flow data maintenance repair data battery limit data entry detection information for an enclosure leak detection data equipment run times plant conditions and combinations thereof.

The enterprise server can collect data and send messages and commands to at least one of the field devices.

The enterprise server can have a processor in communication with a network and a data storage in communication with the processor.

The processor can be a computer a laptop a tablet computer a smart phone or cellular phone or any known device in the industry capable of bidirectional communication over a network.

In embodiments the method can include using the client device for communication with the network . The client device can be a computer a laptop a smart phone or a cellular phone a tablet computer or any similar device known in the industry for communication and processing data.

In embodiments the network can be a satellite network a global communication network a cellular network an acoustic signal network a radio frequency network a known network in the industry or combinations thereof.

The client device can have a client device processor in communication with a client device data storage . Client software can reside in the client device data storage which can enable a human machine interface to communicate with the enterprise server . In embodiments alarms can be stored in the client device data storage and presented to a display of the client device.

The method can include connecting a plurality of field devices with the network . Each field device can have a communication protocol 

In embodiments the plurality of field devices can be monitoring devices detection devices metering devices tracking devices bar code readers remote terminal units programmable logic controllers wearable computers and physical property sensors.

For implementation of the method a usable enterprise server can have random access memory as the data storage. The random access memory can be in a computer that acts as the processor. The random access memory can store the computer instructions described herein.

The enterprise server can monitor the plurality of field devices and use and monitor or just monitor at least one intelligent cryptographic module .

In embodiments of the method the enterprise server can be in communication with a second enterprise server. The enterprise servers can be in parallel or series with one another.

The enterprise server can communicate with a metering device a programmable logic controller PLC a programmable controller a remote terminal unit a state sensor or combinations thereof.

In embodiments multiple enterprise servers can also communicate with the plurality of field devices simultaneously.

In embodiments of the method the enterprise servers can communicate directly or indirectly with the plurality of field devices . The plurality of field devices and can have a second type of device within it. The second type of device can be a meter a PLC a supervisory control and data acquisition device or a remote terminal unit. For example the second type of device can be a supervisory control and data acquisition device.

In embodiments a first enterprise server can communicate with field devices and at least one intelligent cryptographic module while a second enterprise server is added to or removed from the system.

The at least one intelligent cryptographic module can communicate with the plurality of field devices providing a first encrypted communication link between the at least one field device and the intelligent cryptographic module and a second encrypted communication link between the intelligent cryptographic module and the enterprise server.

In embodiments the at least one intelligent cryptographic module can provide authentication of the plurality of field devices by exchanging ANSI X.509 certificates between each of the plurality of field devices and an object generating a public key to authenticate an owner of an ANSI X.509 certificate generating a symmetric session key for session initiation and continuing communication between each of the plurality of field devices and the enterprise server through at least one intelligent cryptographic module .

In embodiments the at least one intelligent cryptographic module can be a secure enclosure with a cryptographic module processor disposed within the secure enclosure. A cryptographic module data storage can be in communication with the cryptographic module processor which can have a cryptographic application programming interface wherein the cryptographic module processor is adapted to authenticate the enterprise server be authenticated by the enterprise server and provide encrypted and non encrypted communication between the enterprise server and the plurality of field devices.

The at least one intelligent cryptographic module can include computer instructions in the cryptographic module data storage for instructing the cryptographic module processor to receive at least one encrypted message from the enterprise server receive at least one non encrypted message from the enterprise server receive at least one encrypted message from each of the plurality of field devices receive at least one non encrypted message from each of the plurality of field devices decrypt at least one encrypted message forming at least one decrypted message encrypt at least one non encrypted message forming at least one encrypted response and transmit the message encrypted by the at least one intelligent cryptographic module to either the enterprise server or the field device and transmit the decrypted message decrypted by the at least one intelligent cryptographic module to either the enterprise server or the plurality of field devices.

The at least one intelligent cryptographic module can include at least one port connected to the cryptographic module processor for receiving and transmitting at an encrypted message a decrypted message a non encrypted message and combinations thereof.

In embodiments the enterprise server can have a configurable server interface. The configurable server interface can receive client requests.

A configurable protocol interface can be in communication with online configurable communication server software.

The configurable protocol interface can be used to build a message. The message can be issued using a plurality of device protocols. For example one or more field devices in communication with the enterprise server can communicate via a first device protocol and one or more field devices in communication with the enterprise server can communicate via a second device protocol. The configurable protocol interface can support a plurality of device protocols simultaneously.

A configurable connection interface can be used to connect one or more devices intelligent cryptographic modules or combinations thereof to the enterprise server.

The enterprise server can have integrated online licensing software which can automatically create a customized license simultaneously while the enterprise server operates.

The enterprise server can have communication software linking the enterprise server with the plurality of field devices cryptographic modules or combinations thereof. The communication software can be adapted to simultaneously handle multiple types of telemetry and different device protocols associated with the field devices cryptographic modules or combinations thereof.

The enterprise server can also have configuration software. The configuration software can be used to configure and reconfigure one or more of the devices the intelligent cryptographic modules the remote terminal units or combinations thereof. The configuration software can provide commands communicated using the communication software while allowing the system to continue to operate.

In embodiments a cache can be created to store the status and measurement data in the memory of the server. The cache can be in communication with the client application through the configurable server interface.

In embodiments the method can include alarms which can be transmitted based on certain changes in state or changes in physical condition of at least one field device.

The enterprise server can include computer instructions to initiate the alarms . The computer instructions can be integrated with or within the client software the online configuration communication server software or combinations thereof or otherwise associated with the enterprise server . The computer instructions to initiate the alarms can sound an alarm when a change in state occurs or a physical condition exceeds or does not meet a preset value.

The method can include authenticating one or more cryptographic modules. The enterprise server can also include computer instructions for authentication. The computer instruction for authentication can be used to authenticate one or more cryptographic modules by exchanging certificates.

The enterprise server can also include computer instructions for public key encryption. The computer instructions for public key encryption can enable sharing of a cryptographic key with one of the cryptographic modules.

The enterprise server can have computer instructions for communication session initiation and continuing communication with a symmetric encryption key.

The enterprise server can include computer instructions to request the status and the measurement data from one of the devices cryptographic modules or combinations thereof at defined time intervals.

The enterprise server can also include computer instructions to transmit the cached status and measurement data to a client application.

The enterprise server can also include computer instructions for performance monitoring which identifies and tracks a member of the group consisting of software errors communication errors security parameters to track changes in registration keys symmetric keys public keys or combinations thereof errors occurring with the configurable protocol interface errors occurring with the configurable connection interface as communication occurs with each device cryptographic module or combinations thereof cryptographic module errors and combinations thereof.

The enterprise server can also have computer instructions for totalizing errors. The computer instructions for totalizing errors can be used to calculate or track errors in at least one field device the cryptographic module the enterprise server or combinations thereof.

The enterprise server can also include computer instructions for allowing client initiated modifications to the configurable server interface during the enterprise server operation.

The enterprise server can include computer instructions to allow client initiated modifications to the online configurable communication server software during enterprise server operation.

A configurable logging interface with the online configurable communication server software for communicating to a software logging program can be included on the enterprise server . The configurable logging interface can track and display errors occurring in a channel or with each device cryptographic module or combinations thereof and then storing the tracked and viewed errors.

The data storage can have computer instructions configured to instruct the processor to display a licensing menu when the enterprise server receives a request for a license from a client device for bidirectional communication between a field device and the enterprise server using a communication protocol of the field device.

The data storage can contain computer instructions configured to instruct the processor to receive and store a request for a license comprising an install ID a HOSTNAME a MAC and a volume ID.

The data storage can contain computer instructions configured to instruct the processor to generate a license for a field device and store the license in the data storage.

The license can include an install value for the install ID a hostname value for the HOSTNAME a MAC value for the MAC a volume ID value for the volume ID a device count value an indication of type of data from the field device and an indication of type of value for the field device.

The data storage can also include computer instructions configured to instruct the processor to generate a symmetric encryption key and store the symmetric encryption key in the data storage.

The data storage can contain computer instructions configured to instruct the processor to generate an object with an object name and the communication protocol of the field device and store the object in the data storage.

The object can have the communication protocol of the field device an object name a primary communication path a secondary communication path for the object depending on a success or a failure of the communication using the primary communication path a schedule configuration for scheduling communication with the field device and a communication status indicator .

The schedule configuration can have a periodic communication a date of a communication that can include a name of a month a year and a day of the month and a time of communication which has a start time and an end time.

The object can contain a diagnostic logging module . The diagnostic logging module can be used for tracking communication and other activity between the object and the field device.

The object can contain a logging for data collection module . The logging for data collection module can be used for analyzing communication performance between the object and the field device 

The object can also contain an alias label for labelling values from the field device and an unsolicited communication from a field device.

The object can have a time synchronization configuration and settings . The time synchronization configuration and settings can be used to synchronize field devices with the enterprise server.

In embodiments the time synchronization configuration and settings can include a time synchronization interval a time synchronization priority a time zone and a time synchronization configuration .

The data storage can contain computer instructions configured to instruct the processor to initiate communication with the field device of the request for the license using the object.

The data storage can contain computer instructions configured to instruct the processor to identify if communication between the enterprise server and field device succeeds or fails and then transmit the success or failure of communication to the client device and optionally switch to or from a secondary communication path for the object depending on a success or a failure of the communication.

The method can include licensing and de licensing of field devices while configuring and reconfiguring field devices online as status and measurement data from each licensed field device is collected using the communication protocol of each field device without stopping operational functions of the enterprise server supporting the object and simultaneously providing types of data and types of values of data between the field devices and the enterprise server to client devices.

The data storage can also include computer instructions configured to instruct the processor to communicate to any field device through an intelligent cryptographic module providing an encrypted communication link between the enterprise server and the field device.

The data storage can include computer instructions configured to instruct the processor to transmit a pass or fail communication from the object to the field device either on demand or using the schedule configuration.

The data storage can include computer instructions configured to instruct the processor to publish a report based on communication performance between the field devices and the enterprise server wherein the report comprises a request for data an acknowledgement of request for data an indication of receipt of data and at least one error message comprising a communication error a checksum a framing error a time out and a retry.

The data storage can contain computer instructions configured to instruct the processor to publish historical data based on a type of data collected by the field device in formats that are compatible with data analysis systems and data validation systems.

In embodiments the type of data can be pressure data temperature data flow data maintenance repair data battery limit data entry detection information for an enclosure leak detection data equipment run times plant conditions and combinations thereof.

The type of data can be at least one of historical data showing data and time of measurements spectrum data depicting vibration and frequency data and cyclic data showing measurements based on a predetermined timed interval. Cyclic data as an example can include data from a pump off controller for an oil well that is producing. One cycle is term a card and is viewed in the industry to be cyclic data.

The data storage can store the indication of type of value as at least one of a change in state of the field device and a current measured value of data from the field device .

The license can have a licensing menu screen which can show the reply from the enterprise server to the request for the license by providing an install value for the install ID a hostname value for the HOSTNAME a mac value for the MAC a volume ID value for the volume ID a device count value for a device count an indication of type of data from the field device and an indication of type of value for the field device.

The integrated online licensing software of the enterprise server can have computer instructions to provide a licensing menu comprising choices to initiate the license to modify a data item of the license or a device count of the license uninstall the license or combinations thereof.

The online licensing software can produce a symmetric encryption key. The symmetric encryption key can enable the field device of the license to initiate communication with the enterprise server automatically.

The online licensing software can contain modifiable license templates which can be changed to create a license for a quantity of field devices to be licensed a quantity of status and measurement data to be licensed a defined calendar period or combinations thereof.

The object can have the communication protocol of the field device shown here as MODBUS SCADAPACK PROTOCOL.

The object can have a primary communication path with a connection string a schedule configuration for scheduling communication with the field device and a secondary communication path is shown and can be clicked on to view additional information.

The communication status indicator is shown with a checkmark that the field device is in sync with the enterprise server.

The object can have an unsolicited communication from a field device option that is not enabled and an alias label for labelling values from the field device.

The diagnostic logging module can track one or more of the following errors send messages receive message security parameters to track changes in registration keys symmetric keys public keys or combinations thereof inappropriate communication status changes indicating a security breach data values received from a field device data values sent to a field device data values written by clients data values sent to clients configuration changes as communication occurs with the field device cryptographic module or combinations thereof unsolicited messages from a field device items in messages warnings time sync details such as commands and cryptographic module errors . The diagnostic logging module can also track the communication protocol of the field device.

The time synchronization configuration and settings can be used to synchronize field devices with the enterprise server and the communication protocol .

a time synchronization interval a time synchronization priority a time zone such as Eastern Standard Time and a time synchronization configuration .

The schedule configuration for periodic communicating with the field device wherein the schedule configuration can include at least one of a periodic communication a date of a communication comprising a month a year and a day of the month and a time of communication comprising a start time and an end time.

The report module can show output type for a report an indicator to publish generated objects an indicator to show which type of object to publish a publish filter to hold back certain information in the report a listing value to show which record to list first and other options.

The report can include a request for data an acknowledgement of request for data an indication of receipt of data and at least one error message comprising a communication error a checksum a framing error a time out and a retry.

As an example the output types for the report can be selected from FLOWCAL CFX 5 FLOWCAL CFX 7 FLOWCAL CFX 8 Comma separated variable CSV MICROSOFT SQL ORACLE and other databases PGAS XML AUTOS OL XML and AUTOSOL EFM.

The logging for data collection module can be used for analyzing communication performance between the object and the field device.

The logging for data collection module can track log to disk values the log file path the quantity of deleted old files provide a value on days to keep files and provide an indicator on max file size. Additionally the logging for data collection module can provide logger settings including a logger settings path. The UDP setup can be indicated including a miniport number a maxport number and an IP address.

The method for online licensing of field devices using a SCADA system can include connecting an enterprise server to a network shown in box .

The method can include receiving and storing a request for a license in the enterprise server as shown in box .

The method can include generating a license in response to the request for the license and storing the license in the data storage as shown in box .

In embodiments the license can contain but is not limited to a device count value an indication of type of data from each of the plurality of field devices and a value for each of the plurality field devices.

The method can include generating a symmetric encryption key using the device count value the indication of type of data and the value of the license and storing the symmetric encryption key in the data storage as shown in box .

The method can include generating an object in the enterprise server for each of the plurality of field devices and storing each object in the data storage as shown in box .

In embodiments each object can have a communication protocol for each field device an object name a primary communication path and a schedule configuration for scheduling communication with the plurality of field devices.

The method can include initiating communication with each of the plurality of field devices simultaneously through each object as shown in box .

The method can include identifying if communication between the enterprise server and each of the plurality of field devices succeeds or fails and optionally switching connection from a primary communication path to a secondary communication path between each object and each field device depending on a success or a failure of the communication as shown in box .

In embodiments the method can provide licensing and de licensing of the plurality of field devices while configuring and reconfiguring the plurality of field devices online as status and measurement data from each licensed field device is collected using the communication protocol of each of the plurality of field devices independently and without stopping operational functions of the enterprise server supporting each object while simultaneously providing types of data and values of data between the plurality of field devices and the enterprise server.

The method can include communicating to a portion of the plurality of field devices from at least one object through at least one intelligent cryptographic module providing an encrypted communication link between the object and each of the plurality of field devices communicating with at least one intelligent cryptographic module as shown in box .

The method can include transmitting a pass or fail communication from each object to each of the plurality of field devices either on demand or using the schedule configuration as shown in box .

The method can include publishing a report based on communication performance between each of the plurality of field devices and each object as shown in box .

The method can include publishing historical data based on a type of data collected by each of the plurality of field devices as shown in box .

The method can include transmitting a command from each object to each field device wherein the command comprises at least one of an actuation command a deactivation command a configuration command for online configuration a reconfiguration command for online reconfiguration and wherein each command is at least one of an encrypted command and a command without encryption as shown in box .

In embodiments of the method each of the plurality of field devices can be selected from a group consisting of at least one of monitoring devices detection devices metering devices tracking devices bar code readers remote terminal units a virtual field device programmable logic controllers wearable computers physical property measuring devices such as Doppler measuring devices acoustic measuring devices laser measuring devices and Coriolis meters and other physical property sensors.

In embodiments of the method by means of at least one intelligent cryptographic module can involve providing authentication of each of the plurality of field devices by exchanging ANSI X.509 certificates between each of the plurality of field devices and the object generating a public key to authenticate an owner of an ANSI X.509 certificate and generating a symmetric session key for session initiation and continuing communication between each of the plurality of field devices and the

In embodiments the method can involve receiving and storing a request for a license from the client device. The request for the license can identify at least one field device of the plurality of field devices and can include an install ID a HOSTNAME a MAC number or identification and a volume ID.

A license can be generated for each of the plurality of field device and stored in the data storage. The license can include an install value for the install ID a hostname value for the HOSTNAME a mac value for the MAC a volume ID value for the volume ID a device count value an indication of type of data from each of the plurality of field devices and an indication of type of value for each of the plurality field devices.

As with the prior embodiments the method can include generating a symmetric encryption key and storing the symmetric encryption key in the data storage and generating the object in the enterprise server for each of the plurality of field devices and storing each object in the data storage.

In embodiments the object can include a communication protocol of each of the plurality field devices an object name a primary communication path a schedule configuration for scheduling communication with each of the plurality of field devices and a communication status indicator.

The method can include initiating communication with each of the plurality field devices simultaneously through each object identifying if communication between the enterprise server and each of the plurality field devices succeeds or fails and then transmitting the success or failure of communication to the client device and optionally switching the connection from the primary communication path to the secondary communication path between each object and each of the plurality field devices depending on a success or a failure of the communication.

The method can provide licensing and de licensing of the plurality field devices while configuring and reconfiguring the plurality of field devices online as status and measurement data from each licensed field device is collected using the communication protocol of each of the plurality of field devices independently and without stopping operational functions of the enterprise server supporting the object while simultaneously providing types of data and types of values of data between the plurality of field devices and the enterprise server to the client device.

While these embodiments have been described with emphasis on the embodiments it should be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the embodiments might be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

