---

title: Context aware transactions performed on integrated service platforms
abstract: Certain aspects of the present disclosure relate to user access to an application service that references user account information and previous user action information. One example method may include receiving, via a receiver device, user input information to access an application, the user input information including at least one action request and authorizing the user to access the application. The method may also include storing the user input information as part of a contextual history information record in a database memory, generating a response message to the selected at least one action request based on the contextual history information, and forwarding the response message to the user via a transmitter device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09537959&OS=09537959&RS=09537959
owner: West Corporation
number: 09537959
owner_city: Omaha
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160308
---
This application is a continuation from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 567 859 filed Dec. 11 2014 and entitled CONTEXT AWARE TRANSACTIONS PERFORMED ON INTEGRATED SERVICE PLATFORMS which is a continuation from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 273 413 filed Oct. 14 2011 and entitled CONTEXT AWARE TRANSACTIONS PERFORMED ON INTEGRATED SERVICE PLATFORMS now issued U.S. Pat. No. 8 914 850 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to communication systems and more specifically to a method apparatus and computer readable instructions configuring context aware transactions performed on integrated service platforms to provide a user with proactive and predictive transactions based on user account information.

Several systems are available that provide services to users which are typically accessible using various communication channels. These services may include one or more web services and the communication channels may include audio call short message service SMS web mobile and social media. The user may typically use several of the channels to access multiple of the services for carrying out a same or related tasks. The user may frequently need to carry out multiple sessions related to a same task or related tasks using multiple services by way of different communication channels. For example the user may need to switch from a first session using a first service accessible via a first communication channel to a second session using a second service accessible via a second communication channel. In such scenarios the current systems typically drop the user s context for the first session and initiate a completely new context for the second session. Without a context from the first session the second service may need to collect user information all over again before being able to provide the required solution to the user. This information may include user account information user request and the like. This may lead to the user needing to start all over again on every new session which is very inefficient and may lead to loss of time system resources increased cost of running the system and user dissatisfaction.

Certain aspects of the present disclosure provide a method for configuring context aware sessions. The method generally includes providing a first session using a first communication channel and using contextual information of the first session to provide a second session using a second communication channel wherein the second session is associated with the first session.

Certain aspects of the present disclosure provide an apparatus for configuring context aware sessions. The apparatus generally includes at least one processor configured to provide a first session using a first communication channel and use contextual information of the first session to provide a second session using a second communication channel wherein the second session is associated with the first session and a memory coupled to the at least one processor.

Certain aspects of the present disclosure provide a computer program product for configuring context aware sessions the computer program product generally includes a non transitory computer program product for configuring context aware sessions the computer program product comprising instructions for providing a first session using a first communication channel and using contextual information of the first session to provide a second session using a second communication channel wherein the second session is associated with the first session.

Certain aspects of the present disclosure provide a method that includes receiving via a receiver device user input information to access an application the user input information including at least one action request. The method may also include authorizing the user to access the application storing the user input information as part of a contextual history information record in a database memory generating a response message to the selected at least one action request based on the contextual history information and forwarding the response message to the user via a transmitter device.

Certain aspects of the present disclosure provide an apparatus that includes a receiver configured to receive user input information to access an application the user input information including at least one action request. The apparatus may also include a processor configured to authorize the user to access the application store the user input information as part of a contextual history information record in a database memory and generate a response message to the selected at least one action request based on the contextual history information. The apparatus may also include a transmitter configured to forward the response message to the user.

The foregoing summary as well as the following detailed description of certain embodiments of the present invention will be better understood when read in conjunction with the appended drawings. The figures illustrate diagrams of the functional blocks of various embodiments. The functional blocks are not necessarily indicative of the division between hardware circuitry. Thus for example one or more of the functional blocks e.g. processors or memories may be implemented in a single piece of hardware e.g. a general purpose signal processor or a block or random access memory hard disk or the like . Similarly the programs may be stand alone programs may be incorporated as subroutines in an operating system may be functions in an installed imaging software package and the like. It should be understood that the various embodiments are not limited to the arrangements and instrumentality shown in the drawings.

System provides services to a user which are accessible using various communication channels . Services include a voice self service an intelligent routing service an insight survey service a notification service and a session and context service . Communication channels include audio calls short message service web mobile and social media . System may also include an interface service providing an interface between the communication channels and the services . It may be appreciated that the communication channels and services shown as part of the system are only by way of an illustrative example and the system may include any number and types of communication channels and services. For example services may include any one or more web services or applications and the communication channels may include any channel that may be used for communication between a user and the services.

The user may typically use several of the channels one or more at a time to access one or more of the services for carrying out sessions related typically to a same task or related tasks. The user may frequently need to carry out multiple sessions related to the same task or related tasks using multiple services by way of different communication channels . For example the user may need to switch from a first session using a first service accessible via a first communication channel to a second session using a second service accessible via a second communication channel. In another example the user may access one or more of the services using one or more communication channels .

According to an example embodiment the session and context service records contextual information for every user session typically in real time. The intelligent routing service is responsible for transferring user context from one channel service to another channel service. The contextual information may include user account information user events during a session user requests made during a session and the like. Thus system provides context aware transactions with an ability to pickup where the user left a session or transaction no matter what communication channel the user may use.

At step the user needs assistance. For the sake of this example the user may hit a Click to Call button on the web page during the first session. This sends a message to the intelligent routing service with collected user data and contextual information from the first session relating to for example what the user was trying to do. In certain aspects an 8YY number is returned to the user that happens to be provisioned to hit a Voice Self Service VSS Platform .

At step when the user s call hits the Voice Self Service the Platform notifies the intelligent routing service of the call arrival.

At step the intelligent routing service returns the user data and previous channel context from the first session to the VSS application. The application then picks up where the website left off and processes the Pay Per View transaction in a second session using the contextual information from the first session.

At step while the user is navigating through the VSS application constant contextual information relating to the second session is sent to the session context service .

At this point the user may be serviced via an automated VSS application or if the user is still having difficulty he may select Help within the VSS application and the application may send an agent request message to the intelligent routing service and another 8YY number may be returned to the user that is targeted for a specific contact center or Agent. The customer data and context information from the second session may then be passed to the agent and a third session may be initiated between the user and the agent and the user may pick up where he left off in the second session.

Examples of user data include a service name such as bill pay and certain operations tasks to complete such services such as authorize a user obtain account balance select payment method enter payment information submit payment and confirmation of payment. Each operation task includes key data attributes which are stored in memory while the user interacts with the self service channel. The user data is sent to a web service within the host environment that stores and maintains the data in a database. The user data is accessed in real time and the key data is collected when a step task is completed. The session and context service is a centralized database accessible by any of the services.

In one example a WIFI television application initiates service with the context service DB by implementing endpoint channels which have applications that are programmed to interface with the hosted environment for the context data collection. Endpoint channels have applications that are programmed to interface with the web service for the context data collection. The APIs and SDKs allow the 3rd parties to access the user data by provisioning an application ID and or client ID that must be provisioned on the hosted environment site in order for them to have access to certain services.

Examples of predictive transactions may include historical contextual information that is used to issue proactive notifications via any channel based on customer preferences . For example certain features such as a payment reminder if we know that the first Tuesday of the month a user calls in or logs in to obtain an account balance and pay their bill then in response a proactive notification may be used to inform the user of their account balance and allow them to pay their bill and submit their payment. In another example if a user initiates a call via mobile the call processing system may predict that the user is calling about their account balance and their desire to pay a bill. In this case the inbound self service call would determine if there is a predictive transaction that may be retrieved from the database and then prompt the consumer to confirm the reason for the call. Once the purpose of the call is confirmed the application will advance to a specific part of the application procedures and perform the interaction. In other words a prediction may be made and presented to the user for convenience and confirmation by the user. Such a configuration provides the user with one or more opportunities to turn down or accept automated call processing feedback menu options and application advancement opportunities without initiating any new request data. The predeterminations or predictions may be performed by the call processing application or user data application upfront in an effort to save the user time and without requiring any initial user input. The predictions may be made the moment the user logs in calls in connects etc.

In certain examples Natural Language Processing NLP is a service that may be used with ASR SMS and Social Media and corresponding decisions interactions may be automated for these communication channels and context information stored in the session and context service .

System includes multiple communication channels including mobile fixed line and computer . The system also provides multiple services such as services and . The services may be a web service or any other type of service. Service is a session and context service for recording user data and contextual information from user sessions. In system service is accessible via mobile service is accessible via fixed line and service is accessible via computer .

When the user fails to pay the bill using the first session the user initiates a second session with the service using the fixed line as the communication channel. When the user s call arrives into the system using the fixed line the user is authenticated and context data is searched. In an aspect the user may be prompted to enter an account number and any existing stored user context information may be searched for in the service using the user account number. The context data from the first session is retrieved from service and used for setting up the second session. As the user proceeds in the second session and successfully pays the bill the context information relating to the second session is constantly sent and stored in service .

The user may initiate a third session with service using mobile as the communication channel to check a status of the bill payment. Again when a mobile call is received into the system the user is authenticated and context data is searched in service similar to the second session above. The user context data from the second session is retrieved from service and used for setting up the third session and the user is promptly sent a notification on the mobile device that the bill payment is received.

User data may include attributes that identify the consumer and the actions taken by the user. The user data is sent to the context services and may be dependent on the applications needed i.e. user interactions with such application . Every time a user submits new data it is sent to be stored by the context service. According to one example a WiFi television application may initiate a service with the context service database. The application is part of the WiFi enabled TV created by the application programming interfaces APIs provided by the TV manufacturer. The APIs and SDKs provide 3parties with access to the context services via a data as a service DaaS channel. This provides an interface for the third parties to register to access the user information. Examples of the user transactions types may include paying a bill ordering pay per view voting polling etc.

At a suggestion for making the request for initiating the second session using the second communication channel is sent typically from the intelligent routing service to the user. At a request for initiating a second session using a second communication channel is received in the system. In certain aspects the request for initiating the second session is received at a second service. At the intelligent routing service is notified of receiving the request for initiating the second session at the second service. At contextual information of the first session is sent by the intelligent routing service to the second communication channel in response to receiving the notification. At contextual information for the second session is stored by the session and context service.

System includes user premises and a service provider . The user premises may include a user s home place of work or a combination of both. The service provider may be an Internet service provider ISP a cable television provider satellite television provider or another service provider etc.

As illustrated in the context service may be provided to a variety of different contexts. illustrates an example context service integrated with a WiFi enabled television . According to one example embodiment a user may access the television via a remote control RC device to view various content channels the Internet and other WiFi television TV enabled services. For example a user application may be accessed on the WiFi television and presented to the user on the TV display. Example applications may include user services such as e mail bill pay banking subscription services games network applications etc. The user may select and operate the application via interaction with the set top box STB .

The STB may integrate with the TV to provide wireless Internet access via a router located at the user s premises. The router may connect to the Internet and provide wireless Internet access to the end user via a service provider . The service provider may include a content server and user history database . The content server may store and forward content data such as applications television shows Internet services etc. The user history database may provide access to a multi channel and multi tenant customer profile information. The user may register for a particular service or application and submit personal information e.g. name address username password credit card information etc. . The user session may be associated with one or more contexts that are shared among the applications during the course of the user session. The context information may be stored in the user history database during user interaction with one or more applications. Contextual information may include personal user information and other information such as preferences historical selection information demographic information user purpose information e.g. pay a bill receive technical assistance complaints etc . Such contextual information may be identified and recorded in the user history database during the course of a user session.

Following an authorization procedure the user may be able to obtain account information select a payment method enter payment information submit a payment and receive confirmation information. One or more of the above noted information types may be recorded and stored as part of the user context information. The user data is received by an endpoint channel that has corresponding applications that are programmed to interface with the user context service system . Application programming interfaces APIs and software development kits SDKs may be used to connect and communicate with the context service system . Third parties may register and access use contextual information stored in the history database by submitting an application identification ID and or a client identification ID and receiving the corresponding permission.

The stored user contextual information may be received updated and stored in real time. The contextual information may be stored in the history database . The information can be retrieved and accessed to issue proactive or predictive notifications to the user or third parties. The previously stored user contextual information may be retrieved and applied to new contexts in a proactive or predictive manner. For example previously stored user contextual information may be retrieved and applied to new sessions and applications operated by third parties. Once user contextual information has been received and stored in the history database the user contextual information may be retrieved by the data retrieval engine in response to a new user application being accessed or a new session being established by the user or a third party.

The user contextual information may be analyzed by the data analytics engine to determine the required information for a particular predictive or proactive transaction performed by a third party application. For example an automated third party initiated recurring user payment application may be invoked in response to an initial user payment transaction. The user inputted information may be received and stored in the user history database during the course of a one time user payment transaction to pay for a particular service i.e. cable television service . The user context information may be accessed by the data retrieval engine and a data analytics engine to create an automated and recurring payment operation to begin sending reminders to the user at a fixed interval. For instance the third party cable service provider may note that the user has called in to pay his or her bill the first Tuesday of the previous month.

In one example the cable company may setup a proactive notification reminder via the data reporting engine to notify the user via text message e mail telephone call etc. that there bill is due again. The user notification medium may be selected based on one or more portions of the historical user communication mediums noted in the user contextual information.

In another example the cable company may setup a predictive action via the data reporting engine to automatically initiate a user payment option when a user calls into the cable service company. The payment redirect may begin the moment that the user is identified and cross correlated with the previous user contextual information stored in the user history database. For example the user may enter a call to the cable company and be transferred to the payments center once the authorization identification and or other user information is identified. This type of predictive action may rely on the historical user contextual information to determine the purpose of the user s previous call s and automatically transfer the user to the payments center.

One example embodiment of the present disclosure may include a method as illustrated in the flow diagram of . Referring to flow diagram illustrates receiving via a receiver device user input information to access an application the user input information may include at least one action request at operation . The user may be seeking access to an application or entering information in an effort to retrieve certain response information. The user may be pre authorized or authorized by entering user credential information in order to access the application at operation . The method may also include storing the user input information as part of a contextual history information record in a database memory at operation . The method may further provide generating a response message to the selected at least one action request based on the contextual history information at operation . For example the user may be requesting a summary of his or her bill for a particular service. The response information may be generated and sent to the user according to one or more preferences derived from the user s stored contextual history information. The response may be sent to the user via a transmitter device at operation .

Examples of user input information may include one or more of a username password user preference and query information. The method may also provide generating at least one additional response automatically based on a third party application the at least one additional response may be based on at least a portion of the contextual history information. The third party may be a cable company that is seeking to track the user behavior of its customers. The store contextual history information may include user preferences bill paying preferences and records of user behavior e.g. all the user calls are for paying bills or bill related . Other options may include account information technical support live agent access etc. The third party application may create a reminder system that automatically generates future reminders based on present transactions. The third party application may generate a predictive response to offer the user a service independent of the user requesting the service i.e. without the user requesting or knowing about the third party application . Such information may be derived from the contextual history information of the user that is stored in a historical user database.

Those of skill in the art would understand that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Those of skill would further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the disclosure herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present disclosure.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the disclosure herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the disclosure herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary designs the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. A non transitory computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media or medium may be any available device component that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or a general purpose or special purpose processor. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor may read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components. For example illustrates an example network element which may represent any of the above described network components of .

As illustrated in a memory and a processor may be discrete components of the network entity that are used to execute an application or set of operations. The application may be coded in software in a computer language understood by the processor and stored in a computer readable medium such as the memory . Furthermore a software module may be another discrete entity that is part of the network entity and which contains software instructions that may be executed by the processor . In addition to the above noted components of the network entity the network entity may also have a transmitter and receiver pair configured to receive and transmit communication signals not shown .

The previous description of the disclosure is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the disclosure. Various modifications to the disclosure will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other variations without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure. Thus the disclosure is not intended to be limited to the examples and designs described herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

