---

title: Dihydropyrrolopyridine inhibitors of ROR-gamma
abstract: 

pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, and pharmaceutical compositions thereof, which are useful in the treatment of diseases and disorders mediated by RORγ. Also provided are pharmaceutical compositions comprising the novel compounds of Formula (I) and methods for their use in treating one or more inflammatory, metabolic, autoimmune and other diseases or disorders.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09481674&OS=09481674&RS=09481674
owner: Vitae Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
number: 09481674
owner_city: Fort Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160610
---
This application is a continuation of International Application No. PCT US2015 055420 filed Oct. 14 2015 which claims the benefit of the filing date of U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 063 912 filed Oct. 14 2014 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 074 406 filed Nov. 3 2014. The entire contents of the aforementioned applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is directed to novel retinoic acid receptor related orphan receptor gamma ROR or ROR gamma inhibitors processes for their preparation pharmaceutical compositions containing these inhibitors and their use in the treatment of inflammatory metabolic autoimmune and other diseases mediated by ROR.

Retinoic acid receptor related orphan receptors RORs are a subfamily of transcription factors in the steroid hormone nuclear receptor superfamily Jetten Joo 2006 Adv. Dev. Biol. 2006 16 313 355 . The ROR family consists of ROR alpha ROR ROR beta ROR and ROR gamma ROR each encoded by a separate gene in human RORA RORB and RORC respectively in mouse rora rorb and rorc respectively . RORs contain four principal domains shared by the majority of nuclear receptors an N terminal domain a highly conserved DNA binding domain DBD consisting of two zinc finger motifs a hinge domain and a ligand binding domain LBD . Each ROR gene generates several isoforms differing only in their N terminal domains. ROR has two isoforms ROR1 and ROR2 also known as RORt . ROR refers to ROR1 and or RORt. ROR1 is expressed in a variety of tissues including thymus muscle kidney and liver but RORt is exclusively expressed in the cells of the immune system has a critical role in thymopoiesis and the development of several secondary lymphoid tissues and is a key regulator of Th17 cell differentiation Jetten 2009 Nucl. Recept. Signal. 7 e003 doi 10.1621 nrs.07003 Epub 2009 Apr. 3 .

Th17 cells are a subset of T helper cells which preferentially produce the pro inflammatory cytokines IL 17A IL 17F IL 21 and IL 22. Th17 cells and their effector molecules such as IL 17 IL 21 IL 22 GM CSF and CCL20 are associated with the pathogenesis of several autoimmune and inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis systemic lupus erythematosus multiple sclerosis psoriasis inflammatory bowel disease allergy and asthma Maddur et al. 2012 Am. J. Pathol. 181 8 18 . Recent findings support a role for IL17 and Th17 cells in the pathogenesis of acne Thiboutot et al. 2014 J. Invest. Dermatol. 134 2 307 10 doi 10.1038 jid.2013.400 Agak et al. 2014 J. Invest. Dermatol. 134 2 366 73 doi 10.1038 jid.2013.334 Epub 2013 Aug. 7 . Th17 cells are also potent inducers of inflammation associated with endometriosis a chronic inflammatory disease Hirata et al. 2010 Endocrinol. 151 5468 5476 Hirata et al. 2011 Fertil Steril. July 96 1 113 7 doi 10.1016 j.fertnstert.2011.04.060 Epub 2011 May 20 . Additionally Th17 cells have a key role in the mouse autoimmune models of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis EAE collagen induced arthritis CIA and adjuvant induced arthritis AIA Bedoya et al. 2013 Clin. Dev. Immunol. 2013 986789. Epub 2013 Dec. 26. Th17 cells are activated during inflammatory and autoimmune disease processes and are responsible for recruiting other inflammatory cell types particularly neutrophils to mediate pathology in target tissues Miossec Kolls 2012 Nature Rev. 11 763 776 Korn et al. 2009 Annu. Rev. Immunol. 27 485 517 . Aberrant Th17 cell function has been implicated in a variety of autoimmune diseases including multiple sclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis. Autoimmune disease is believed to arise from the disruption of the equilibrium between effector and regulatory T cells Solt et al. 2012 ACS Chem. Biol. 7 1515 1519 Epub 2012 Jul. 9 . The importance of RORt to Th17 cell differentiation and the pathogenic role of Th17 cells is evidenced by the fact that RORt deficient mice have very few Th17 cells and have a reduction in severity of EAE Ivanov et al. 2006 Cell 126 1121 1133 .

Circadian rhythms are daily cycles of behavioral and physiological changes that are regulated by endogenous circadian clocks. A number of studies have established links between nuclear receptor including ROR function and expression the circadian regulatory circuitry and the regulation of various physiological processes Jetten 2009 op. cit. .

Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome OSAS is a chronic inflammatory disease regulated by T lymphocytes. OSAS patients have a significant increase in peripheral Th17 cell frequency IL 17 and RORt levels Ye et al. 2012 Mediators Inflamm. 815308 doi 10.1155 2012 815308 Epub 2012 Dec. 31 .

A number of studies have provided evidence of a role of RORs in cancer. Mice deficient in the expression of ROR exhibit a high incidence of thymic lymphomas that metastasize frequently to liver and spleen. High expression of Th17 associated genes including ROR and high levels of Th17 cells in the tumor microenvironment has been shown to correlate with a poor prognosis in various cancers including lung gastric breast and colon cancer Tosolini et al. 2011 Cancer Res. 71 1263 1271 doi 10.1158 0008 5472.CAN 10 2907 Epub 2011 Feb. 8 Su et al. 2014 Immunol. Res. 58 118 124 doi 10.1007 s12026 013 8483 y Epub 2014 Jan. 9 Carmi et al. 2011 J. Immunol. 186 3462 3471 doi 10.4049 jimmunol.1002901 Epub 2011 Feb. 7 Chen et al. 2013 Histopathology 63 225 233 doi 10.1111 his.12156 Epub 2013 Jun. 6 .

ROR has also been identified to have a regulatory role in lipid glucose homeostasis and has been implicated in metabolic syndrome obesity Meissburger et al. 2011 EMBO Mol. Med. 3 637 651 hepatosteatosis insulin resistance and diabetes.

Further support for the role of ROR in the pathogenesis of inflammatory metabolic circadian effect cancer and autoimmune diseases and disorders can be found in the following references Chang et al. 2012 J. Exp. Pharmacol. 4 141 148 Jetten et al. 2013 Frontiers Endocrinol. 4 1 8 Huh Littman 2012 Eur. J. Immunol. 42 2232 2237 Martinez et al. 2008 Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci. 1143 188 211 Pantelyushin et al. 2012 J. Clin. Invest. 122 2252 2256 Jetten Ueda 2002 Cell Death Differen. 9 1167 1171 Solt et al. 2010 Curr. Opin. Lipidol. 21 204 211.

In light of the role that ROR plays in disease pathogenesis inhibition of ROR activity and Th17 cell differentiation and activity including IL17 production will be of significant therapeutic benefit. It is therefore desirable to prepare compounds that inhibit ROR activity and hence have utility in the treatment of inflammatory autoimmune metabolic circadian effect cancer and other diseases mediated by ROR such as e.g. asthma atopic dermatitis acne Crohn s disease regional enteritis ulcerative colitis Sj gren s syndrome uveitis Behet s disease dermatomyositis multiple sclerosis ankylosing spondylitis systemic lupus erythematosus scleroderma psoriasis psoriatic arthritis steroid resistant asthma and rheumatoid arthritis.

It has now been found that compounds described herein and pharmaceutically acceptable compositions thereof are effective inhibitors of ROR see e.g. Table 2 . Such compounds include those of Formula I 

The provided compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable compositions thereof are inverse agonists or antagonists of ROR and are useful for treating a variety of diseases disorders or conditions. Such diseases disorders or conditions include those described herein.

The provided compounds can be used alone i.e. as a monotherapy or in combination with one or more other therapeutic agent effective for treating any of the indications described herein.

Compounds provided herein possess the technical advantage of having therapeutic relevance in cell free competition assays cell based transcriptional assays whole blood assays and hERG potassium channel assays e.g. see Tables 2 and 3 below.

Ris C C alkyl hydroxy C C alkyl halo C C alkyl benzyl C C alkoxy C C alkyl tetrahydropyranyl or CH tetrahydropyranyl 

Cyis hydrogen halo C C alkyl cyclohexyl or tetrahydropyranyl wherein the cyclohexyl and tetrahydropyranyl are each optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo C C alkyl and C C alkoxy .

The terms halo and halogen as used herein refer to an atom selected from fluorine fluoro F chlorine chloro Cl bromine bromo Br and iodine iodo I .

The term alkyl used alone or as a part of a larger moiety such as e.g. haloalkyl means a saturated monovalent straight or branched hydrocarbon radical having unless otherwise specified 1 6 carbon atoms and includes for example methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl sec butyl isobutyl tert butyl n pentyl n hexyl n heptyl n octyl n nonyl n decyl and the like. Monovalent means attached to the rest of the molecule at one point.

The term haloalkyl or halocycloalkyl include mono poly and perhaloalkyl groups where the halogens are independently selected from fluorine chlorine iodine and bromine.

As used herein the terms subject and patient may be used interchangeably and means a mammal in need of treatment e.g. companion animals e.g. dogs cats and the like farm animals e.g. cows pigs horses sheep goats and the like and laboratory animals e.g. rats mice guinea pigs and the like . Typically the subject is a human in need of treatment.

Certain of the disclosed compounds may exist in various stereoisomeric forms. Stereoisomers are compounds that differ only in their spatial arrangement. Enantiomers are pairs of stereoisomers whose mirror images are not superimposable most commonly because they contain an asymmetrically substituted carbon atom that acts as a chiral center. Enantiomer means one of a pair of molecules that are mirror images of each other and are not superimposable. Diastereomers are stereoisomers that contain two or more asymmetrically substituted carbon atoms. The symbol in a structural formula represents the presence of a chiral carbon center. R and S represent the configuration of substituents around one or more chiral carbon atoms. Thus R and S denote the relative configurations of substituents around one or more chiral carbon atoms.

 Racemate or racemic mixture means a compound of equimolar quantities of two enantiomers wherein such mixtures exhibit no optical activity i.e. they do not rotate the plane of polarized light.

 Geometric isomer means isomers that differ in the orientation of substituent atoms in relationship to a carbon carbon double bond to a cycloalkyl ring or to a bridged bicyclic system. Atoms other than H on each side of a carbon carbon double bond may be in an E substituents are on opposite sides of the carbon carbon double bond or Z substituents are oriented on the same side configuration. R S S R E Z cis and trans indicate configurations relative to the core molecule. When a disclosed compound is named or depicted by structure without indicating a particular geometric isomer form it is to be understood that the name or structure encompasses one geometric isomer free of other geometric isomers mixtures of geometric isomers or all geometric isomers.

The compounds of the invention may be prepared as individual enantiomers by either enantio specific synthesis or resolved from an enantiomerically enriched mixture. Conventional resolution techniques include forming the salt of a free base of each isomer of an enantiomeric pair using an optically active acid followed by fractional crystallization and regeneration of the free base forming the salt of the acid form of each enantiomer of an enantiomeric pair using an optically active amine followed by fractional crystallization and regeneration of the free acid forming an ester or amide of each of the enantiomers of an enantiomeric pair using an optically pure acid amine or alcohol followed by chromatographic separation and removal of the chiral auxiliary or resolving an enantiomeric mixture of either a starting material or a final product using various well known chromatographic methods.

When the stereochemistry of a disclosed compound is named or depicted by structure the named or depicted stereoisomer is at least 60 70 80 90 99 or 99.9 by weight pure relative to all of the other stereoisomers. Percent by weight pure relative to all of the other stereoisomers is the ratio of the weight of one stereoisomer over the weight of the other stereoisomers. When a single enantiomer is named or depicted by structure the depicted or named enantiomer is at least 60 70 80 90 99 or 99.9 by weight optically pure. Percent optical purity by weight is the ratio of the weight of the enantiomer over the weight of the enantiomer plus the weight of its optical isomer.

When the stereochemistry of a disclosed compound is named or depicted by structure and the named or depicted structure encompasses more than one stereoisomer e.g. as in a diastereomeric pair it is to be understood that one of the encompassed stereoisomers or any mixture of the encompassed stereoisomers are included. It is to be further understood that the stereoisomeric purity of the named or depicted stereoisomers at least 60 70 80 90 99 or 99.9 by weight pure relative to all of the other stereoisomers. The stereoisomeric purity in this case is determined by dividing the total weight in the mixture of the stereoisomers encompassed by the name or structure by the total weight in the mixture of all of the stereoisomers.

When a disclosed compound is named or depicted by structure without indicating the stereochemistry and the compound has one chiral center it is to be understood that the name or structure encompasses one enantiomer of compound free from the corresponding optical isomer a racemic mixture of the compound and mixtures enriched in one enantiomer relative to its corresponding optical isomer.

When a disclosed compound is named or depicted by structure without indicating the stereochemistry and has at least two chiral centers it is to be understood that the name or structure encompasses one stereoisomer free of other diastereomers mixtures of stereoisomers and mixtures of stereoisomers in which one or more diastereomers is enriched relative to the other diastereomer s .

The compounds of the invention may be present in the form of pharmaceutically acceptable salts. For use in medicines the salts of the compounds of the invention refer to non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable salts. Pharmaceutically acceptable salt forms include pharmaceutically acceptable acidic anionic or basic cationic salts.

Pharmaceutically acceptable basic cationic salts include the sodium potassium calcium magnesium diethanolamine n methyl D glucamine L lysine L arginine ammonium ethanolamine piperazine and triethanolamine salts.

Pharmaceutically acceptable acidic anionic salts include e.g. the acetate benzenesulfonate benzoate bicarbonate bitartrate carbonate citrate dihydrochloride gluconate glutamate glycollylarsanilate hexylresorcinate hydrobromide hydrochloride malate maleate malonate mesylate nitrate salicylate stearate succinate sulfate tartrate and tosylate.

In a fifth embodiment Cyin Formulas I to IV is cyclohexyl or tetrahydropyranyl each of which are optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from halo C C alkyl and C C alkoxy .

In a ninth embodiment Rin Formulas I to VII is methyl ethyl benzyl or isopropyl wherein the remainder of the variables are as described in Formula I or the fifth or sixth embodiment. Alternatively Rin Formulas I to VII is ethyl or isopropyl wherein the remainder of the variables are as described in Formula I or the fifth or sixth embodiment.

In a tenth embodiment Rin Formulas V and VII is CFand Ris SOEt or SOMe wherein the remainder of the variables are as described in Formula I or the fifth sixth or ninth embodiment.

Specific examples of compounds of the invention are provided in the EXEMPLIFICATION. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts as well as the neutral forms of these compounds are included in the invention.

In certain embodiments the present invention provides any one of the compounds in the foregoing examples or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

In certain embodiments the present invention provides a method of treating a patient e.g. a human with a disorder mediated by ROR comprising the step of administering to the patient an effective amount of the compound with any compound described herein or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or composition thereof.

According to another embodiment the present invention provides a method of treating a subject e.g. a human with a disorder mediated by ROR using a composition comprising a compound of the invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier adjuvant or vehicle. In certain embodiments the amount of compound of the invention in a provided composition is such that it is effective as an inverse agonist or antagonist to ROR in a biological sample or in a subject. In certain embodiments a provided composition is formulated for administration to a subject in need of such composition. In some embodiments a provided composition is formulated for oral administration to a subject.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable carrier adjuvant or vehicle refers to a non toxic carrier adjuvant or vehicle that does not destroy the pharmacological activity of the compound with which it is formulated. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers adjuvants or vehicles that may be used in the compositions of this disclosure include but are not limited to ion exchangers alumina aluminum stearate lecithin serum proteins such as human serum albumin buffer substances such as phosphates glycine sorbic acid potassium sorbate partial glyceride mixtures of saturated vegetable fatty acids water salts or electrolytes such as protamine sulfate disodium hydrogen phosphate potassium hydrogen phosphate sodium chloride zinc salts colloidal silica magnesium trisilicate polyvinyl pyrrolidone cellulose based substances polyethylene glycol sodium carboxymethylcellulose polyacrylates waxes polyethylene polyoxypropylene block polymers polyethylene glycol and wool fat.

Compositions described herein may be administered orally parenterally by inhalation spray topically rectally nasally buccally vaginally or via an implanted reservoir. The term parenteral as used herein includes subcutaneous intravenous intramuscular intra articular intra synovial intrasternal intrathecal intrahepatic intralesional and intracranial injection or infusion techniques.

Liquid dosage forms for oral administration include but are not limited to pharmaceutically acceptable emulsions microemulsions solutions suspensions syrups and elixirs. In addition to the active compounds the liquid dosage forms may contain inert diluents commonly used in the art such as for example water or other solvents solubilizing agents and emulsifiers such as ethyl alcohol isopropyl alcohol ethyl carbonate ethyl acetate benzyl alcohol benzyl benzoate propylene glycol 1 3 butylene glycol dimethylformamide oils in particular cottonseed groundnut corn germ olive castor and sesame oils glycerol tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol polyethylene glycols and fatty acid esters of sorbitan and mixtures thereof. Besides inert diluents the oral compositions can also include adjuvants such as wetting agents emulsifying and suspending agents sweetening flavoring and perfuming agents.

Injectable preparations for example sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspensions may be formulated according to the known art using suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution suspension or emulsion in a nontoxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent for example as a solution in 1 3 butanediol. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water Ringer s solution U.S.P. and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils are conventionally employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil can be employed including synthetic mono or diglycerides. In addition fatty acids such as oleic acid are used in the preparation of injectables.

Injectable formulations can be sterilized for example by filtration through a bacterial retaining filter or by incorporating sterilizing agents in the form of sterile solid compositions which can be dissolved or dispersed in sterile water or other sterile injectable medium prior to use.

In order to prolong the effect of a provided compound it is often desirable to slow the absorption of the compound from subcutaneous or intramuscular injection. This may be accomplished by the use of a liquid suspension of crystalline or amorphous material with poor water solubility. The rate of absorption of the compound then depends upon its rate of dissolution that in turn may depend upon crystal size and crystalline form. Alternatively delayed absorption of a parenterally administered compound form is accomplished by dissolving or suspending the compound in an oil vehicle. Injectable depot forms are made by forming microencapsule matrices of the compound in biodegradable polymers such as polylactide polyglycolide. Depending upon the ratio of compound to polymer and the nature of the particular polymer employed the rate of compound release can be controlled. Examples of other biodegradable polymers include poly orthoesters and poly anhydrides . Depot injectable formulations are also prepared by entrapping the compound in liposomes or microemulsions that are compatible with body tissues.

Solid dosage forms for oral administration include capsules tablets pills powders and granules. In such solid dosage forms the active compound is mixed with at least one inert pharmaceutically acceptable excipient or carrier such as sodium citrate or dicalcium phosphate and or a fillers or extenders such as starches lactose sucrose glucose mannitol and silicic acid b binders such as for example carboxymethylcellulose alginates gelatin polyvinylpyrrolidinone sucrose and acacia c humectants such as glycerol d disintegrating agents such as agar agar calcium carbonate potato or tapioca starch alginic acid certain silicates and sodium carbonate e solution retarding agents such as paraffin f absorption accelerators such as quaternary ammonium compounds g wetting agents such as for example cetyl alcohol and glycerol monostearate h absorbents such as kaolin and bentonite clay and i lubricants such as talc calcium stearate magnesium stearate solid polyethylene glycols sodium lauryl sulfate and mixtures thereof. In the case of capsules tablets and pills the dosage form may also comprise buffering agents.

Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed as fillers in soft and hard filled gelatin capsules using such excipients as lactose or milk sugar as well as high molecular weight polyethylene glycols and the like. The solid dosage forms of tablets dragees capsules pills and granules can be prepared with coatings and shells such as enteric coatings and other coatings well known in the pharmaceutical formulating art. They may optionally contain opacifying agents and can also be of a composition that they release the active ingredient s only or preferentially in a certain part of the intestinal tract optionally in a delayed manner Examples of embedding compositions that can be used include polymeric substances and waxes. Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed as fillers in soft and hard filled gelatin capsules using such excipients as lactose or milk sugar as well as high molecular weight polyethylene glycols and the like.

Provided compounds can also be in micro encapsulated form with one or more excipients as noted above. The solid dosage forms of tablets dragees capsules pills and granules can be prepared with coatings and shells such as enteric coatings release controlling coatings and other coatings well known in the pharmaceutical formulating art. In such solid dosage forms the active compound may be admixed with at least one inert diluent such as sucrose lactose or starch. Such dosage forms may also comprise as is normal practice additional substances other than inert diluents e.g. tableting lubricants and other tableting aids such a magnesium stearate and microcrystalline cellulose. In the case of capsules tablets and pills the dosage forms may also comprise buffering agents. They may optionally contain opacifying agents and can also be of a composition that they release the active ingredient s only or preferentially in a certain part of the intestinal tract optionally in a delayed manner Examples of embedding compositions that can be used include polymeric substances and waxes.

Dosage forms for topical or transdermal administration of a compound of this invention include ointments pastes creams lotions gels powders solutions sprays inhalants or patches. The active component is admixed under sterile conditions with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and any needed preservatives or buffers as may be required. Ophthalmic formulation ear drops and eye drops are also contemplated as being within the scope of this invention. Additionally the present invention contemplates the use of transdermal patches which have the added advantage of providing controlled delivery of a compound to the body. Such dosage forms can be made by dissolving or dispensing the compound in the proper medium. Absorption enhancers can also be used to increase the flux of the compound across the skin. The rate can be controlled by either providing a rate controlling membrane or by dispersing the compound in a polymer matrix or gel.

Pharmaceutically acceptable compositions provided herein may be formulated for oral administration. Such formulations may be administered with or without food. In some embodiments pharmaceutically acceptable compositions of this disclosure are administered without food. In other embodiments pharmaceutically acceptable compositions of this disclosure are administered with food.

The amount of provided compounds that may be combined with carrier materials to produce a composition in a single dosage form will vary depending upon the patient to be treated and the particular mode of administration.

It should also be understood that a specific dosage and treatment regimen for any particular patient will depend upon a variety of factors including age body weight general health sex diet time of administration rate of excretion drug combination the judgment of the treating physician and the severity of the particular disease being treated. The amount of a provided compound in the composition will also depend upon the particular compound in the composition.

Compounds and compositions described herein are generally useful for the inhibition of ROR. Thus in some embodiments the present invention provides a method of treating inflammatory metabolic and autoimmune diseases or disorders mediated by ROR comprising administering a provided compound or composition. More particularly the compounds and compositions described herein act as inverse agonists or antagonists of ROR.

As used herein the terms treatment treat and treating refer to reversing alleviating delaying the onset of or inhibiting the progress of a disease or disorder or one or more symptoms thereof as described herein. In some embodiments treatment may be administered after one or more symptoms have developed i.e. therapeutic treatment. In other embodiments treatment may be administered in the absence of symptoms. For example treatment may be administered to a susceptible individual prior to the onset of symptoms e.g. in light of a history of symptoms and or in light of genetic or other susceptibility factors i.e. prophylactic treatment. Treatment may also be continued after symptoms have resolved for example to prevent or delay their recurrence.

Diseases and conditions treatable according to the methods of the invention include but are not limited to inflammatory metabolic and autoimmune diseases or disorders mediated by ROR. These diseases and conditions include for example asthma chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD bronchitis allergic rhinitis atopic dermatitis contact dermatitis acne urticaria hives angioedema cystic fibrosis allograft rejection multiple sclerosis Balo s concentric circular sclerosis Balo disease leukoencephalitis periaxialis concentrica encephalitis periaxialis concentrica scleroderma limited scleroderma CREST syndrome arthritis rheumatoid arthritis juvenile rheumatoid arthritis reactive arthritis Reiter s syndrome osteoarthritis ankylosing spondylitis systemic lupus erythematosus SLE psoriasis plaque psoriasis guttate psoriasis inverse psoriasis pustular psoriasis erythrodermic psoriasis psoriatic epidermal hyperplasia epidermal hyperplasia Hashimoto s disease pancreatitis autoimmune diabetes type I diabetes autoimmune ocular disease ulcerative colitis Crohn s disease regional enteritis inflammatory bowel disease IBD inflammatory bowel syndrome IBS Sj gren s syndrome optic neuritis obesity hepatosteatosis adipose tissue associated inflammation insulin resistance type II diabetes neuromyelitis optica myasthenia gravis age related macular degeneration dry eye uveitis Guillain Barr syndrome psoriasis psoriatic arthritis PsA steroid resistant asthma Graves disease scleritis endometriosis obstructive sleep apnea syndrome OSAS Behet s disease dermatomyositis polymyositis graft versus host disease chronic graft versus host disease acute graft versus host disease primary biliary cirrhosis liver fibrosis non alcoholic fatty liver disease NAFLD sarcoidosis primary sclerosing cholangitis autoimmune thyroid disease autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome type I autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome type II celiac disease celiac sprue neuromyelitis juvenile idiopathic arthritis systemic sclerosis myocardial infarction pulmonary hypertension osteoarthritis cutaneous leishmaniasis sinonasal polyposis cancer including but not limited to lung cancer gastric cancer breast cancer and colon cancer thrombocytopenic purpura idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura ITP immune thrombocytopenic purpura cartilage inflammation bone degradation vasculitis acute disseminated encephalomyelitis ADEM acute necrotizing hemorrhagic leukoencephalitis Addison s disease agammaglobulinemia alopecia areata amyloidosis anti glomerular basement membrane GBM nephritis anti tubular basement membrane TBM nephritis antiphospholipid syndrome APS autoimmune angioedema autoimmune aplastic anemia autoimmune dysautonomia autoimmune hepatitis autoimmune hyperlipidemia autoimmune immunodeficiency autoimmune inner ear disease AIED autoimmune myocarditis autoimmune oophoritis autoimmune pancreatitis autoimmune retinopathy autoimmune thrombocytopenic purpura ATP autoimmune thyroid disease autoimmune urticaria axonal and neuronal neuropathies bullous pemphigoid cardiomyopathy Castleman disease Chagas disease chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy CIDP chronic recurrent multifocal ostomyelitis CRMO Churg Strauss syndrome cicatricial pemphigoid benign mucosal pemphigoid Cogan s syndrome cold agglutinin disease congenital heart block coxsackie myocarditis essential mixed cryoglobulinemia demyelinating neuropathies dermatitis herpetiformis Devic s disease neuromyelitis optica discoid lupus Dressler s syndrome eosinophilic esophagitis eosinophilic fascitis erythema nodosum experimental allergic encephalomyelitis Evans syndrome fibrosing alveolitis giant cell arteritis temporal arteritis giant cell myocarditis glomerulonephritis Goodpasture s syndrome granulomatosis with polyangiitis GPA Wegener s granulomatosis Hashimoto s encephalitis Hashimoto s thyroiditis hemolytic anemia Henoch Schonlein purpura herpes gestationis hypogammaglobulinemia IgA nephropathy IgG4 related sclerosing disease immunoregulatory lipoproteins inclusion body myositis interstitial cystitis juvenile myositis Kawasaki syndrome Lambert Eaton syndrome leukocytoclastic vasculitis lichen planus lichen sclerosus ligneous conjunctivitis linear IgA disease LAD chronic Lyme disease Meniere s disease microscopic polyangiitis mixed connective tissue disease MCTD Mooren s ulcer Mucha Habermann disease myositis narcolepsy neuromyelitis optica Devic s syndrome neutropenia ocular cicatricial pemphigoid optic neuritis palindromic rheumatism pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders associated with streptococcus PANDAS paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria PNH Parry Romberg syndrome Parsonnage Turner syndrome pars planitis peripheral uveitis pemphigus peripheral neuropathy perivenous encephalomyelitis pernicious anemia POEMS syndrome polyarteritis nodosa type I autoimmune polyglandular syndrome type II autoimmune polyglandular syndrome type III autoimmune polyglandular syndrome polymyalgia rheumatic postmyocardial infarction syndrome postpericardiotomy syndrome progesterone dermatitis primary biliary cirrhosis primary sclerosing cholangitis idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis pyoderma gangrenosum pure red cell aplasia Raynaud s phenomenon reflex sympathetic dystrophy relapsing polychondritis restless legs syndrome retroperitoneal fibrosis rheumatic fever rheumatoid arthritis sarcoidosis Schmidt syndrome sperm autoimmunity stiff person syndrome subacute bacterial endocarditis SBE Susac s syndrome sympathetic ophthalmia Takayasu s arteritis temporal arteritis giant cell arteritistesticular autoimmunity Tolosa Hunt syndrome transverse myelitis undifferentiated connective tissue disease UCTD vesiculobullous dermatosis and vitiligo.

Also included are diseases or disorders which are implicated by the regulation of the circadian rhythm of individuals and include e.g. major depression seasonal affective disorder post traumatic stress disorder PTSD bipolar disorder autism epilepsy Alzheimer s and other central nervous system CNS disorders associated with altered sleep and or circadian rhythms.

In one embodiment a human patient is treated with a compound of the invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier adjuvant or vehicle wherein said compound is present in an amount to treat or ameliorate one or more of the diseases and conditions recited above. In another embodiment the diseases and conditions treated or ameliorated by a compound of the invention include i.e. asthma COPD bronchitis allergic rhinitis atopic dermatitis contact dermatitis acne urticaria cystic fibrosis allograft rejection multiple sclerosis scleroderma arthritis rheumatoid arthritis juvenile rheumatoid arthritis osteoarthritis ankylosing spondylitis SLE psoriasis Hashimoto s disease pancreatitis autoimmune diabetes type I diabetes autoimmune ocular disease ulcerative colitis Crohn s disease regional enteritis IBD IBS Sj gren s syndrome optic neuritis obesity hepatosteatosis adipose tissue associated inflammation insulin resistance type II diabetes neuromyelitis optica myasthenia gravis age related macular degeneration dry eye uveitis Guillain Barr syndrome psoriasis PsA steroid resistant asthma Graves disease scleritis major depression seasonal affective disorder PTSD bipolar disorder autism epilepsy Alzheimer s CNS disorders associated with altered sleep and or circadian rhythms endometriosis OSAS Behet s disease dermatomyositis polymyocitis graft versus host disease primary biliary cirrhosis liver fibrosis NAFLD sarcoidosis primary sclerosing cholangitis autoimmune thyroid disease autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome type I autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome type II celiac disease neuromyelitis juvenile idiopathic arthritis systemic sclerosis myocardial infarction pulmonary hypertension osteoarthritis cutaneous leishmaniasis sinonasal polyposis and cancer. In an alternative embodiment the diseases and conditions treated or ameliorated by a compound of the invention include e.g. asthma atopic dermatitis acne Crohn s disease regional enteritis ulcerative colitis Sj gren s syndrome uveitis Behet s disease dermatomyositis multiple sclerosis ankylosing spondylitis SLE scleroderma psoriasis PsA steroid resistant asthma and rheumatoid arthritis in the patient.

The invention further relates to a combination therapy for treating or ameliorating a disease or a disorder described herein. In some embodiments the combination therapy comprises administering at least one compound of the invention in combination with one or more agents for treating or ameliorating inflammatory metabolic and autoimmune diseases or disorders mediated by ROR. In some embodiments the combination therapy comprises administering at least one compound of the invention in combination with one or more agents for treating or ameliorating a disease or a disorder described herein. In some embodiments the combination therapy comprises administering at least one compound of the invention in combination with one or more agents for the treatment of diseases including asthma atopic dermatitis acne Crohn s disease regional enteritis ulcerative colitis Sj gren s syndrome uveitis Behet s disease dermatomyositis multiple sclerosis ankylosing spondylitis SLE scleroderma psoriasis PsA steroid resistant asthma and rheumatoid arthritis.

The compounds according to the invention may also be used in combination with immunotherapies for the treatment of a disease or disorder disclosed herein.

Combination therapy includes e.g. co administration of a compound of the invention and one or more other agents sequential administration of a compound of the invention and one or more other agents administration of a composition containing a compound of the invention and one or more other agents or simultaneous administration of separate compositions containing a compound of the invention and one or more other agents.

The invention further provides a method of treating a subject such as a human suffering from one of the abovementioned disorders or diseases.

The invention further relates to the use of provided compounds for the production of pharmaceutical compositions which are employed for the treatment and or prophylaxis and or amelioration of the diseases and disorders mentioned herein.

Compounds or compositions described herein may be administered using any amount and any route of administration effective for treating or lessening the severity of one or more of the diseases and conditions described herein. The exact amount required will vary from subject to subject depending on the species age and general condition of the subject the severity of the infection the particular agent its mode of administration and the like. Provided compounds are preferably formulated in unit dosage form for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. The expression unit dosage form as used herein refers to a physically discrete unit of agent appropriate for the patient to be treated. It will be understood however that the total daily usage of the compounds and compositions of the present disclosure will be decided by the attending physician within the scope of sound medical judgment. The specific effective dose level for any particular patient or organism will depend upon a variety of factors including the disorder being treated and the severity of the disorder the activity of the specific compound employed the specific composition employed the age body weight general health sex and diet of the patient the time of administration route of administration and rate of excretion of the specific compound employed the duration of the treatment drugs used in combination or coincidental with the specific compound employed and like factors well known in the medical arts.

Pharmaceutically acceptable compositions of this disclosure can be administered to humans and other animals orally rectally parenterally intracisternally intravaginally intraperitoneally topically as by powders ointments or drops bucally as an oral or nasal spray or the like depending on the severity of the infection being treated. In certain embodiments provided compounds may be administered orally or parenterally at dosage levels of about 0.01 mg kg to about 50 mg kg and preferably from about 1 mg kg to about 25 mg kg of subject body weight per day one or more times a day to obtain the desired therapeutic effect.

The term biological sample as used herein includes without limitation cell cultures or extracts thereof biopsied material obtained from a mammal or extracts thereof and blood saliva urine feces semen tears or other body fluids or extracts thereof.

The amount of both a provided compound and additional therapeutic agent in those compositions which comprise an additional therapeutic agent as described above that may be combined with the carrier materials to produce a single dosage form will vary depending upon the host treated and the particular mode of administration.

In those compositions which comprise an additional therapeutic agent that additional therapeutic agent and the provided compound may act synergistically. Therefore the amount of additional therapeutic agent in such compositions will be less than that required in a monotherapy utilizing only that therapeutic agent.

The amount of additional therapeutic agent present in the compositions of this disclosure will be no more than the amount that would normally be administered in a composition comprising that therapeutic agent as the only active agent.

As depicted in the Examples below in certain exemplary embodiments compounds are prepared according to the following general procedures. It will be appreciated that although the general methods depict the synthesis of certain compounds of the present invention the following general methods and other methods known to one of ordinary skill in the art can be applied to all compounds and subclasses and species of each of these compounds as described herein.

The compounds of the present invention can be readily prepared according to the following reaction schemes and examples or modifications thereof using readily available starting materials reagents and conventional synthesis procedures. Many of the reactions can also be carried out under microwave MW conditions or using conventional heating or utilizing other technologies such as solid phase reagents scavengers or flow chemistry. In these reactions it is also possible to make use of variants which are themselves known to those of ordinary skill in the art but are not mentioned in greater detail. Furthermore other methods for preparing compounds of the invention will be readily apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the art in light of the following reaction schemes and examples. In cases where synthetic intermediates and final products contain potentially reactive functional groups for example amino hydroxy thiol and carboxylic acid groups that may interfere with the desired reaction it may be advantageous to employ protected forms of the intermediate. Methods for the selection introduction and subsequent removal of protecting groups are well known to those skilled in the art. In the discussion below variables have the meanings indicated above unless otherwise indicated. The abbreviations used in these experimental details are listed below and additional ones should be known to a person skilled in the art of synthesis. In addition one can refer to the following references for suitable methods of synthesis as described in March Advanced Organic Chemistry 3rd edition John Wiley Sons 1985 Greene and Wuts Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis 2edition John Wiley Sons 1991 and Richard Larock Comprehensive Organic Transformations 4edition VCH publishers Inc. 1989.

Generally reagents in the reaction schemes are used in equimolar amounts however in certain cases it may be desirable to use an excess of one reagent to drive a reaction to completion. This is especially the case when the excess reagent can be readily removed by evaporation or extraction. Bases employed to neutralize HCl in reaction mixtures are generally used in slight to substantial excess 1.05 5 equivalents .

Where NMR data are presented spectra were obtained on a Varian 400 400 MHz or 300 300 MHz and are reported as ppm downfield from tetramethylsilane with number of proton multiplicities and coupling constants indicated parenthetically along with reference to deuterated solvent.

The invention is illustrated by way of the following examples in which the following abbreviations may be employed.

Compounds according to Formula I can be prepared by reacting an intermediate compound of Formula 500 with an alkyl or benzyl halide according to reaction Scheme 1 a reaction that is performed in a polar aprotic solvent such as for example acetonitrile in the presence of a suitable base such as for example N N diisopropylethylamine or potassium carbonate. Alternatively the final compounds according to Formula I can be prepared by reacting an intermediate compound of Formula 500 with an aldehyde according to reaction Scheme 1 following art known reductive amination procedure in the typical solvent such as for example dichloroethane dichloromethane or methanol in the presence of suitable reducing reagent such as sodium cyanoborohydride or sodium triacetoxyborohydride. In reaction Scheme 1 all variables are defined as in Formula I and Gis a leaving group such as for example bromide chloride mesylate methanesulfonate tosylate p toluenesulfonate trifluorormethanesulfonate triflate or iodide.

Intermediate compound of Formula 500 can be can be prepared by deprotecting an intermediate compound of Formula 501 wherein Pg is a suitable nitrogen protecting group Greene and Wuts Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis 2edition John Wiley Sons 1991 e.g. Pg tert butylcarbamate removed with trifluoroacetic acid according to Scheme 2. In reaction Scheme 2 all variables are defined as in Formula I .

Intermediate compound of Formula 501 can be prepared from a carboxylic acid 502 and an amine 503 according to Scheme 3. The reaction is conveniently carried out in the presence of an activating reagent for example N 3 Dimethylaminopropyl N ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride EDCI or O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate HATU in an organic solvent for example N N dimethylformamide or dichloromethane optionally in the presence of a base e.g. N N diisopropylethylamine or triethylamine at a temperature for example in the range from 0 to 60 C.

To a stirred solution of Boc Val OH 3.11 g 14.3 mmol in THF 40 mL at rt was added 1 1 carbonyldiimidazole 3.48 g 21.5 mmol . The mixture was stirred at rt for 1 h then magnesium chloride 1.36 g 14.3 mmol and ethyl potassium malonate 2.44 g 14.3 mmol were added successively. The mixture was then heated to 50 C. and stirred for 15 h. The mixture was cooled to rt and quenched with 1 N HCl 100 mL . The aqueous phase was extracted with EtOAc 3 100 mL then the combined organic layer was washed with brine 50 mL . The organic layer was dried over anhydrous MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with 5 EtOAc in hexanes to afford ethyl S 4 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 5 methyl 3 oxohexanoate 3.53 g 86 yield as a yellow oil. LC MS t 0.91 min in 1 min chromatography MS ESI m z 288.3 M H . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 5.08 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 4.33 dd J 4.4 Hz 8.8 Hz 1H 4.20 q J 7.2 Hz 2H 3.54 s 2H 2.27 2.17 m 1H 1.44 s 9H 1.27 t J 7.2 Hz 3H 1.01 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 0.82 d J 6.8 Hz 3H .

To a mixture of ethyl S 4 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 5 methyl 3 oxohexanoate 9.68 g 33.7 mmol from above in THF 100 mL at 0 C. was added potassium tert butoxide 3.78 g 35.4 mmol . The mixture was warmed to rt and stirred for 45 min at which point 1 4 diazabicyclo 2.2.2 octane 3.78 g 33.7 mmol and 2 chloro 1 3 bis dimethylamino trimethinium hexaflurophosphate 15.5 g 50.5 mmol were added successively. The mixture was heated to 45 C. and stirred for 3 h at which point ammonium acetate 5.19 g 67.4 mmol was added. The mixture was then heated to reflux and stirred for 15 h. It was then cooled to rt and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was dry loaded onto a silica gel column and purified eluting with 5 EtOAc in hexanes gradient to 15 to yield 6.09 g of ethyl S 2 1 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 2 methylpropyl 5 chloronicotinate 51 . LC MS t 1.14 min in 1 min chromatography MS ESI m z 357.3 M H . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.61 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 8.18 d J 2.8 Hz 1H 5.71 d J 9.6 Hz 1H 5.62 dd J 5.2 Hz 9.6 Hz 1H 4.42 q J 7.2 Hz 2H 2.08 2.00 m 1H 1.42 s 9H 1.42 t J 7.2 Hz 3H 0.93 d J 6.4 Hz 3H 0.83 d J 6.4 Hz 3H .

To a stirred solution of ethyl S 2 1 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 2 methylpropyl 5 chloronicotinate 6.09 g 17.1 mmol at 0 C. in EtOH 70 mL was added sodium borohydride 1.30 g 34.1 mmol . Calcium chloride 1.89 g 17.1 mmol was added portionwise while maintaining the temperature between 0 C. and 5 C. The resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 90 min then quenched slowly at 0 C. with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 100 mL . The aqueous phase was extracted with EtOAc 3 100 mL then the combined organic layer was washed with brine 50 mL dried over anhydrous MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Crude tert butyl S 1 5 chloro 3 hydroxymethyl pyridin 2 yl 2 methylpropyl carbamate was carried forward without any purification. LC MS t 0.94 min in 1 min chromatography MS ESI 315.3 M H . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.46 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 7.67 d J 2.8 Hz 1H 5.34 d J 9.2 Hz 1H 4.99 dd J 2.0 Hz 8.4 Hz 1H 4.54 t J 9.2 Hz 1H 4.41 dd J 10.0 Hz 12.4 Hz 1H 4.33 d J 10.0 Hz 1H 2.18 2.12 m 1H 1.36 s 9H 1.10 d J 6.4 Hz 3H 0.69 d J 6.8 Hz 3H .

To a solution of tert butyl S 1 5 chloro 3 hydroxymethyl pyridin 2 yl 2 methylpropyl carbamate 5.33 g 16.9 mmol in CHCl 70 mL at 0 C. was added triethylamine 3.54 mL 25.4 mmol and methanesulfonyl chloride 1.44 mL 18.6 mmol . The mixture was warmed to rt and stirred for 3 h at which point it was quenched with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 100 mL . The aqueous phase was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 100 mL . The combined organic layer was washed with brine 50 mL dried over anhydrous MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude residue a 3 1 mixture of S 2 1 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 2 methylpropyl 5 chloropyridin 3 yl methyl methanesulfonate and tert butyl S 1 5 chloro 3 chloromethyl pyridin 2 yl 2 methylpropyl carbamate was carried forward without any purification. LC MS t 1.01 min in 1 min chromatography MS ESI m z 393.3 M H . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.53 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 7.74 d J 2.8 Hz 1H 5.44 d J 12.4 Hz 1H 5.37 d J 12.8 Hz 1H 5.31 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 4.59 t J 9.2 Hz 1H 3.13 s 3H 2.13 2.04 m 1H 1.36 s 9H 1.03 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 0.77 d J 6.8 Hz 3H . Characterization data from a purified sample of S 2 1 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 2 methylpropyl 5 chloropyridin 3 yl methyl methanesulfonate.

To a solution of S 2 1 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 2 methylpropyl 5 chloropyridin 3 yl methyl methanesulfonate and tert butyl S 1 5 chloro 3 chloromethyl pyridin 2 yl 2 methylpropyl carbamate 3 1 mixture 6.39 g 16.9 mmol in THF 75 mL at 0 C. was added sodium hydride 60 dispersion in mineral oil 811 mg 20.3 mmol . The mixture was warmed to rt and stirred for 15 h at which point it was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 100 mL . The aqueous phase was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 100 mL . The combined organic layer was washed with brine 50 mL dried over anhydrous MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with 5 EtOAc in hexanes gradient to 10 to give tert butyl S 3 chloro 7 isopropyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 6 carboxylate 4.31 g 85 yield over 3 steps as a yellow oil. LC MS t 1.12 min in 1 min chromatography MS ESI m z 297.3 M H . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz mixture of rotamers 8.43 s 1H 7.56 s 0.6H 7.50 s 0.4H 4.96 s 0.4H 4.87 s 0.6H 4.86 d J 16.0 Hz 0.6H 4.74 d J 15.6 Hz 0.4H 4.52 d J 12.0 Hz 0.4H 4.49 d J 15.2 Hz 0.6H 2.60 2.51 m 0.4H 2.40 2.36 m 0.6H 1.49 s 9H 1.08 d J 7.2 Hz 1.2H 0.99 d J 7.2 Hz 1.8H 0.78 d J 6.8 Hz 1.8H 0.72 d J 6.8 Hz 1.2H .

Potassium carbonate 758 mg 5.49 mmol and 4 molecular sieves 250 mg were placed in a 50 mL round bottom flask which was then flame dried. Palladium II acetate 32.8 mg 146 mol and 1 3 bis dicyclohexylphosphonium propane bis tetrafluoroborate 179 mg 292 mol were added to the flask which was then sealed with a septum. Tert butyl S 3 chloro 7 isopropyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 6 carboxylate 1.09 g 3.66 mmol was dissolved in DMF 12 mL and added to the flask followed by 1 butanol 3.34 mL 36.6 mmol . The flask was then evacuated and backfilled with CO three times with the final time under a balloon of 1 atm of CO. The flask was heated to 100 C. and stirred for 6 h. The mixture was then cooled to rt and quenched with 1 N NaOH 25 mL . The mixture was stirred for 30 min at which point isopropyl acetate 50 mL was added. The phases were separated then the organic phase was extracted with 1 N NaOH 2 50 mL then the combined aqueous layer was acidified to pH 2 with concentrated HCl. The aqueous layer was then extracted with EtOAc 3 25 mL then the combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude residue S 6 tert butoxycarbonyl 7 isopropyl 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboxylic acid was carried forward without any purification.

To a mixture of S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl amino butanoic acid 200 g 0.985 mol in THF 1 L was added 1 1 carbonyldiimidazole 176 g 1.084 mol at rt. The mixture was stirred at rt for 1 h. Then magnesium chloride 101 g 1.084 mol and potassium 3 methoxy 3 oxopropanoate 169 g 1.084 mol were added. After addition the mixture was stirred at 50 C. for 3 h. TLC petroleum ether ethyl acetate 5 1 showed the starting material was consumed. The mixture was cooled and filtered the filter cake was washed with THF 300 mL and filtered. The combined filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was diluted with EtOAc 1 L washed with water 800 mL brine 800 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give S methyl 4 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 3 oxohexanoate 117 g 45 as a yellow oil which was used in the next step directly without further purification.

To a solution of S methyl 4 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 3 oxohexanoate 117 g 0.452 mol in anhydrous THF 1.0 L was added potassium tert butoxide 51.3 g 0.474 mol in portions at 0 C. After stirring for 1 h at 0 C. 1 4 diazabicyclo 2.2.2 octane 53.1 g 0.474 mol and 2 chloro 1 3 bis dimethylamino trimethinium hexafluorophosphate 145 g 0.474 mol were added portionwise to the mixture at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at rt for 3 h and the solution turned red. Ammonium acetate 104 g 1.355 mol was added to the solution and the resulting mixture was stirred at rt overnight. TLC petroleum ether ethyl acetate 5 1 showed no starting material remaining. The mixture was cooled and filtered the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was diluted with EtOAc 1.5 L and washed with water 1 L brine 1 L dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 25 1 17 1 to give S methyl 2 1 tert butoxycarbonyl amino propyl 5 chloronicotinate 53 g 36 as a yellow oil. LC MS t 0.961 min in 5 95AB 1.5 min chromatography Merck RP 18e 25 2 mm MS ESI m z 272.9 M 55 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.61 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 8.18 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 5.71 5.54 m 1H 3.94 s 3H 1.86 1.83 m 1H 1.60 1.58 m 1H 1.26 s 9H 0.95 t J 7.2 Hz 3H .

To a solution of S methyl 2 1 tert butoxycarbonyl amino propyl 5 chloronicotinate 60 g 0.183 mol in anhydrous ethanol 800 mL was added sodium borohydride portionwise 14.0 g 0.366 mol at 0 C. slowly and stirred for about 20 min To the resulting mixture was added calcium chloride 20.1 g 0.183 mol at 0 C. slowly in four portions. The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1.5 h. TLC petroleum ether ethyl acetate 5 1 showed no starting material remaining. The mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl solution 50 mL at 0 C. slowly and then stirred for 30 min. The mixture was concentrated to remove part of the ethanol then extracted with ethyl acetate 3 1.0 L . The combined organic layers were washed with water 2 1.0 L and saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution 500 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give S tert butyl 1 5 chloro 3 hydroxymethyl pyridin 2 yl propyl carbamate 50 g 91 as a yellow solid which was used directly for the next step without further purification. LC MS t 0.703 min in 5 95AB 1.5 min chromatography Merck RP 18e 25 2 mm MS ESI m z 244.9 M 55 .

To a solution of S tert butyl 1 5 chloro 3 hydroxymethyl pyridin 2 yl propyl carbamate 50 g 0.167 mol in CHCl 500 mL was added triethylamine 50.5 g 0.499 mol and p toluenesulfonyl chloride 63 g 0.333 mol at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at rt for 1.5 h. TLC petroleum ether ethyl acetate 5 1 showed no starting material remaining. The mixture was diluted with CHCl 500 mL washed with water 2 1.0 L and brine 1 L dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 0 to 10 1 to give S tert butyl 1 5 chloro 3 chloromethyl pyridin 2 yl propyl carbamate 11 g 21 as a red solid and S 2 1 tert butoxycarbonyl amino propyl 5 chloropyridin 3 yl methyl 4 methylbenzenesulfonate 23 g 30 as a yellow solid. LC MS t 0.840 min in 5 95AB 1.5 min chromatography Merck RP 18e 25 2 mm MS ESI m z 262.9 M 55 .

Procedure same as that for tert butyl S 3 chloro 7 isopropyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 6 carboxylate with S tert butyl 1 5 chloro 3 chloromethyl pyridin 2 yl propyl carbamate 11 g 34.6 mmol and S 2 1 tert butoxycarbonyl amino propyl 5 chloropyridin 3 yl methyl 4 methylbenzenesulfonate as the starting materials. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.45 s 1H 7.56 s 0.6H 7.50 s 0.4H 5.30 s 0.4H 4.94 s 0.6H 4.77 d J 15.6 Hz 0.6H 4.70 d J 15.6 Hz 0.4H 4.55 s 0.6H 4.51 s 0.4H 2.26 2.14 m 1H 2.04 1.96 m 1H 1.51 s 9H 0.67 t J 7.6 Hz 3H .

Potassium carbonate 33.8 g 24.5 mmol and 4 molecular sieves 11.30 g were placed in a 50 mL round bottom flask which was then flame dried. Palladium II acetate 757 mg 3.26 mmol and 1 3 bis dicyclohexylphosphonium propane bis tetrafluoroborate 3.98 g 6.52 mmol were added to the flask which was then sealed with a septum. S tert butyl 3 chloro 7 ethyl 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 6 7H carboxylate 23 g 81.5 mmol was dissolved in DMF 250 mL and added to the flask followed by 1 butanol 60.4 g 815 mmol . The flask was then evacuated and backfilled with CO four times. CO gas from a gas bag a volume of 30 L was then bubbled into the flask with heating to 100 C. overnight. LCMS showed no starting material remaining. The reaction was then cooled to rt and 6 g of NaOH in 100 ml water was added. After stirring for 1 h LCMS showed a 100 conversion to the acid product. The mixture was acidified to pH 3 4 with 1 N HCl solution and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 1 L . The combined organic layers were washed with water 2 1 L and brine 1 L dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 20 1 1 1 to give the desired product 20 g 84 ee 28.24 which was then purified by SFC separation to give S 6 tert butoxycarbonyl 7 ethyl 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboxylic acid 9 g ee 95.49 as a yellow solid. LC MS t 0.813 min in 5 95AB 1.5 min chromatography Merck RP 18e 25 2 mm MS ESI m z 292.9 M H . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 9.23 s 1H 7.28 s 0.6H 8.23 s 0.4H 5.21 s 0.4H 5.11 s 0.6H 4.89 d J 16.0 Hz 0.6H 4.80 d J 15.6 Hz 0.4H 4.65 s 0.6H 4.61 s 0.4H 2.25 2.14 m 1H 2.08 2.04 m 1H 1.53 s 9H 0.68 t J 7.6 Hz 3H . Isomer SFC 1215 186 P1A 1 t 6.71 in 15 min chromatography Column AD H Method Name 5 40 2.5 ml.met ee 95.49 .

Procedure same as that for R E N 2 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy ethylidene 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide with tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 carbaldehyde and R 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide as the starting martials. LC MS t 1.072 min in 5 95AB 1.5 min chromatography Merck RP 18e 25 2 mm MS ESI m z 217.9 M H .

A mixture of 2 5 dibromo 3 methylpyridine 20.0 g 80.0 mmol N bromosuccinimide 12.8 g 72 mmol and benzoyl peroxide 1.03 g 4 mmol in CCl 300 mL was heated to reflux for 3 h. The mixture was cooled to rt washed with water 2 100 mL and brine 100 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC HCl to give 2 5 dibromo 3 bromomethyl pyridine 11.0 g 42 as a white solid. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.38 8.39 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 7.91 7.92 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 4.51 s 2H .

A mixture of 2 5 dibromo 3 bromomethyl pyridine 11.0 g 33.3 mmol and sodium methoxide 5.4 g 100 mmol in methanol 150 mL was stirred at rt for 18 h. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 to give 2 5 dibromo 3 methoxymethyl pyridine 8.7 g 93 as a liquid. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.35 s 1H 7.93 s 1H 4.45 s 2H 3.53 s 3H .

Procedure same as that for R N R 2 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy 1 4 ethylthio phenyl ethyl 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide with 2 5 dibromo 3 methoxymethyl pyridine and R tert butylsulfonamide as the starting materials. LC MS t 0.824 min in 5 95AB 1.5 min chromatography Merck RP 18e 25 2 mm MS ESI 420.9 M 1 . Isomer SFC t 11.19 and 11.71 in 25 min chromatography Column AS RH 10 80 B 08 ML 25 MIN ee 97.16 .

To a solution of R N S 5 bromo 3 methoxymethyl pyridin 2 yl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl methyl 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide 1.5 g 3.6 mmol in CHCl 30 mL was added boron tribromide 4.5 g 18.0 mmol at 30 C. The mixture was stirred at 30 C. for 2 h. MeOH 5 mL was then carefully added to the mixture at 30 C. and the reaction was allowed to warm to rt. Upon reaching rt the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to afford crude S 2 amino tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl methyl 5 bromopyridin 3 yl methanol 1.0 g crude as an oil which was used for the next step without further purification. LC MS t 0.176 min in 0 30 CD POS.M Merck RP 18e 25 2 mm MS ESI m z 303.0 M 1 .

A mixture of S 2 amino tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl methyl 5 bromopyridin 3 yl methanol 1.0 g 3.3 mmol di tert butyl dicarbonate 1.1 g 5.0 mmol and triethylamine 1.0 g 10 mmol in CHCl 10 mL was stirred at rt for 16 h. The mixture was quenched with water 10 mL and extracted with CHCl 3 10 mL . The combined organic layer was washed with brine 2 10 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 5 1 3 1 to give S tert butyl 5 bromo 3 hydroxymethyl pyridin 2 yl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl methyl carbamate 500 mg 38 as an oil. LC MS t 2.870 min in 0 30CD POS.M chromatography Merck RP 18e 25 2 mm MS ESI m z 401.1 M 1 .

Procedure same as that for S 2 1 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 2 methylpropyl 5 chloropyridin 3 yl methyl methanesulfonate with S tert butyl 5 bromo 3 hydroxymethyl pyridin 2 yl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl methyl carbamate as the starting material. LC MS t 0.943 min in 5 95AB 1.5 min chromatography Merck RP 18e 25 2 mm MS ESI m z 365.0 M 1 .

Procedure same as that for tert butyl S 3 chloro 7 isopropyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 6 carboxylate with S tert butyl 5 bromo 3 chloromethyl pyridin 2 yl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl methyl carbamate 350 mg 0.83 mmol as the starting material. LC MS t 1.723 min in 5 95AB 1.5 min chromatography Merck RP 18e 25 2 mm MS ESI m z 385.1 M 1 . Isomer SFC t 2.930 and 4.433 in 12 min chromatography Column AD 3 B2 5 40 25 ML ee 97.80 .

Procedure same as that for S 6 tert butoxycarbonyl 7 isopropyl 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboxylic acid with S tert butyl 3 bromo 7 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 6 7H carboxylate as the starting material. LC MS t 0.685 min in 5 95AB 1.5 min chromatography Merck RP 18e 25 2 mm MS ESI 349.1 M 1 . Isomer SFC t 5.146 and 5.602 in 15 min chromatography Column AD H 5 5 40 2.35 ML ee 95.89 .

To a mixture of dihydro 2H pyran 4 3H one 22.5 g 225 mmol in acetonitrile 500 mL was added carbethoxymethylene triphenylphosphorane 86.1 g 247 mmol at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at 85 90 C. oil bath for 48 h. LCMS showed a strong product peak and most of carbethoxymethylene triphenylphosphorane consumed. The mixture was cooled to rt filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 to give ethyl 2 dihydro 2H pyran 4 3H ylidene acetate 38 g 99 as a yellow solid. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 5.66 s 1H 4.09 4.14 q J 7.2 Hz 2H 3.71 3.77 m 4H 2.98 3.01 t J 5.2 Hz 2H 2.30 2.32 t J 4.8 Hz 2H 1.24 1.28 t J 7.2 Hz 3H .

A mixture of ethyl 2 dihydro 2H pyran 4 3H ylidene acetate 21 g 123 mmol and dry Pd C 2.5 g in methanol 300 mL was stirred at 16 19 C. for 18 h under H 30 psi . TLC petroleum ether ethyl acetate 3 1 showed no starting material remaining. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to give crude ethyl 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl acetate 20 g 94 as an oil which was used for the next step directly without further purification. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 4.11 4.15 q J 7.2 Hz 2H 3.93 3.95 d J 10.8 Hz 2H 3.37 3.43 t J 11.6 Hz 2H 2.23 2.25 d J 6.8 Hz 2H 1.99 2.03 m 1H 1.62 1.65 m 2H 1.32 1.36 m 2H 1.24 1.27 t J 7.2 Hz 3H .

To a mixture of ethyl 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl acetate 20 g 116 mmol in anhydrous THF 300 mL was added lithium aluminum hydride 8.8 g 232 mmol portionwise at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at 11 13 C. for 18 h. TLC petroleum ether ethyl acetate 3 1 showed no starting material remaining. The mixture was quenched with water 9 mL 10 aq. NaOH solution 9 mL and water 18 mL successively at 0 C. filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give crude 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl ethanol 11.7 g 77 as an oil which was used for the next step directly without further purification. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 3.86 3.90 m 2H 3.58 3.61 t J 6.4 Hz 2H 3.32 3.35 t J 11.6 Hz 2H 2.69 2.70 m 1H 1.61 1.63 m 3H 1.54 1.60 m 2H 1.43 1.45 m 2H .

A mixture of 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl ethanol 11.70 g 89.9 mmol and pyridinium chlorochromate 38.8 g 179.8 mmol in CHCl 200 mL was stirred at 16 19 C. for 17 h. TLC petroleum ether ethyl acetate 3 1 showed the reaction was complete. The mixture was filtered with Kieselguhr and the filtrate 150 mL was used for the next step directly without further purification.

Procedure same as that for R E N 2 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy ethylidene 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide with 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl acetaldehyde and R 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide 21.8 g 179.8 mmol as the starting materials. LC MS t 1.082 min in 10 80AB 2.0 min chromatography Xtimate 3 um C18 2.1 30 mm MS ESI m z 232.0 M H . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.06 8.09 t J 5.2 Hz 1H 3.38 3.44 m 4H 2.47 2.50 m 2H 2.29 2.31 m 1H 1.62 1.68 m 4H .

Procedure same as that for R N R 2 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy 1 4 ethylthio phenyl ethyl 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide with 2 5 dibromo 3 methoxymethyl pyridine and R E 2 methyl N 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl ethylidene propane 2 sulfinamide as the starting materials. LC MS t 0.849 min in 5 95AB 1.5 min chromatography Merck RP 18e 25 2 mm MS ESI m z 433.0 M H . Isomer SFC t 12.39 in 25 min chromatography Column AD RH 10 80 B 08 ML 25 min ee 97.16 . Another Isomer LC MS t 1.081 min in 10 80AB 2.0 min chromatography Xtimate 2.1 30 mm 3 um MS ESI m z 433.0 M H . Isomer SFC t 13.04 and 15.09 in 25 min chromatography Column AD RH 10 80 B 08 ML 25 min ee 96.46 .

Procedure same as that for S 2 amino tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl methyl 5 bromopyridin 3 yl methanol with R N S 1 5 bromo 3 methoxymethyl pyridin 2 yl 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl ethyl 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide as the starting material. LC MS t 0.307 min in 0 30AB 2.0 min chromatography Xtimate 2.1 30 mm 3 um MS ESI m z 315.0 M H .

Procedure same as that for S tert butyl 5 bromo 3 hydroxymethyl pyridin 2 yl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl methyl carbamate with S 2 1 amino 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl ethyl 5 bromopyridin 3 yl methanol as the starting material. LC MS t 0.716 min in 5 95AB 1.5 min chromatography MK RP 18e 25 2 mm MS ESI m z 414.9 M H .

Procedure same as that for S 2 1 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 2 methylpropyl 5 chloropyridin 3 yl methyl methanesulfonate with S tert butyl 1 5 bromo 3 hydroxymethyl pyridin 2 yl 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl ethylcarbamate as the starting material. LC MS t 0.962 min in 5 95AB 1.5 min chromatography Merck RP 18e 25 2 mm MS ESI m z 434.9 M 1 .

Procedure same as that for tert butyl S 3 chloro 7 isopropyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 6 carboxylate with S tert butyl 1 5 bromo 3 chloromethyl pyridin 2 yl 2 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl ethylcarbamate as the starting material. LC MS t 0.792 min in 5 95AB 1.5 min chromatography MK RP 18e 25 2 mm MS ESI m z 396.9 M H .

Procedure same as that for S 6 tert butoxycarbonyl 7 isopropyl 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboxylic acid with S tert butyl 3 bromo 7 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl methyl 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 6 7H carboxylate as the starting material. LC MS t 0.990 min in 10 80AB 2.0 min chromatography Xtimate 3 um C18 2.1 30 mm MS ESI m z 363.1 M 1 .

Procedure same as that for ethyl S 4 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 5 methyl 3 oxohexanoate with S 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 3 phenylpropanoic acid as the starting material.

Procedure same as that for S 2 1 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 2 methylpropyl 5 chloronicotinate with S methyl 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 3 oxo 5 phenylpentanoate as the starting material. LC MS t 1.007 min in 5 95AB 1.5 min chromatography MK RP18e 25 2 mm MS ESI m z 335.1 M 55 .

Procedure same as that for tert butyl S 1 5 chloro 3 hydroxymethyl pyridin 2 yl 2 methylpropyl carbamate with S methyl 2 1 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 phenylethyl 5 chloronicotinate as the starting material. LC MS t 0.812 min in 5 95AB 1.5 min chromatography MK RP18e 25 2 mm MS ESI m z 362.9 306.8 M H M 55 .

Procedure same as that for S 2 1 tert butoxycarbonyl amino propyl 5 chloropyridin 3 yl methyl 4 methylbenzenesulfonate with S tert butyl 1 5 chloro 3 hydroxymethyl pyridin 2 yl 2 phenylethylcarbamate as the starting material. LC MS t 1.069 min in 5 95AB 1.5 min chromatography MK RP18e 25 2 mm MS ESI m z 539.1 M 23 .

Procedure same as that for tert butyl S 3 chloro 7 isopropyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 6 carboxylate with S 2 1 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 phenylethyl 5 chloropyridin 3 yl methyl 4 methylbenzenesulfonate as the starting material. LC MS t 0.995 min in 5 95AB 1.5 min chromatography MK RP18e 25 2 mm MS ESI m z 345.1 M H .

Procedure same as that for S 6 tert butoxycarbonyl 7 isopropyl 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboxylic acid with S tert butyl 7 benzyl 3 chloro 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 6 7H carboxylate as the starting material. LC MS t 0.869 min in 5 95AB 1.5 min chromatography MK RP18e 25 2 mm MS ESI m z 355.2 M H .

Procedure same as that for ethyl S 4 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 5 methyl 3 oxohexanoate with 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino propanoic acid as the starting material. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 5.05 5.26 m 1H 4.28 4.39 m 1H 3.72 s 3H 3.50 3.62 m 2H 1.42 s 9H 1.30 1.35 d J 7.2 Hz 3H .

Procedure same as that for S 2 1 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 2 methylpropyl 5 chloronicotinate with methyl 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 3 oxopentanoate as the starting material. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.57 8.68 d J 2.8 Hz 1H 8.14 8.24 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 5.55 5.91 m 2H 3.95 s 3H 1.34 1.47 m 12H . LCMS t 1.063 min in 10 80AB 2.0 min chromatography Xbridge Shield RP18 2.1 50 mm MS ESI m z 315.1 M H .

Procedure same as that for tert butyl S 1 5 chloro 3 hydroxymethyl pyridin 2 yl 2 methylpropyl carbamate with methyl 2 1 tert butoxycarbonylamino ethyl 5 chloronicotinate as the starting material. LCMS t 0.887 min in 10 80AB 2.0 min chromatography Xbridge Shield RP18 2.1 50 mm MS ESI m z 287.1 M H .

Procedure same as that for S 2 1 tert butoxycarbonyl amino propyl 5 chloropyridin 3 yl methyl 4 methylbenzenesulfonate with tert butyl 1 5 chloro 3 hydroxymethyl pyridin 2 yl ethylcarbamate as the starting material. LCMS t 1.086 min in 10 80AB 2.0 min chromatography Xbridge Shield RP18 2.1 50 mm MS ESI m z 305.1 M H .

Procedure same as that for tert butyl S 3 chloro 7 isopropyl 5 7 dihydro 6H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 6 carboxylate with tert butyl 1 5 chloro 3 chloromethyl pyridin 2 yl ethylcarbamate as the starting material. LCMS t 1.047 min in 10 80AB 2.0 min chromatography Xbridge Shield RP18 2.1 50 mm MS ESI m z 269.1 M H .

Procedure same as that for S 6 tert butoxycarbonyl 7 isopropyl 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboxylic acid with tert butyl 3 chloro 7 methyl 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 6 7H carboxylate as the starting material. LCMS t 0.882 min in 10 80AB 2.0 min chromatography Xbridge Shield RP18 2.1 50 mm MS ESI m z 279.1 M H .

To a solution of S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 3 hydroxypropanoic acid 30 g 0.146 mol in anhydrous DMF 300 mL was added tert butylchlorodimethylsilane 21.90 g 0.146 mol and imidazole 19.80 g 0.292 mol at 0 C. then the mixture was stirred at rt for 18 h. The mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 300 mL and water 30 mL extracted with ethyl acetate 3 300 mL washed with water 2 1000 mL brine 2 1000 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated to give S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 3 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy propanoic acid 34 g 72 as a yellow oil. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 5.20 5.30 m 1H 4.25 4.35 m 1H 4.01 4.15 m 1H 3.75 3.85 m 1H 1.40 s 9H 0.82 s 9H 0.01 s 6H .

A mixture of S 2 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 3 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy propanoic acid 24.0 g 75.2 mmol 1 1 carbonyldiimidazole 14.6 g 90.2 mmol in THF 250 mL was stirred at rt for 1 h. Then potassium 3 methoxy 3 oxopropanoate 11.70 g 75.2 mmol and magnesium chloride 7.14 g 75.2 mmol were added. After addition the mixture was stirred at 50 C. for 16 h. TLC petroleum ether ethyl acetate 5 1 showed the starting material was consumed. The mixture was quenched with water 200 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 150 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution 500 mL and brine 500 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give S methyl 4 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 5 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy 3 oxopentanoate 28 g 100 crude as a yellow oil which was used for the next step directly without further purification. LCMS t 1.282 min in 10 80AB 2.0 min chromatography Xtimate 2.1 30 mm 3 um MS ESI m z 276.1 M 100 .

To a solution of S methyl 4 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 5 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy 3 oxopentanoate 32 g 85.3 mmol in THF 320 mL was added potassium tert butoxide 10.50 g 93.8 mmol at 0 C. After stirring for 45 min DABCO 10.5 g 93.8 mmol and 2 chloro 1 3 bis dimethylamino trimethinium hexafluorophosphate 27 g 89.5 mmol were added to the mixture at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at rt for 3 h. Ammonium acetate 7.20 g 93.8 mmol was added to the above solution and the resulting mixture was stirred at rt for 18 h. TLC petroleum ether ethyl acetate 5 1 showed the starting material was consumed. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was diluted with ethyl acetate 200 mL washed with water 3 100 mL and brine 100 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 gradient to 8 1 to give R methyl 5 chloro 2 2 2 3 3 10 10 hexamethyl 8 oxo 4 9 dioxa 7 aza 3 silaundecan 6 yl nicotinate 11 g 29 as a white solid. LCMS t 0.990 min in 10 80AB 2.0 min chromatography Xtimate 2.1 30 mm 3 um MS ESI m z 445.0 M H .

To a solution of R methyl 5 chloro 2 2 2 3 3 10 10 hexamethyl 8 oxo 4 9 dioxa 7 aza 3 silaundecan 6 yl nicotinate 4.0 g 9.0 mmol in ethanol 40 mL was added sodium borohydride 0.66 g 18.0 mmol and calcium chloride 1.0 g 9.0 mmol at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 2 h. TLC petroleum ether ethyl acetate 3 1 showed the starting material was consumed. The mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl solution 20 mL and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 20 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 20 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give R tert butyl 2 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy 1 5 chloro 3 hydroxymethyl pyridin 2 yl ethyl carbamate 3.45 g 92 as a colorless oil which was used for the next step directly without further purification.

To a solution of R tert butyl 2 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy 1 5 chloro 3 hydroxymethyl pyridin 2 yl ethyl carbamate 3.45 g 8.20 mmol in CHCl 40 mL was added p toluenesulfonyl chloride 3.15 g 16.40 mmol and triethylamine 2.48 g 24.60 mmol slowly at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 h. TLC petroleum ether ethyl acetate 5 1 showed the starting material was consumed. The mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution 20 mL extracted with ethyl acetate 3 20 mL and washed with brine 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 gradient to 5 1 to give R 5 chloro 2 2 2 3 3 10 10 hexamethyl 8 oxo 4 9 dioxa 7 aza 3 silaundecan 6 yl pyridin 3 yl methyl 4 methylbenzenesulfonate 3.15 g 66 as a colorless oil. LCMS t 1.497 min in 10 80AB 2.0 min chromatography Xtimate 2.1 30 mm 3 um MS ESI m z 571.0 M H .

To a solution of R 5 chloro 2 2 2 3 3 10 10 hexamethyl 8 oxo 4 9 dioxa 7 aza 3 silaundecan 6 yl pyridin 3 yl methyl 4 methylbenzenesulfonate 3.15 g 5.5 mmol in DMF 30 mL was added sodium hydride 0.66 g 16.5 mmol 60 disperion in mineral oil at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 h. TLC petroleum ether ethyl acetate 5 1 showed the starting material was consumed. The mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl solution 30 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 20 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 20 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 gradient to 5 1 to give R tert butyl 7 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy methyl 3 chloro 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 6 7H carboxylate 1.20 g 54 as a colorless oil. LCMS t 1.323 min in 10 80AB 2.0 min chromatography Xtimate ODS 2.1 30 mm 3 um MS ESI m z 343.1 M 55 .

Procedure same as that for S 6 tert butoxycarbonyl 7 ethyl 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboxylic acid with R tert butyl 7 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy methyl 3 chloro 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 6 7H carboxylate as the starting material. LCMS t 3.835 min in 10 80AB 7.0 min chromatography Xtimate ODS 2.1 30 mm 3 um MS ESI m z 353.1 M 55 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 9.20 s 1H 8.18 d J 22.4 Hz 1H 4.99 s 1H 4.76 s 1H 4.63 4.64 m 1H 4.42 4.63 m 1H 4.07 4.12 m 1H 1.53 s 9H 0.65 s 9H 0.07 s 3H 0.18 s 3H . Basic preparative HPLC method. Mobile phase A water with 0.05 NHHO. Mobile phase B CHCN. Flow rate 80 ml min. Detection UV 220 nm 254 nm Column Phenomenex Gemini C18 250 50 mm Sum. Column temperature 30 C. Time in min A B 0.00 55 35 30.00 40 60 30.20 0 100 35.00 0 100.

To a solution of R tert butyl 7 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy methyl 3 chloro 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 6 7H carboxylate 1.0 g 2.5 mmol in THF 10 mL was added dropwise tetrabutylammonium fluoride 5 mL 1.0 M in THF . The mixture was stirred at rt for 4 h. LCMS showed the starting material was consumed. The mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 10 mL then the combined organic layer was washed with brine 20 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 gradient to 1 1 to give R tert butyl 3 chloro 7 hydroxymethyl 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 6 7H carboxylate 0.55 g 77 as a white solid. LCMS t 0.712 min in 5 95AB 1.5 min chromatography RP 18e 25 2 mm MS ESI m z 229 M 55 .

To a solution of R tert butyl 3 chloro 7 hydroxymethyl 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 6 7H carboxylate 0.55 g 1.93 mmol in CHCN 10 mL was added dropwise silver I oxide 2.24 g 9.68 mmol and iodomethane 0.60 mL 9.68 mmol . The mixture was stirred at rt for 18 h. LCMS showed the starting material was consumed. The mixture was filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 gradient to 1 1 to give R tert butyl 3 chloro 7 methoxymethyl 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 6 7H carboxylate 0.40 g 69 as a yellow solid. LCMS t 0.725 min in 5 95AB 1.5 min chromatography RP 18e 25 2 mm MS ESI m z 298.9 M H .

Procedure same as that for S 6 tert butoxycarbonyl 7 ethyl 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboxylic acid with R tert butyl 3 chloro 7 methoxymethyl 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 6 7H carboxylate 400 mg 1.34 mmol as the starting material. LCMS t 0.937 min in 10 80AB 2.0 min chromatography Xtimate ODS 2.1 30 mm 3 um MS ESI m z 309.2 M H . HCl preparative HPLC method. Mobile phase A water with 0.05 HCl. Mobile phase B CHCN. Flow rate 30 mL min Detection UV 220 nm 254 nm. Column Synergi Max RP 150 30 mm 4 u. Column temperature 30 C. Time in min A B 0.00 70 30 11.00 5 95 11.20 0 100 13.00 0 100.

To a solution of 2 2 2 trifluoroacetaldehyde 30.0 g 0.25 mole in CHCl 300 mL was added R 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide 31.20 g 0.25 mole and MgSO 30 g then the mixture was stirred at 40 C. for 4 h. The mixture was filtered then 4A MS 120 g was added to the filtrate. The mixture was stirred at 40 C. for 18 h. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated to give R E 2 methyl N 2 2 2 trifluoroethylidene propane 2 sulfinamide 40 g 76 crude as a white solid. LC MS t 0.851 min in 10 80AB 7.0 min chromatography Xtimate ODS 2.1 30 mm 3 um MS ESI m z 202.0 M H .

To 30 mL of toluene was added n BuLi 6.0 mL 1.50 mmol at 70 C. followed a solution of 2 5 dibromo 3 methoxymethyl pyridine 2.80 g 1.0 mmol in toluene 10 mL . After being stirred for 30 min a solution of R E 2 methyl N 2 2 2 trifluoroethylidene propane 2 sulfinamide 3.35 g 1.0 mmol 60 purity in toluene 10 mL was added to the mixture. The resulting mixture was stirred at 70 C. for 2 h. Saturated aqueous NHCl solution 20 mL was added to the mixture followed by extraction with ethyl acetate 3 20 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 20 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 5 1 gradient to 3 1 to give R N R 1 5 bromo 3 methoxymethyl pyridin 2 yl 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide 1.60 g 39 as an oil. LC MS t 1.105 min in 10 80AB 2.0 min chromatography Xtimate 2.1 30 mm 3 um MS ESI m z 402.9 M H .

To a solution of R N R 1 5 bromo 3 methoxymethyl pyridin 2 yl 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide 0.75 g 1.86 mmol in CHCl 10 mL was added boron tribromide 2.33 g 9.32 mmol at 78 C. The mixture was stirred at rt for 18 h. Methanol 10 mL was added to the mixture slowly. The mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to give R 2 1 amino 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl 5 bromopyridin 3 yl methanol 0.529 g 100 crude as a yellow oil which was used in the next step directly. LC MS t 1.306 min in 10 80 CD POS Xtimate ODS 2.1 30 mm 3 um MS ESI m z 284.9 M H .

A mixture of R 2 1 amino 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl 5 bromopyridin 3 yl methanol 529 mg 1.86 mmol di tert butyl dicarbonate 0.814 g 3.73 mmol and triethylamine 0.939 g 9.30 mmol in MeOH 10 mL was stirred at rt for 18 h. The mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 gradient to 5 1 to give R tert butyl 1 5 bromo 3 hydroxymethyl pyridin 2 yl 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl carbamate 510 mg 71 as a white solid. LC MS t 1.036 min in 10 80AB 2.0 min chromatography Xtimate ODS 2.1 30 mm 3 um MS ESI m z 385.0 M H .

To a solution of R tert butyl 1 5 bromo 3 hydroxymethyl pyridin 2 yl 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl carbamate 510 mg 1.32 mmol and triethylamine 0.91 mL 6.60 mmol in CHCl 10 mL was added methanesulfonyl chloride 302 mg 2.64 mmol at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at rt for 18 h. LCMS showed the starting material was consumed. The reaction mixture was quenched with HO 10 mL then extracted with CHCl 3 10 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 20 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 gradient to 5 1 to give R 5 bromo 2 1 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl pyridin 3 yl methyl methanesulfonate 150 mg 25 as a white solid and R tert butyl 1 5 bromo 3 chloromethyl pyridin 2 yl 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl carbamate 350 mg 66 as a white solid. LC MS t 1.265 min in 10 80AB 2.0 min chromatography Xtimate 2.1 30 mm 3 um MS ESI m z 347.0 M H .

To a solution of R tert butyl 1 5 bromo 3 chloromethyl pyridin 2 yl 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl carbamate 350 mg 0.87 mmol in DMF 10 mL was added sodium hydride 104 mg 2.61 mmol 60 dispersion in mineral oil at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 h. The mixture was quenched with water 10 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 10 mL . The combined organic layer was washed with brine 20 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 gradient to 8 1 to give R tert butyl 3 bromo 7 trifluoromethyl 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 6 7H carboxylate 170 mg 53 as a white solid. LC MS t 1.097 min in 10 80AB 2.0 min chromatography Xtimate 2.1 30 mm 3 um MS ESI m z 367.0 M H . SFC t 1.491 min major 1.778 min in 12.0 min chromatography Column AD 3 B3 5 40 25 ML ee 67.2 .

Procedure same as that for S 6 tert butoxycarbonyl 7 ethyl 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboxylic acid with R tert butyl 3 bromo 7 trifluoromethyl 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 6 7H carboxylate as the starting material. LC MS t 2.466 min in 10 80AB 7.0 min chromatography Xtimate ODS 2.1 30 mm 3 um MS ESI m z 333.1 M H . HCl preparative HPLC method. Mobile phase A water with 0.05 HCl. Mobile phase B CHCN. Flow rate 30 mL min. Detection UV 220 nm 254 nm Column Synergi Max RP 150 30 mm 4 um. Column temperature 30 C. Time in min A B 0.00 60 40 8.00 30 70 8.20 0 100 10.00 0 100.

A mixture of 4 bromobenzenethiol 50 g 0.26 mol bromoethane 58 g 0.53 mol and triethylamine 78 g 0.78 mol in acetonitrile 1 L was stirred at reflux for 17 h. The mixture was cooled to rt and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether to give 4 bromophenyl ethyl sulfane 55 g 96 as an oil. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.40 7.42 dd J 6.4 2.0 Hz 2H 7.18 7.20 dd J 6.4 2.0 Hz 2H 2.91 2.96 q J 7.2 Hz 2H 1.30 1.33 t J 7.2 Hz 3H .

To a solution of ethane 1 2 diol 110 g 1.77 mol in anhydrous CHCl 1.1 L was added triethylamine 215.2 g 296 mL 2.13 mol at rt. The mixture was cooled to 0 C. then tert butylchlorodimethylsilane 267.1 g 1.77 mol dissolved in CHCl 300 mL was added dropwise over 1 h. The mixture was stirred at rt overnight. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl solution 400 mL and separated. The aqueous phase was extracted with MTBE 2 400 mL . The combined organic layers were concentrated under vacuum and the residue was redissolved in MTBE 400 mL . The MTBE layer was washed with water 2 500 mL and brine 500 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under vacuum to give 2 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy ethanol 280 g 90 as a slight oil which was used for the next step directly without further purification. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 3.64 3.66 m 2H 3.57 3.60 m 2H 0.85 s 9H 0.02 s 6H .

To a solution of CHCl 1.8 L cooled to 30 C. was added oxalyl chloride 79.2 g 52.8 mL 624 mmol dropwise. The mixture was cooled to 78 C. then DMSO 62.5 g 88.5 mL 1.25 mmol was added dropwise. After addition the mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 30 min. A solution of 2 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy ethanol 100 g 567 mmol dissolved in CHCl 200 mL was added slowly at 78 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 1 h. Triethylamine 287 g 395 mL 2.84 mmol was added dropwise at 78 C. The mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 30 min and then rt overnight. The reaction mixture was washed with water 1 L 1 N HCl 2 1 L saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution 1 L and brine 1 L . The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under vacuum to give 2 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy acetaldehyde 98.5 g 99.8 as a brown oil which was used for the next step directly without further purification. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 9.70 s 1H 4.22 s 2H 0.93 s 9H 0.11 s 6H .

A mixture of 2 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy acetaldehyde 93.5 g 0.54 mol R 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide 78.8 g 0.65 mol and copper II sulfate 215 g 1.35 mol in anhydrous CHCl 1.5 L was stirred at rt for 16 h. The mixture was quenched with HO 800 mL and separated. The aqueous phase was extracted with CHCl 2 1 L . The combined organic layers were washed with water 1 L and brine 1 L dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 8 1 to give R E N 2 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy ethylidene 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide 38.5 g 26 as a yellow oil. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.96 7.97 t J 3.2 Hz 1H 4.44 4.45 d J 2.8 Hz 2H 1.11 s 9H 0.00 s 6H .

To a solution of 4 bromophenyl ethyl sulfane 28.9 g 133.1 mmol in anhydrous THF 500 mL was added dropwise n butyllithium 73 mL 181.5 mmol 2.5 M in hexanes at 78 C. The mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 30 min. A solution of R E N 2 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy ethylidene 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide 33.5 g 121 mmol in anhydrous THF 100 mL was added to the mixture at 78 C. The mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 2 h then allowed to warm to rt and stirred for 2 h. The mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous NHCl solution 200 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 300 mL . The combined organic layer was washed with water 200 mL and brine 200 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 15 1 three times to afford R N R 2 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy 1 4 ethylthio phenyl ethyl 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide 22 g 44 as a yellow oil. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.21 7.24 d J 7.2 Hz 2H 7.18 7.21 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 4.42 4.45 dd J 8.8 2.4 Hz 1H 4.21 brs 1H 3.69 3.73 dd J 10.4 4.4 Hz 1H 3.51 3.56 t J 9.6 Hz 1H 2.87 2.92 q J 7.6 Hz 2H 1.25 1.29 t J 7.2 Hz 3H 1.18 s 9H 0.88 s 9H 0.02 s 6H . LCMS t 1.010 min in 5 95AB 1.5 min chromatography MK RP18e 25 2 mm MS ESI m z 437.9 M Na . Isomer SFC t 3.607 and 4.014 min in 12 min chromatography AD H 5 5 40 2.3 5 ML ee 90.85 .

To a solution of R N R 2 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy 1 4 ethylthio phenyl ethyl 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide 22 g 52.9 mmol in CHCl 250 mL was added HCl 26.5 mL 4 N in dioxane at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at rt for 2 h. LCMS showed no starting material remaining. The mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to afford crude R 2 amino 2 4 ethylthio phenyl ethanol HCl salt 12.3 g 100 as a brown solid which was used for the next step directly without further purification. LCMS t 1.226 min in 0 30AB 2 min chromatography Xtimate 3 um C18 2.1 30 mm MS ESI m z 180.9 M OH .

To a mixture of R 2 amino 2 4 ethylthio phenyl ethanol 15.2 g 65.0 mmol in methanol 200 mL was added dropwise a solution of oxone reagent 80.0 g 130.0 mmol in water 200 mL at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at rt for 1.5 h LCMS showed no starting material remaining. The mixture was filtered and methanol was removed under reduced pressure. The aqueous phase was extracted with EtOAc 2 80 mL then the aqueous layer was basified to pH 8 9 with solid sodium carbonate portionwise at 0 C. then this solution was lyophilized contained the NaCO . The solid was dissolved in CHCl MeOH 3 1 600 mL and stirred for 30 min filtered then concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with CHCl MeOH 1 0 to 4 1 to give R 2 amino 2 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl ethanol 11.5 g 77 as a white solid. LC MS t 0.738 min in 0 30CD POS chromatography Xtimate ODS 2.1 30 mm 3 um MS ESI m z 230.1 M H . Isomer SFC t 6.99 min in 30 min chromatography CD PH 10 80 B 08 ML ee 97.42 . H NMR DO 400 MHz 7.82 7.84 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.54 7.56 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 4.33 4.35 t J 6.4 Hz 1H 3.72 3.78 m 2H 3.19 3.25 q J 7.6 Hz 2H 1.03 1.07 t J 7.6 Hz 3H .

To a solution of 4 fluorobenzaldehyde 24.6 g 198 mmol in dimethylsulfoxide 60 mL was added sodium ethanesulfinate 46 g 396 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at 125 C. for 20 h. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was triturated with 350 mL of HO. The product was filtered washed with two 10 mL portions of EtOH and dried under vacuum to afford 4 ethylsulfonyl benzaldehyde as a light yellow solid 31.2 g 80 yield . LC MS t 1.19 min in 2 min chromatography MS ESI m z 199.1 M H . H NMR CDCl 10.14 s 1H 8.09 s 4H 3.16 q J 7.2 Hz 2H 1.30 t J 7.2 Hz 3H .

To a solution of 4 ethylsulfonyl benzaldehyde 10 g 50.5 mmol in DMF 85 mL at rt was added trimethylsulfonium iodide 11.9 g 58.1 mmol followed by potassium hydroxide powder 5.66 g 101 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 20 min before quenching with HO 50 mL . The mixture was carefully neutralized with 1 N HCl solution 55 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 100 mL . The combined organic phase was washed with brine dried over anhydrous NaSO and passed through a pad of silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate . It was concentrated under reduced pressure to afford crude 2 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl oxirane as yellow oil which was used directly for the next step without further purification. LC MS t 1.13 min in 2 min chromatography MS ESI m z 213.2 M H .

To a solution of crude 2 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl oxirane 50.5 mmol in CHCN 200 mL at 0 C. was slowly added concentrated sulfuric acid 5.4 mL 101 mmol . The mixture was allowed to stir at rt for 1.5 h. LCMS showed the starting material was consumed. HO 15 mL was added to the reaction mixture. Stirring continued at rt for 8 h then at 45 C. for 10 h. After cooling to rt the pH of the reaction mixture was adjusted to 3 4 by addition of 1 N NaOH solution 90 mL . The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 100 mL . The organic phase was then extracted with HO 2 30 mL . The combined aqueous layers were then basified with 1 N NaOH solution 110 mL to pH 9 and extracted with 1 butanol 5 60 mL . The combined organic layer consisting of 1 butanol extracts was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. It was dried under high vacuum to afford crude 2 amino 2 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl ethan 1 ol as an off white solid. 4 g 35 yield over 3 steps. Intermediate 4 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl 2 methyl 4 5 dihydrooxazole LC MS t 0.77 0.81 min in 2 min chromatography MS ESI m z 254.26 M H . 2 amino 2 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl ethan 1 ol LC MS t 0.61 min in 2 min chromatography MS ESI m z 230.21 M H . H NMR CDOD 7.88 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.64 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 4.16 4.12 m 1H 3.76 3.72 m 1H 3.66 3.61 m 1H 3.17 q J 7.2 Hz 2H 1.19 t J 7.2 Hz 3H .

To a solution of 2 amino 2 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl ethan 1 ol 238 mg 1.0 mmol in MeOH 3 mL at 50 C. was added a solution of R Mandelic acid 76 mg 0.5 mmol in MeOH 1 mL . The resulting solution was allowed to cool down to ambient temperature slowly. After stirring for 1 day the resulting crystals were collected by vacuum filtration and dried under high vacuum providing the mono mandelate salt as a white crystal 107 mg 28 yield 92.5 ee. H NMR CDOD 7.97 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.71 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.46 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.46 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.31 7.27 m 2H 7.25 7.22 m 1H 4.42 4.42 m 1H 3.92 3.89 m 1H 3.81 3.77 m 1H 3.21 q J 7.2 Hz 2H 1.21 t J 7.2 Hz 3H .

To a solution of 4 bromophenyl ethyl sulfane 5 g 23.15 mmol in acetonitrile 50 mL was added water 50 mL and oxone 28.94 g 46.30 mmol . The mixture was stirred at rt for 1 h. TLC petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 showed that the starting material was completely consumed. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous sodium sulfite 150 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water 100 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 to 2 1 to afford 1 bromo 4 ethylsulfonyl benzene 5.2 g 90 as a white solid. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.73 dd J 8.4 18.0 Hz 4H 3.10 q J 7.2 Hz 2H 1.26 t J 7.2 Hz 3H .

To a solution of 1 bromo 4 ethylsulfonyl benzene 572 mg 2.3 mmol in dioxane 20 mL was added potassium E propenyl 1 trifluoroborate 375 mg 2.53 mmol cesium carbonate 1.5 g 4.6 mmol water 4 mL and palladium II acetate 57 mg 0.25 mmol . The mixture was stirred at 100 C. for 16 h. The mixture was filtered then the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 to 5 1 to afford E 1 ethylsulfonyl 4 prop 1 en 1 yl benzene 410 mg 85 as a white solid. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.80 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.47 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 6.50 6.35 m 2H 3.10 q J 7.6 Hz 2H 1.93 d J 4.8 Hz 3H 1.26 t J 7.6 Hz 3H .

To a solution of tert butyl carbamate 708 mg 6.05 mmol in 1 propanol 15 mL was added aqueous NaOH solution 14 mL 0.38 M . The mixture was stirred at rt for 5 min then 1 3 dichloro 5 5 dimethylimidazolidine 2 4 dione 797 mg 2.93 mmol was added. The mixture was stirred at rt for 10 min Solutions of DHQ PHAL 92 mg 0.12 mmol in 1 propanol 1 mL E 1 ethylsulfonyl 4 prop 1 en 1 yl benzene 410 mg 1.95 mmol in 1 propanol 2 mL and KOsO.HO 29 mg 0.08 mmol in aq. NaOH solution 0.2 mL 0.38 M were added successively to the reaction mixture at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at rt for 16 h. The mixture was diluted with water 100 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 50 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by chromatography column on silica gel eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 to 1 1 and preparative TLC petroleum ether ethyl acetate 1 1 to afford a mixture of tert butyl 1R 2R 1 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl 2 hydroxypropyl carbamate and tert butyl 1S 2S 1 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl 2 hydroxypropyl carbamate 175 mg 26 as a white solid. LCMS t 0.774 min in 5 95AB 1.5 min chromatography Welch MK RP 18e 25 2 mm MS ESI m z 366.1 M Na . H NMR CDCl400 MHz 7.86 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.50 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 5.60 5.50 m 1H 4.75 4.60 m 1H 4.13 4.02 m 1H 3.10 q J 7.6 Hz 2H 1.43 s 9H 1.35 1.25 m 6H .

Procedure same as that for S N S 1 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl 2 hydroxyethyl 7 isopropyl 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboxamide with a mixture of tert butyl 1R 2R 1 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl 2 hydroxypropyl carbamate and tert butyl 1S 2S 1 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl 2 hydroxypropyl carbamate as the starting materials.

To a solution of E 1 ethylsulfonyl 4 prop 1 en 1 yl benzene 200 mg 0.95 mmol in CHCl 10 mL was added m chloroperbenzoic acid 500 mg 2.86 mmol . The mixture was stirred at 18 C. for 20 h. TLC petroleum ether ethyl acetate 3 1 showed that the starting material was consumed completely. The reaction solution was quenched with saturated aqueous sodium sulfite solution 40 mL and extracted with CHCl 3 15 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 15 1 to 3 1 to afford a mixture of 2S 3S 2 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl 3 methyloxirane and 2R 3R 2 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl 3 methyloxirane 180 mg 80 as a colorless oil. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.85 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.44 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 3.64 d J 1.6 Hz 1H 3.09 q J 7.6 Hz 2H 3.00 dd J 2.0 5.2 Hz 1H 1.47 d J 5.2 Hz 3H 1.25 t J 7.6 Hz 3H .

To a mixture of 2S 3S 2 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl 3 methyloxirane and 2R 3R 2 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl 3 methyloxirane 120 mg 0.53 mmol in i PrOH 4 mL was added ammonium hydroxide 4 mL . The mixture was stirred at 110 C. in a sealed tube for 17 h. LCMS showed that the reaction was complete. The mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and then lyophilized to remove excess ammonium hydroxide to afford a crude mixture of 1R 2S 1 amino 1 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl propan 2 ol and 1S 2R 1 amino 1 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl propan 2 ol 120 mg 100 as a yellow oil which was used for the next step directly without further purification.

LCMS t 0.338 min in 0 30AB 2 min chromatography Welch Xtimate 3 um C18 2.1 30 mm MS ESI m z 243.9 M H .

To a mixture of aluminum chloride 47.6 g 357 mmol in dichloromethane 200 mL at 0 C. was added ethyl 2 chloro 2 oxoacetate 31.9 mL 286 mmol slowly. After stirring for 20 min a solution of ethyl phenyl sulfide 32.80 g 238 mmol in dichloromethane 200 mL was added dropwise at 0 C. After the addition the mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 min before warming to rt and stirring for 2.5 h. LCMS showed that the reaction was complete. The reaction mixture was quenched by ice diluted with ethyl acetate 800 mL then washed successively with water 250 mL and brine 100 mL . It was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated by rotary evaporation to afford 52.41 g 93 yield of crude ethyl 2 4 ethylthio phenyl 2 oxoacetate as a yellowish oil which was used without further purification. LCMS t 1.77 min in 2 min chromatography MS ESI m z 239 M H .

To a mixture of ethyl 2 4 ethylthio phenyl 2 oxoacetate 20 g 84.3 mmol in dry THF 100 mL was added R 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide 11.18 g 92.7 mmol and titanium IV ethoxide 28.74 g 126 mmol . The mixture was heated at reflux overnight. The solution color gradually turned into a light brown. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was quenched with brine 25 mL and stirred for 30 min. It was then filtered through a pad of Celite rinsing the solid with ethyl acetate 100 mL . The filtrate was washed with water 50 mL and brine 25 mL then the organic phase was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated by rotary evaporation to afford 23.09 g 80.6 yield of crude ethyl R E 2 tert butylsulfinyl imino 2 4 ethylthio phenyl acetate as a light brown oil which was used without further purification. LCMS t 1.81 min in 2 min chromatography MS ESI m z 342 M H .

To a mixture of ethyl R E 2 tert butylsulfinyl imino 2 4 ethylthio phenyl acetate 100 mg 0.293 mmol in dry THF 4 mL at 0 C. was added dimethyl zinc 2.0 M in toluene 161 L 0.322 mmol . After stirring for 10 min methylmagnesium bromide 1.4 M in toluene THF 2.46 mL 3.44 mmol was added dropwise. The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 20 min before warming to rt and stirring for 16 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 15 mL then diluted with ethyl acetate 50 mL . The organic layer was washed with 0.5 aqueous HCl 20 mL and brine 10 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated by rotary evaporation. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography 100 hexanes gradient to 1 1 hexanes ethyl acetate to afford 60 mg 57 yield of ethyl R 2 R tert butylsulfinyl amino 2 4 ethylthio phenyl propanoate. LCMS t 1.61 min in 2 min chromatography MS ESI m z 358 M H .

To a solution of ethyl R 2 R tert butylsulfinyl amino 2 4 ethylthio phenyl propanoate 60 mg 0.168 mmol in dry THF 3 mL at 0 C. was added dropwise lithium borohydride 2.0 M in THF 126 L 0.252 mmol . The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 10 min before warming to rt and stirring for 3 h. The reaction mixture was quenched by saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 15 mL and diluted with ethyl acetate 25 mL . The organic layer was washed with 0.5 HCl 15 mL and brine 10 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated by rotary evaporation to afford 56 mg 100 yield of R N R 2 4 ethylthio phenyl 1 hydroxypropan 2 yl 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide which was used without further purification. LCMS t 1.35 min in 2 min chromatography MS ESI m z 316 M H .

To a solution of R N R 2 4 ethylthio phenyl 1 hydroxypropan 2 yl 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide 53 mg 0.168 mmol in methanol 3 mL was added HCl solution 4.0 M in dioxane 3 mL . The mixture was stirred at rt for 3 h. The mixture was concentrated to afford crude 2 amino 2 4 ethylthio phenyl propan 1 ol which was used without further purification. LCMS t 0.66 min in 2 min chromatography MS ESI m z 195 M NH H .

To a mixture of 2 bromo 5 fluoropyridine 6.28 g 35.66 mmol in anhydrous DMF 60 mL was added sodium ethanethiolate 3 g 35.66 mmol . The mixture was stirred at 100 C. for 3 h. TLC petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 showed that the starting material was not consumed completely. Additional sodium ethanethiolate 0.9 g 9.56 mmol was added to the mixture. The mixture was stirred at 100 C. for 12 h. The mixture was quenched with HO 150 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 150 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 400 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 80 1 to afford 2 bromo 5 ethylthio pyridine 7.0 g 90 as a colorless oil.

To a solution of toluene 60 mL was added n BuLi 10.6 mL 26.48 mmol 2.5 M in hexanes dropwise at 78 C. the internal temperature did not exceed 50 C. A solution of 2 bromo 5 ethylthio pyridine 3.85 g 17.65 mmol in toluene 10 mL was then added to the reaction mixture at 78 C. the internal temperature did not exceed 65 C. The mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 1 h. A solution of R E N 2 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy ethylidene 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide 4.90 g 17.65 mmol in toluene 10 mL was added to the reaction mixture at 78 C. the internal temperature did not exceed 60 C. The mixture was stirred at 78 C. for another 2 h. The mixture was quenched with brine 150 mL at 78 C. and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 150 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 400 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 to 3 1 to afford R N R 2 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy 1 5 ethylthio pyridin 2 yl ethyl 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide 3.0 g 41 as a pale yellow oil. LC MS t 1.014 min in 5 95AB 1.5 min chromatography Welch Merck RP 18e 25 2 mm MS ESI m z 417.2 M H .

Procedure same as that for R 2 amino 2 4 ethylthio phenyl ethanol with R N R 2 tert butyldimethylsilyl oxy 1 5 ethylthio pyridin 2 yl ethyl 2 methylpropane 2 sulfinamide as the starting material.

Procedure same as that for R 2 amino 2 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl ethanol with R 2 amino 2 5 ethylthio pyridin 2 yl ethanol as the starting material. H NMR CDOD 400 MHz 9.08 s 1H 8.35 dd J 2.0 8.4 Hz 1H 7.79 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 4.70 t J 5.6 Hz 1H 4.03 dd J 4.8 12.0 Hz 1H 3.91 dd J 4.8 11.6 Hz 1H 3.29 q J 7.2 Hz 2H 1.25 t J 7.2 Hz 3H .

To a mixture of lithium aluminum hydride 11.6 g 0.306 mol in anhydrous THF 350 mL was added a solution of trans 4 trifluoromethyl cyclohexanecarboxylic acid 30 g 0.153 mol in anhydrous THF 50 mL at 0 C. dropwise. The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 2 h. TLC petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 showed no starting material remaining. The mixture was quenched with water 12 mL 15 aqueous NaOH solution 24 mL and HO 12 mL successively. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated under vacuum to give trans 4 trifluoromethyl cyclohexyl methanol 24 g 86 as a liquid. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 3.49 3.50 d J 6.0 Hz 2H 1.91 2.07 m 4H 1.50 1.57 m 1H 1.32 1.36 m 2H 0.98 1.05 m 2H .

To a mixture of oxalyl chloride 24.96 g 13.84 mL 197.7 mmol in CHCl 250 mL was added dropwise DMSO 20.72 g 28 mL 395.4 mmol at 65 C. The mixture was stirred at 65 C. for 30 min trans 4 trifluoromethyl cyclohexyl methanol 12 g 65.9 mmol dissolved in CHCl 50 mL was added dropwise at 65 C. and the mixture was stirred at 65 C. for another 30 min Triethylamine 66.4 g 91.2 mL 659 mmol was added dropwise below 65 C. The mixture was stirred at 65 C. for 30 min then stirred at rt for 1.5 h. The mixture was quenched with water 200 mL and separated. The aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl 2 300 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water 200 mL and brine 200 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 to give trans 4 trifluoromethyl cyclohexanecarbaldehyde 8.9 g 75 as a slight yellow oil. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 9.70 s 1H 2.16 2.65 m 3H 2.04 2.12 m 3H 1.00 1.39 m 4H .

To a solution of 1 1 1 trifluoropent 4 en 2 ol 6.7 g 48 mmol in anhydrous dried with CaH DMF 85 mL was added sodium hydride 2.3 g 57 mmol 60 in mineral oil in portions at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 min then ethyl 2 bromomethyl acrylate 9.2 g 48 mmol was added dropwise to the resulting mixture via syringe at 0 C. After addition the mixture was stirred at rt for 2 h. TLC analysis eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 showed that the starting material was consumed. The reaction was quenched with water 50 mL at 0 C. and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed successively with water 3 50 mL and brine 50 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate gradient from 100 1 to 50 1 to afford ethyl 2 1 1 1 trifluoropent 4 en 2 yl oxy methyl acrylate 6.6 g 55 as a pale yellow oil. H NMR CDCl400 MHz 6.31 s 1H 5.89 s 1H 5.85 5.74 m 1H 5.23 5.07 m 2H 4.52 4.43 m 1H 4.38 4.15 m 3H 3.82 3.68 m 1H 2.50 2.35 m 2H 1.38 1.20 m 3H .

To a solution of ethyl 2 1 1 1 trifluoropent 4 en 2 yl oxy methyl acrylate 6.6 g 26.2 mmol in anhydrous CHCl 2.6 L was added Grubbs II catalyst 2.2 g 2.62 mmol under N. The mixture was stirred at rt for 3 h. TLC analysis eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 showed that the reaction was complete. Water 2 L was added to the mixture to quench the reaction. After partition the organic layer was washed successively with water 3 2 L then brine 2 L dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate gradient from 100 1 to 80 1 to afford ethyl 6 trifluoromethyl 5 6 dihydro 2H pyran 3 carboxylate 4.83 g 82 as a pale yellow oil. H NMR CDCl400 MHz 7.01 d J 2.8 Hz 1H 4.63 4.58 m 1H 4.40 4.33 m 1H 4.20 q J 7.2 Hz 2H 3.95 3.84 m 1H 2.57 2.46 m 1H 2.41 2.32 m 1H 1.28 t J 7.2 Hz 3H .

To a solution of ethyl 6 trifluoromethyl 5 6 dihydro 2H pyran 3 carboxylate 4.83 g 22 mmol in anhydrous THF 130 mL was added dry Pd OH on carbon 2.7 g 10 w w . The mixture was stirred at rt for 16 h under H 30 psi . TLC analysis eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 showed that most of the starting material was not consumed. The mixture was filtered then the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure and dissolved into anhydrous THF 60 mL . Dry Pd OH on carbon 2.7 g 10 w w was added to the mixture. The mixture was stirred at rt for 28 h under H 30 psi . TLC analysis eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 showed that the starting material was consumed. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to afford crude ethyl 6 trifluoromethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 carboxylate 3.4 g 70 as a colorless oil which was used for the next step directly without further purification. H NMR CDCl400 MHz 4.50 d J 11.6 Hz 1H 4.18 q J 7.2 Hz 2H 3.80 3.68 m 1H 3.66 d J 3.2 11.6 Hz 1H 2.55 2.49 m 1H 2.43 2.35 m 1H 1.95 1.81 m 1H 1.75 1.65 m 2H 1.25 t J 7.2 Hz 3H .

To a solution of crude ethyl 6 trifluoromethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 carboxylate 2.0 g 8.8 mmol in THF 24 mL EtOH 12 mL was added 1 N aqueous NaOH solution 12 mL . The mixture was stirred at rt for 3 h. TLC analysis eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 showed that the reaction was complete. The mixture was added to water 20 mL and concentrated under reduced pressure to remove the organic solvent. The residue was washed with MTBE 20 mL and adjusted to pH 4 5 with 1 N HCl solution. Then the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 3 20 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 20 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford crude 6 trifluoromethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 carboxylic acid 1.72 g 98 as a pale yellow oil which was used for the next step directly without further purification.

The ratio of cis trans isomers was 2 1 based on H NMR and F NMR analysis. H NMR CDCl400 MHz 8.56 br s 1H 4.47 d J 12.0 Hz 0.68H 4.25 d J 12.0 Hz 0.32H 3.76 3.62 m 1.68H 3.47 t J 11.2 Hz 0.32H 2.71 2.61 m 0.32H 2.58 2.51 m 0.68H 2.38 2.22 m 1H 1.88 1.80 m 1H 1.75 1.60 m 2H .

To a solution of crude 6 trifluoromethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 carboxylic acid 1.72 g 8.69 mmol was added a 2 N aqueous NaOH solution 76 mL . The mixture was stirred in sealed tube at 100 C. for 84 h. The mixture was diluted with water 20 mL and washed with MTBE 50 mL . The aqueous layer was adjusted to pH 4 5 with 1 N HCl solution and extracted with EtOAc 3 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 50 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford crude 6 trifluoromethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 carboxylic acid 1.60 g 93 as a pale yellow oil which was used for the next step directly without further purification.

The ratio of cis trans was 1 3 based on H NMR and F NMR analysis. H NMR CDCl400 MHz 4.54 d J 12.0 Hz 0.25H 4.32 dd J 2.8 11.6 Hz 0.75H 3.83 3.68 m 1.25H 3.52 t J 11.2 Hz 0.75H 2.75 2.58 m 1H 2.45 2.30 m 1H 1.95 1.85 m 1H 1.83 1.63 m 2H .

To a solution of crude 6 trifluoromethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 carboxylic acid 1.0 g 5.01 mmol 1 3 cis trans ratio of isomers in anhydrous CHCl 60 mL was added N O dimethylhydroxylamine hydrochloride 980 mg 10.10 mmol EDCI 1.93 g 10.10 mmol HOBt 1.36 g 10.10 mmol and diisopropylethylamine 1.95 g 15.15 mmol . The mixture was stirred at rt for 16 h. The mixture was diluted with water 60 mL and extracted with CHCl 3 60 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 60 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate gradient from 30 1 to 15 1 to afford N methoxy N methyl 6 trifluoromethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 carboxamide 1.05 g 87 as a pale yellow oil.

The ratio of cis trans was 1 3 based on H NMR and F NMR analysis. H NMR CDCl400 MHz 4.30 4.24 m 0.25H 4.22 4.15 m 0.75H 3.90 3.68 m 4H 3.62 3.52 m 1H 3.24 3.14 m 2H 3.10 2.98 m 1H 2.14 2.04 m 1H 1.95 1.80 m 2H 1.80 1.65 m 2H .

To a solution of N methoxy N methyl 6 trifluoromethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 carboxamide 90 mg 0.373 mmol 1 3 cis trans ratio of isomers in anhydrous THF 5 mL was added lithium aluminum hydride 0.75 mL 0.746 mmol 1 M in THF dropwise at 0 C. under N. The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 h. TLC analysis eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 5 1 showed that the reaction was complete. The mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous sodium sulfate solution 1 mL and filtered. The filtrate was diluted with CHCl 60 mL and washed with water 60 mL 10 aqueous HCl solution 0.5 M 60 mL saturated aqueous NaHCOsolution 60 mL and water 60 mL . The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford crude 6 trifluoromethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 carbaldehyde 60 mg 88 as a pale yellow oil which was used for the next step directly without further purification. The ratio of cis trans was 1 3 based on H NMR and F NMR analysis.

To a mixture of sodium hydride 15.8 g 394.5 mmol 60 in mineral oil in anhydrous DMF 460 mL was added dropwise 3 4 dihydro 2H pyran 2 yl methanol 30.0 g 263 mmol dissolved in anhydrous DMF 20 mL at 0 C. slowly. The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 min Bromomethyl benzene 49.4 g 34.3 mL 289 mmol dissolved in anhydrous DMF 20 mL was added dropwise and the mixture was stirred at rt for 18 h. TLC petroleum ether showed most of the bromomethyl benzene was consumed and a new spot was found. The mixture was quenched with HO 200 mL at 0 C. slowly then extracted with ethyl acetate 3 300 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with HO 3 300 mL and brine 200 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography on eluting with petroleum ether to give 2 benzyloxy methyl 3 4 dihydro 2H pyran 39.4 g 73 as a colorless oil. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.27 7.35 m 5H 6.39 d J 6.0 Hz 1H 4.68 4.69 m 1H 4.53 4.63 m 2H 4.00 4.03 m 1H 3.51 3.61 m 2H 2.06 2.09 m 1H 1.98 2.04 m 1H 1.82 1.83 m 1H 1.67 1.70 m 1H .

To a mixture of 2 benzyloxy methyl 3 4 dihydro 2H pyran 31 g 152 mmol in anhydrous THF 400 mL was added dropwise 9 BBN 730 mL 365 mmol 0.5 M in THF at 0 C. for 1 h. The mixture was stirred at rt for 18 h. TLC petroleum ether ethyl acetate 5 1 showed the starting material was consumed. 10 aqueous NaOH solution 200 mL was added to the mixture at 0 C. followed by 30 HO 100 mL . The mixture was stirred at 21 25 C. for 1 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous NaSOsolution 200 mL at 0 C. and concentrated under reduced pressure to remove THF. The residue was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 200 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with HO 200 mL and brine 200 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 2 1 to 1 1 to give 6 benzyloxy methyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 ol 30.7 g 91 as a colorless oil. LC MS t 0.869 min in 10 80AB 2 min chromatography Xtimate ODS 2.1 30 mm 3 um MS ESI m z 240.1 M 18 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.20 7.27 m 5H 4.45 4.55 m 2H 3.97 4.00 m 1H 3.60 3.65 m 1H 3.34 3.43 m 3H 3.05 3.11 m 1H 2.13 2.14 m 1H 1.69 1.71 m 1H 1.41 1.43 m 2H .

To a mixture of 6 benzyloxy methyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 ol 45.5 g 205 mmol in anhydrous CHCl 500 mL was added pyridinium chlorochromate 88.4 g 410 mmol portionwise at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at rt for 72 h. TLC petroleum ether ethyl acetate 3 1 showed the starting material was consumed. The mixture was filtered through Kieselguhr and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 3 1 to 2 1 to give 6 benzyloxy methyl dihydro 2H pyran 3 4H one 31 g 69 as an oil. LC MS t 0.735 min in 10 80AB 2 min chromatography Xtimate 2.1 30 mm 3 um MS ESI m z 256.1 M 36 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.19 7.29 m 5H 4.49 4.57 m 2H 4.11 4.15 m 1H 3.92 2.95 m 1H 3.85 3.91 m 1H 3.47 3.54 m 2H 2.53 2.54 m 1H 2.40 2.44 m 1H 1.97 1.99 m 1H 1.83 1.90 m 1H .

To a mixture of 6 benzyloxy methyl dihydro 2H pyran 3 4H one 31.0 g 141 mmol and trimethyl trifluoromethyl silane 50.1 g 353 mmol in anhydrous THF 300 mL was added dropwise tetrabutylammonium fluoride 3.1 mL 1 M in THF at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at rt for 2 h. TLC petroleum ether ethyl acetate 5 1 showed the starting material was consumed. HCl solution 340 mL v v 1 1 was added to the mixture at 0 C. then stirring continued at rt for 18 h. TLC petroleum ether ethyl acetate 5 1 showed the reaction was complete. The mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to remove THF. The residue was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 200 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with HO 100 mL and brine 100 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 5 1 to give 6 benzyloxy methyl 3 trifluoromethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 ol 10.0 g 25 as a colorless oil. LC MS t 1.041 min in 10 80AB 2 min chromatography Xtimate ODS 2.1 30 mm 3 um MS ESI m z 308.1 M 18 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.22 7.30 m 5H 4.45 4.55 m 2H 4.09 4.13 m 1H 3.60 3.62 m 1H 3.47 3.49 m 1H 3.32 3.41 m 2H 2.19 2.22 m 1H 2.10 brs 1H 1.62 1.69 m 4H . SFC t 4.512 and 4.857 min in 15 min chromatography Column AD H 3 5 40 2.35 ML ee 10.12 .

To a mixture of 6 benzyloxy methyl 3 trifluoromethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 ol 10.0 g 34.4 mmol and pyridine 8.16 g 8.3 mL 103.2 mmol in anhydrous CHCl 150 mL was added dropwise ethyl chlorooxoacetate 9.41 g 68.8 mmol at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at rt for 20 h. TLC petroleum ether ethyl acetate 5 1 showed most of the starting material was consumed. The mixture was washed with 1 N HCl 50 mL and brine 50 mL . The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 8 1 to give 6 benzyloxy methyl 3 trifluoromethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 yl ethyl oxalate 11 g 82 as a colorless oil. LC MS t 1.225 min in 10 80AB 2 min chromatography Xtimate ODS 2.1 30 mm 3 um MS ESI m z 408.2 M 18 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.29 7.36 m 5H 4.51 4.61 m 2H 4.47 4.48 m 1H 4.35 q J 7.2 Hz 2H 4.00 4.01 m 1H 3.60 3.62 m 1H 3.53 3.54 m 1H 3.45 3.48 m 1H 2.63 2.68 m 1H 2.34 2.35 m 1H 1.74 1.78 m 2H 139 t J 7.2 Hz 3H .

To a mixture of 6 benzyloxy methyl 3 trifluoromethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 3 yl ethyl oxalate 10.0 g 25.6 mmol in anhydrous toluene 600 mL was added dropwise AIBN 1.26 g 7.68 mmol and tributyltin hydride 15.05 g 51.2 mmol dissolved in anhydrous toluene 200 mL at 130 C. over 40 min. The mixture was stirred at 130 C. for 7 h. LCMS showed the reaction was complete. The mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 200 mL and aqueous KF solution 100 mL and filtered. The filtrate was separated. The aqueous phase was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 200 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 100 mL dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 to 8 1 to give trans 2 benzyloxy methyl 5 trifluoromethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran less polar peak 3.3 g 47 and cis 2 benzyloxy methyl 5 trifluoromethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran more polar peak 1.55 g 22 as oil. trans 2 benzyloxy methyl 5 trifluoromethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran LC MS t 3.978 min in 10 80AB 7 min chromatography Xtimate ODS 2.1 30 mm 3 um MS ESI m z 292.0 M 18 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.29 7.35 m 5H 4.57 q J 12.0 Hz 2H 4.17 4.20 m 1H 3.41 3.54 m 4H 2.37 2.38 m 1H 2.06 2.10 m 1H 1.70 1.74 m 1H 1.30 1.42 m 2H . SFC t 3.237 and 3.528 min in 12 min chromatography Column OJ H 3 5 40 2.5 ML ee 5.62 . SFC t 3.158 and 3.375 min in 12 min chromatography Column OJ H 5 5 40 2.5 ML ee 0.85 . cis 2 benzyloxy methyl 5 trifluoromethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran LC MS t 3.739 min in 10 80AB 7 min chromatography Xtimate ODS 2.1 30 mm 3 um MS ESI m z 292.0 M 18 . H NMR CDCl400 MHz 7.21 7.30 m 5H 4.50 q J 12.0 Hz 2H 4.14 4.18 m 1H 3.57 3.58 m 2H 3.45 3.49 m 1H 3.33 3.36 m 1H 2.03 2.11 m 2H 1.19 1.77 m 3H . SFC t 3.304 and 4.188 min in 12 min chromatography Column OJ H 3 5 40 2.5 ML ee 9.85 . SFC t 3.312 and 4.273 min in 12 min chromatography Column OD H 5 5 40 2.5 ML ee 18.6 .

A mixture of trans 2 benzyloxy methyl 5 trifluoromethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 1.0 g 3.6 mmol dry Pd C 250 mg 10 Pd and HCl 3 mL 4 N in MeOH in MeOH 20 mL was stirred at rt for 18 h under H 15 psi . TLC petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 showed the starting material was consumed. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 5 2 to 1 1 to give trans 5 trifluoromethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl methanol 550 mg 82 as a slight yellow oil. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 4.10 4.12 m 1H 3.35 3.59 m 4H 2.29 2.30 m 1H 2.01 2.05 m 2H 1.58 1.61 m 2H 1.33 1.36 m 1H .

To a mixture of oxalyl chloride 1.14 g 0.77 mL 8.97 mmol in anhydrous CHCl 15 mL was added dropwise DMSO 1.4 g 1.27 mL 17.94 mmol at 78 C. The mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 30 min Trans 5 trifluoromethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl methanol 550 mg 2.99 mmol dissolved in CHCl 5 mL was added dropwise at 78 C. and the mixture was stirred at 78 C. for another 2 h. Triethylamine 3.03 g 4.2 mL 29.9 mmol was added dropwise at 78 C. and the mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 30 min then rt for 1 h. The mixture was added with HO 20 mL extracted with CHCl 3 20 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 3 1 to give trans 5 trifluoromethyl tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 carbaldehyde 450 mg 70 purity 83 as a yellow oil. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 9.55 s 1H 4.06 4.19 m 2H 3.35 3.46 m 1H 2.33 2.35 m 4H 2.10 2.14 m 1H .

A mixture of S 6 tert butoxycarbonyl 7 isopropyl 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboxylic acid 11 g 36 mmol R 2 amino 2 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl ethanol 11.5 g 43.2 mmol HATU 16.4 g 43.2 mmol and triethylamine 21.9 g 30 mL 216 mmol in DMF 350 mL was stirred at rt for 2 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with HO 140 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 140 mL . The combined organic layer was washed with water 3 150 mL and brine 150 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 1 3 to afford S tert butyl 3 R 1 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl 2 hydroxyethyl carbamoyl 7 isopropyl 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 6 7H carboxylate 6.1 g 33 as a light green solid. LC MS t 0.845 min in 5 95AB 1.5 min chromatography MK RP18e 25 2 mm MS ESI m z 518.3 M H . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.87 s 1H 7.95 s 1H 7.81 7.83 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.53 7.55 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.16 s 1H 5.26 5.28 m 1H 4.88 4.96 m 1H 4.71 4.80 m 1H 4.45 4.47 m 1H 4.03 4.06 m 1H 3.94 3.98 m 1H 3.01 3.06 q J 7.6 Hz 2H 2.49 brs 1H 2.35 brs 1H 1.46 s 9H 1.19 1.24 t J 7.6 Hz 3H 0.92 1.02 m 3H 0.67 0.72 m 3H . Isomer SFC t 8.073 and 9.821 min in 15 min chromatography AD H 5 5 40 2.35 ML ee 96.91 .

To a solution of S tert butyl 3 R 1 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl 2 hydroxyethyl carbamoyl 7 isopropyl 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 6 7H carboxylate 6.6 g 12.8 mmol in CHCl 200 mL was added HCl 60 mL 4 N in dioxane at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at rt for 4 h. LCMS showed no starting material remaining. The mixture was concentrated under vacuum. The residue was adjusted to pH 9 10 with 10 NaOH solution then extracted with ethyl acetate 4 200 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford S N R 1 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl 2 hydroxyethyl 7 isopropyl 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboxamide 5.3 g 99.6 as a light yellow solid which was used for the next step directly without further purification. LC MS t 0.341 min in 5 95AB 1.5 min chromatography MK RP18e 25 2 mm MS ESI m z 418.1 M H . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.88 s 1H 7.94 s 1H 7.84 7.86 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.57 7.59 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.28 s 1H 5.29 5.33 m 1H 4.31 s 1H 4.23 s 2H 4.08 4.14 m 2H 4.00 4.07 m 1H 3.06 3.11 q J 7.2 Hz 2H 2.28 2.31 m 1H 1.24 1.29 t J 7.6 Hz 3H 1.06 1.08 d J 7.2 Hz 3H 0.75 0.77 d J 6.4 Hz 3H . Isomer SFC t 6.964 7.904 and 9.124 min in 12 min chromatography AD 3 B2 5 40 25 ML ee 96.88 .

To a mixture of S N R 1 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl 2 hydroxyethyl 7 isopropyl 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboxamide 5.3 g 12.7 mmol and trans 4 trifluoromethyl cyclohexanecarbaldehyde 4.58 g 25.4 mmol in anhydrous MeOH 100 mL was added acetic acid dropwise until the pH was between 6 and 7. Sodium cyanoborohydride 3.19 g 50.8 mmol was added portionwise at rt. The mixture was heated to 70 C. and stirred for 1 h. The mixture was cooled to rt and quenched with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate 150 mL then extracted with ethyl acetate 3 200 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with ethyl acetate to give the product 6.63 g 90 as a light green solid which was purified by SFC separation and acid HCl preparative HPLC twice to give S N R 1 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl 2 hydroxyethyl 7 isopropyl 6 trans 4 trifluoromethyl cyclohexyl methyl 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboxamide 46 3551.7 mg 53 as a light yellow solid. LC MS t 0.634 min in 5 95AB 1.5 min chromatography MK RP 18e 25 2 mm MS ESI adz 582.1 M H . H NMR CDOD 400 MHz 9.12 9.13 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 9.31 9.32 d J 1.6 Hz 1H 7.91 7.93 dd J 6.8 1.6 Hz 2H 7.71 7.73 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 5.30 5.33 t J 6.4 Hz 1H 5.16 5.19 d J 15.2 Hz 1H 4.87 4.89 m 1H 4.70 4.74 d J 15.2 Hz 1H 3.93 3.95 d J 6.4 Hz 2H 3.30 3.35 m 2H 3.19 3.25 q J 7.6 Hz 2H 2.54 2.56 m 1H 2.25 2.27 m 1H 2.03 2.08 m 5H 1.45 1.48 m 2H 1.33 1.35 m 4H 1.23 1.27 m 4H 1.11 1.13 t J 6.8 Hz 3H . F NMR CDOD 400 MHz 75.39. Isomer SFC t 7.559 min in 12 min chromatography Column AD 3 B2 5 40 25 ML ee 100 . HCl preparative HPLC method Mobile phase A water with 0.05 HCl Mobile phase B CHCN. Flow rate 90 mL min Detection UV 220 nm 254 nm Column Phenomenex Synergi C18 250 50 mm 10 um. Column temperature 30 C. Time in min A B 0.00 87 13 30.0 57 43 30.20 0 100 35.00 0 100.

A mixture of S 6 tert butoxycarbonyl 7 ethyl 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboxylic acid 8 g 27.4 mmol HATU 12.5 g 32.9 mmol and triethylamine 8.32 g 11.5 mL 82.2 mmol in DMF 120 mL was stirred at rt for 0.5 h. R 2 amino 2 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl ethanol 6.9 g 30.1 mmol dissolved in DMF 30 mL was added dropwise to the mixture at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at rt for 2 h. LCMS showed no starting material remaining. The reaction mixture was diluted with water 100 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 200 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water 3 100 mL and brine 100 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with petroleum ether ethyl acetate 1 6 to 1 8 to give S tert butyl 7 ethyl 3 R 1 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl 2 hydroxyethyl carbamoyl 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 6 7H carboxylate 9.0 g 65 as a yellow solid. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.96 s 1H 8.01 s 1H 7.88 7.90 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.60 7.62 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.29 7.30 m 1H 5.32 5.35 m 1H 5.04 5.13 m 1H 4.76 4.82 m 1H 4.55 4.59 m 1H 4.00 4.13 m 2H 3.08 3.13 q J 7.6 Hz 2H 2.19 2.22 m 2H 1.53 s 9H 1.28 1.30 q J 7.6 Hz 3H 0.65 0.68 q J 7.2 Hz 3H . LC MS t 0.702 min in 5 95AB 1.5 min chromatography MERCK RP 18e 25 2 mm MS ESI m z 504.0 M H .

To a solution of S tert butyl 7 ethyl 3 R 1 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl 2 hydroxyethyl carbamoyl 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 6 7H carboxylate 9.0 g 17.9 mmol in CHCl 100 mL was added dropwise HCl 30 mL 4 N in dioxane at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at rt for 2 h. TLC petroleum ether ethyl acetate 1 3 showed no starting material remaining. The mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was basified to pH 9 10 with 10 aqueous NaOH solution then extracted with ethyl acetate 5 200 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford S 7 ethyl N R 1 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl 2 hydroxyethyl 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboxamide 7.2 g 100 as a yellow red solid which was used for the next step directly without further purification.

To a mixture of S 7 ethyl N R 1 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl 2 hydroxyethyl 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboxamide 7.2 g 17.8 mmol and trans 4 trifluoromethyl cyclohexanecarbaldehyde 4.81 g 26.7 mmol in anhydrous MeOH 100 mL was added acetic acid dropwise until the pH was between 6 and 7. Sodium cyanoborohydride 4.47 g 71.2 mmol was added portionwise at rt. The mixture was heated to 70 C. and stirred for 1 h. The mixture was cooled to rt and quenched with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate 150 mL then extracted with ethyl acetate 2 150 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with ethyl acetate then purified further by SFC separation AD H and acidic HCl preparative HPLC to give S 7 ethyl N R 1 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl 2 hydroxyethyl 6 trans 4 trifluoromethyl cyclohexyl methyl 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboxamide 41 total 4.5 g HCl salt 46 as a light yellow solid. LC MS t 0.662 min in 5 95AB 1.5 min chromatography RP 18e 25 2 mm MS ESI m z 568.0 M H . H NMR CDOD 400 MHz 9.07 s 1H 8.27 s 1H 7.88 7.90 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.67 7.69 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 5.26 5.29 t J 6.0 Hz 1H 5.06 5.10 m 2H 4.70 4.80 m 1H 3.90 3.91 d J 6.4 Hz 2H 3.30 3.43 m 2H 3.16 3.21 q J 7.2 Hz 2H 1.97 2.22 m 8H 1.18 1.46 m 10H . F NMR CDOD 400 MHz 75.39. HCl preparative HPLC method Mobile phase A water with 0.05 HCl Mobile phase B CHCN. Flow rate 80 mL min Detection UV 220 nm 254 nm Column Phenomenex Gemini C18 250 50 mm Sum. Column temperature 30 C. Time in min A B 0.00 70 30 8.00 45 55 8.20 0 100 10.00 0 100.

 S 7 ethyl N R 1 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl 2 hydroxyethyl 6 trans 4 trifluoromethyl cyclohexyl methyl 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboxamide HCl salt 993.2 mg 1.64 mmol was dissolved in CHCl 60 mL and washed with 1 N NaOH 40 mL . The aqueous layer was then back extracted with CHCl 4 5 mL . The combined CHCllayers were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The free amine 915.1 mg 1.61 mmol was redissolved in EtOH 10 mL and cooled to 0 C. Methanesulfonic acid Aldrich 99.5 171.3 mg 1.1 equiv was added with stirring to obtain a light yellow solution. Several crystal seeds were added to the solution which was then stirred at rt overnight white solid came out within 5 min Crystals were collected by filtration yielding 985.3 mg 92 of white solid after pumping under high vacuum for 4 h to afford S 7 ethyl N R 1 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl 2 hydroxyethyl 6 trans 4 trifluoromethyl cyclohexyl methyl 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboxamide mono mesylate. LC MS 2 min method t 0.93 min H NMR CDOD 400 MHz 9.06 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 9.01 s 1H 8.19 s 1H 7.83 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.62 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 5.22 dd J 7.2 6.0 Hz 1H 5.99 d J 14.8 Hz 1H 4.94 m 1H 4.61 d J 14.8 Hz 1H 3.84 d J 6.0 Hz 1H 3.41 m 2H 3.12 q J 7.2 Hz 2H 2.61 s 3H 2.20 1.80 m 8H 1.44 1.32 m 2H 1.26 t J 7.2 Hz 3H 1.20 m 2H 1.14 t J 7.2 Hz 3H . F NMR CDOD 400 MHz 75.50 d J 94 Hz .

Crystal seeds were obtained in the following manner to a solution of S 7 ethyl N R 1 4 ethylsulfonyl phenyl 2 hydroxyethyl 6 trans 4 trifluoromethyl cyclohexyl methyl 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 3 4 b pyridine 3 carboxamide 59.7 mg 0.11 mmol in ethyl acetate 0.5 mL was added methanesulfonic acid 19.8 mg 1.95 eq dropwise. The salt oiled out. After decanting the top layer of ethyl acetate the residue was dried over vacuum to remove any residual ethyl acetate. The residue was then redissolved in EtOH 5 mL by warming the solution up to give a clear solution. Crystals crashed out after standing at rt overnight 17.5 mg 25 .

The following compounds in Table 1 were prepared according to the methods described herein. Where designated an indicates that although a single diastereomer was isolated the absolute configuration about these positions was not fully characterized however the relative stereochemistry at one of the designated positions to the other designated position is as shown. Accordingly groups pairs of compounds exist e.g. compounds 1 and 4 2 and 5 3 and 6 10 and 11 14 and 15 18 and 21 29 and 30 34 and 42 and 39 and 42 where a single diastereomer was isolated and tested but where the absolute stereochemistry about the is arbitrarily defined. For example in compound 1 the trifluoromethyl group is trans relative to its connection to the dihydropyrrolopyridine core.

Compounds of the present invention were tested for ability to bind to ROR in a cell free competition assay with commercially available radio ligand RL 25 hydroxy 26 27 H cholesterol PerkinElmer Cat. NET674250UC for a ligand binding site on a recombinant ROR Ligand Binding Domain LBD protein expressed as a 6 His Glutathione S Transferase GST fusion. The assay was performed in 96 well SPA plates PerkinElmer Cat. 1450 401 in 50 mM HEPES buffer pH 7.4 containing 150 mM NaCl 5 mM MgCl 10 v v glycerol 2 mM CHAPS 0.5 mM octylglucopyranoside and 5 mM DTT. Tested compounds were dissolved in DMSO and semi log 3.162 serial dilutions of the compounds were prepared in the same solvent. Two L of the DMSO solutions were mixed with 28 L of 8.6 nM 25 hydroxy 26 27 H cholesterol and 50 L of 24 nM ROR LBD. The plate was shaken at 700 rpm for 20 min and incubated for 10 min at rt after which 40 L of poly Lys YSi SPA beads PerkinElmer Cat. RPNQ0010 were added to achieve 50 g of the beads per well. The plate was incubated on an orbital shaker for 20 min and then for 10 min without agitation at rt. SPA signal for tritium beta radiation was registered on PerkinElmer Microbeta plate reader. Percent inhibition values were calculated based on the high signal obtained with DMSO control and the low signal observed with 10 M standard ROR inverse agonist T0901317 SigmaAldrich Cat. T2320 . The percent inhibition vs. concentration data were fit into a four parameter model and IC50 values were calculated from the fit as the concentrations corresponding to the inflection points on the dose response curves Inhibitory constants Ki were calculated using the following equation where RL is the concentration in the assay and Kis a dissociation constant of 25 hydroxy 26 27 H cholesterol 

Compounds of the present invention were tested for ROR inverse agonist activity in a cell based transcriptional activity assay. Secreted Nanoluc luciferase was used as a reporter for transcriptional activity of the full length RORt in Jurkat cells ATCC Cat. TIB 152 . A reporter plasmid was constructed by inserting 5 repeats of the ROR Response Element RORE AAAGTAGGTCA SEQ ID NO 1 into a commercially available promoterless plasmid pNL1.3 secNluc Promega Cat. N1021 using KpnI and HindIII restriction sites. The expression plasmid for RORt was purchased GeneCopoeia Cat. EX T6988 MO2 . Jurkat cells 30 million cells were transfected with 11 g of EX T6988 MO2 and 26 g of the reporter plasmid in OptiMEM media using Lipofectamine LTX and Plus reagents Life Technologies Cat. 15338 100 . After 5 6 hr incubation at 37 C. 5 CO the cells were collected resuspended in phenol red free RPMI media containing 10 v v dilapidated FBS Hyclone Cat. SH30855.03 and dispensed into 96 well clear bottom tissue culture plates CoStar Cat. 3603 at 80 000 cells per well. Tested compounds were added to the cells in the same media final concentration of DMSO was 0.1 v v and the plates were incubated at 37 C. 5 COfor 16 18 hr. Luciferase activity in the conditioned supernatants was determined with NanoGlo assay reagents Promega Cat. N1130 . Percent inhibition values were calculated based on the fully inhibited and non inhibited DMSO controls and the values were regressed against concentrations of the tested compounds to derive IC50 values using a four parameter non linear fitting model.

Compounds of the invention were tested in the human whole blood assay to measure their effects on IL 17A production as determined by cytokine secretion into 50 blood media supernatant. Mixtures of sodium heparinized whole blood isolated from healthy human donors and the T cell activator CytoStim in the presence or absence of compound were plated in sterilized tissue culture treated 24 well plates. Specifically the mixtures in each well were as follows 1 500 L of whole blood 2 250 L of compound diluted into RPMI 1640 media containing 10 HyClone FCS Thermo Fisher Scientific Waltham Mass. Gibco Pen Strep and Gibco NEAA Life Technologies Grand Island N.Y. and 3 250 L of CytoStim Miltenyi Biotech Germany diluted to a final concentration of 10 L mL in complete cell culture medium.

Mixtures were incubated at 37 C. 5 COfor 48 h after which 200 L of clean supernatant i.e. no red blood cells from each well was transferred to a well in a 96 well plate. IL 17A cytokine expression was determined using 25 L of the transferred supernatant diluted with 25 L of Diluent 43 from the Human IL 17A V PLEX kit cat. K151RFD 4 Meso Scale Discovery Rockville Md. . The assay was performed according to the manufacturer s instructions using included reagents. The IL 17A V PLEX plates were read using the Meso Scale Discovery Imager Model 1200 . The levels of IL 17A were extrapolated from a standard curve using a four parameter non linear fitting model and expressed as pg mL. These values were regressed against concentrations of the tested compounds to derive ICvalues using a four parameter non linear fitting model.

Compounds of the invention were tested in vitro against the hERG human ether go go related gene potassium ion channel a surrogate for IKr the rapidly activating delayed rectifier cardiac potassium ion channel .

The buffer was HEPES buffered physiological saline HB PS solution composed of 137 mM NaCl 4.0 mM KCl 1.8 mM CaCl 1 mM MgCl 10 mM HEPES 10 mM glucose pH adjusted to 7.4 with NaOH and 0.3 DMSO. Chemicals used in solution preparation were purchased from Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. unless otherwise noted and were of ACS reagent grade purity or higher.

For the patch clamp experiment onset and steady state inhibition of hERG potassium current was measured using a pulse pattern with fixed amplitudes depolarization 20 mV for 2 s repolarization 50 mV for 2 s repeated at 10 s intervals from a holding potential of 80 mV. Peak tail current was measured during the 2 s step to 50 mV. A steady state was maintained for at least 30 seconds before applying compound or positive control cisapride . Peak tail currents were measured until a new steady state was achieved.

Data acquisition and analyses were performed using the suite of pCLAMP ver. 8.2 programs MDS Analytical Technologies Sunnyvale Calif. . Steady state was defined by the limiting constant rate of change with time linear time dependence . The steady state before and after each compound application was used to calculate the percentage of current inhibited at each concentration.

Concentration response data were fit to an equation of the following form Inhibition 1 1 1 Test IC50 N 100

where Test was the compound concentration IC50 was the compound concentration at half maximal inhibition N was the Hill coefficient and Inhibition was the percentage of current inhibited at each compound concentration. Nonlinear least squares fits were solved with the Solver add in for Excel 2003 Microsoft WA and the IC50 was calculated.

While we have described a number of embodiments of this invention it is apparent that our basic examples may be altered to provide other embodiments that utilize the compounds and methods of this invention. Therefore it will be appreciated that the scope of this invention is to be defined by the appended claims rather than by the specific embodiments that have been represented by way of example.

The contents of all references including literature references issued patents published patent applications and co pending patent applications cited throughout this application are hereby expressly incorporated herein in their entireties by reference. Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein are accorded the meaning commonly known to one with ordinary skill in the art.

