---

title: Method and apparatus for an integrated capacitor
abstract: An integrated capacitor can be fabricated with both electrodes formed by trenches for low resistance. According to one embodiment, the capacitor can comprise a first trench electrode, one or more dielectric layers, and a second trench electrode. The first trench electrode and the second trench electrode can be fabricated in different trenches to improve capacitance density and resistance of the integrated capacitor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09559158&OS=09559158&RS=09559158
owner: THE HONG KONG UNIVERSITY OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
number: 09559158
owner_city: Kowloon
owner_country: HK
publication_date: 20160108
---
The present application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 125 065 filed Jan. 12 2015 and entitled An Integrated Capacitor with Both Electrodes Formed by Trenches the entirety of which application is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure relates to an integrated capacitor. More specifically this disclosure relates to an integrated capacitor with both electrodes formed by trenches for low resistance.

Capacitors are indispensable parts for various electronic systems which are widely used for signal filtering and decoupling energy transfer and storage and charge information retention. Integration of capacitors with high capacitance density and low resistance are leverage in many applications.

For instance integrated capacitors can be use for power converters especially power converters with small sizes e.g. for portable and wearable electronics fully integrated power supply on chip PwrSoC applications point of load POL applications and granularity power supply applications . Power converters use capacitors to store or release energy at different intervals for a smooth and stable output voltage. For example in linear voltage regulators or inductive switched mode power converters capacitors are connected in parallel with the load to absorb the excessive energy when the output voltage increases and releases the stored energy when the output voltage drops. In switched capacitor power converters capacitors are used as medium to transfer energy from the input to the load by charging and discharging. In both cases there will be a ripple current flowing through the capacitor. As a result integrated capacitors with low resistance are important for achieving high efficiency power converters.

Another application that leverages capacitors with low resistance are microwaves. In order to achieve a smaller signal distortion lower loss and create less heat dissipation in a microwave system high quality factor Q capacitors can be used. The Q factor of a capacitor is defined as the ratio of its reactance to its resistance. Therefore in order to build integrated microwave systems integrated capacitors with lower resistance can be leveraged to increase the Q factor.

This background relating to fabrication of integrated capacitors is merely intended to provide a contextual overview of some current capacitor fabrication technology and is not intended to be exhaustive. Other context regarding current state may become apparent upon review of the following detailed description.

A simplified summary is provided herein to help enable a basic or general understanding of various aspects of exemplary non limiting embodiments that follow in the more detailed description and the accompanying drawings. This summary is not intended however as an extensive or exhaustive overview. Instead the purpose of this summary is to present some concepts related to some exemplary non limiting embodiments in simplified form as a prelude to more detailed description of the various embodiments that follow in the disclosure.

This disclosure proposes an integrated trench capacitor with low resistance. In the proposed capacitor both the first electrode and the second electrode of the capacitor can be trench electrodes that can be formed inside the different trenches of a semiconductor substrate. One or both of the electrodes can be isolated from the substrate by a dielectric layer. The trenches can function to increase the area of the dielectric layer and in turn increase the capacitance density. However by accommodating the first electrode and the second electrode in different trenches the trench capacitor can achieve two additional characteristics.

First additional characteristic is the capacitor can use thick conductive material for both of the electrodes. The depth of the trenches can be in the range of tens of m so filling the trenches with a highly conductive material can result in a thick conductive path. Compared with other capacitors using a thin 1 m metal track above the substrate surface the thick conductive path can significantly reduce the resistance of the capacitor. When the area of the capacitor is large for example in power converters the routing for two electrodes can be very long. However using a thick conductive path instead of a thin metal track can reduce the resistance of the capacitor.

The second characteristic of the proposed capacitor is shorter current path between two electrodes which is resulted from both first electrode and the second electrode being extended into the substrate via the trenches. Compared with the prior arts in which one of the electrodes is located on the surface part of the current must start near the bottom of a trench and flow to the electrode on the surface. In this case the length of the current path is similar to the depth of the trench. However in this disclosure the length of a current path between the two electrodes is determined by the distance between the two electrodes which is usually an order of magnitude smaller than the depth of the trench. Therefore the parasitic resistance due to the current flowing between two electrodes are reduced by minimizing the current path length.

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the corresponding disclosure various non limiting aspects are described in connection with integrated capacitor devices. In an exemplary non limiting embodiment an integrated capacitor can be formed by a substrate comprising a dielectric layer a first electrode comprising conductive material formed in a trench and a second electrode comprising conductive material formed in another trench wherein the first electrode and the second electrode are isolated from the substrate by a dielectric layer.

In another exemplary non limiting embodiment a method is described that can facilitate the production of an integrated capacitors. The method can comprise forming trenches for accommodating electrodes on a semiconductor substrate and forming a dielectric layer on the semiconductor substrate and the trenches. The method can also comprise forming a conductive layer comprising a conductive material on the semiconductor substrate and the trenches and removing a portion of the conductive material on the surface of the substrate and keeping the conductive material in the trench.

In yet another exemplary non limiting embodiment a method is described that can facilitate the production of an integrated capacitor. The method can comprise forming trenches for accommodating electrodes of the capacitor on a first side of a semiconductor substrate and forming other trenches for electrical connections on a second side of the semiconductor substrate. A dielectric layer can also be formed on the semiconductor substrate and the trenches and a conductive layer comprising a conductive material can be formed on the semiconductor substrate. These and other embodiments or implementations are described in more detail below with reference to the drawings.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the techniques described herein can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring certain aspects.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus the appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in one aspect or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

As utilized herein terms component system interface and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity hardware software e.g. in execution and or firmware. For example a component can be a processor a process running on a processor an object an executable a program a storage device and or a computer. By way of illustration an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Further these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components can communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network e.g. the Internet a local area network a wide area network etc. with other systems via the signal .

As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry the electric or electronic circuitry can be operated by a software application or a firmware application executed by one or more processors the one or more processors can be internal or external to the apparatus and can execute at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include one or more processors therein to execute software and or firmware that confer s at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. In an aspect a component can emulate an electronic component via a virtual machine e.g. within a cloud computing system.

The words exemplary and or demonstrative are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the subject matter disclosed herein is not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect or design described herein as exemplary and or demonstrative is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

As used herein the term infer or inference refers generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment user and or intent from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Captured data and events can include user data device data environment data data from sensors sensor data application data implicit data explicit data etc. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events for example.

Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources. Various classification schemes and or systems e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic and data fusion engines can be employed in connection with performing automatic and or inferred action in connection with the disclosed subject matter.

In addition the disclosed subject matter can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device computer readable carrier or computer readable media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to a magnetic storage device e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strip s an optical disk e.g. compact disk CD a digital video disc DVD a Blu ray Disc BD a smart card a flash memory device e.g. card stick key drive and or a virtual device that emulates a storage device and or any of the above computer readable media.

A typical capacitor can include three parts a first electrode a dielectric layer and a second electrode. Usually in integrated capacitors high aspect ratio trenches are used to increase the effective area of the dielectric layer for a higher capacitance density. The placement and arrangement of these three parts can result in different structures. In various embodiments herein processes are used to create an integrated capacitor. To correct for the above identified deficiencies and or other drawbacks of integrated capacitors various embodiments are described herein to facilitate the creation of integrated capacitors with a small parasitic resistance.

Referring now to illustrated is a schematic of a top view of an example capacitor. A substrate can comprise a first electrode and a second electrode which are both formed by filling trenches with a conductive material. The first electrode and the second electrode can be isolated from the substrate by dielectric layers .

Referring now to illustrated is a schematic of an example three dimensional view of a capacitor. An inter electrode current can flow through a substrate as shown. The length of a current path of the inter electrode current is the distance between two trenches of a first electrode and a second electrode wherein the first electrode and the second electrode are isolated from the substrate by a dielectric layer . The capacitor represented in can allow the inter electrode current to flow uniformly to avoid current crowding and thus resulted in a lower resistance.

Referring now to illustrated is a schematic of an example cross sectional view of a capacitor. A first electrode and a second electrode can be interleaved into a substrate . To decrease resistance within the capacitor a doped region can be formed around trenches of the first electrode and the second electrode . The doped region can have the same or different type of doping with substrate . If the doping of region and substrate are of different types e.g. p type and n type a junction isolation can be formed between region and substrate .

Referring now to illustrated is a schematic of an example capacitor with vias to connect two electrodes. In this structure the trenches of the capacitor are formed on one surface A of a substrate and the two electrodes of the capacitor are connected by vias to the other surface B of the substrate . Surface B is on the opposite side of substrate to surface A . The two electrodes of the capacitor can be isolated from the substrate by dielectric layers . Therefore surface B can be used for placement of other circuit components such as integrated circuits and power transistors which can result in a compact integration of capacitors and other circuit components.

Referring now to illustrated is a schematic of an example cross sectional view of the capacitor with vias to connect the two electrodes. In this figure trenches are formed on surface A so that surface B of the substrate is available for placing other circuit components. The first electrode and the second electrode can be connected by vias to surface B of the substrate .

Referring now to illustrated is a schematic of an example process flow for fabrication of the capacitor. A formation of trenches in a semiconductor substrate can be accomplished by dry etching wet etching electrochemical etching or other etching techniques. After the formation of trenches an optional step of doping the semiconductor substrate in proximity to the trenches can be performed for additional reduction of resistance and or forming junction isolation with the substrate . A formation of a dielectric layer can be facilitated by thermal oxidation or other deposition technology such as chemical vapor deposition evaporation sputtering or atomic layer deposition. Dielectric layer can be silicon dioxide silicon nitride aluminum oxide hafnium oxide and any other type of dielectric material or a combination stack of two or more dielectric materials. Thereafter a formation of a conductive layer can be accomplished wherein the conductive layer can be a highly doped poly silicon formed by chemical vapor deposition sputtering electroplated copper deposited aluminum gold titanium or other good conducting material. Subsequently a removal of a portion or an excess of a conductive material used to form the conductive layer can be facilitated by chemical mechanical polishing or etching so that the two electrodes of the capacitor can be separated and isolated from each other.

Referring now to illustrated a schematic of an example cross sectional view where only one electrode is isolated from the substrate by the dielectric layer. In this embodiment only one of the electrodes e.g. for this example the first electrode is isolated with the substrate by the dielectric layer . The other electrode e.g. the second electrode is directly contacted with the substrate in the trenches. It should be noted that for this particular embodiment the first electrode was isolated but in practice any electrode e.g. first second third etc. can be isolated based on an associated naming convention.

Referring now to illustrated a schematic of another example process flow for fabrication of the capacitor with vias formed on the other surface of the substrate. A formation of trenches in a semiconductor substrate can be accomplished by dry etching wet etching electrochemical etching or other etching techniques. After the formation of trenches an optional step of doping the semiconductor substrate in proximity to the trenches can be performed for additional reduction of resistance and or forming junction isolation with substrate . Next a formation of trenches for vias can be formed from the other side of the substrate. A formation of a dielectric layer can be facilitated by thermal oxidation or other deposition technology such as chemical vapor deposition evaporation sputtering or atomic layer deposition. Thereafter a formation of a conductive layer can be accomplished wherein the conductive layer can be a highly doped poly silicon formed by chemical vapor deposition sputtered or electroplated copper or other good conducting material. Subsequently a removal of a portion or an excess of a conductive material used to form the conductive layer can be facilitated by chemical mechanical polishing or etching so that the two electrodes of the capacitor can be separated and isolated from each other.

Referring now to illustrated is a schematic of an example process for designing a routing layout for two electrodes. 1 level routing can extend from two pads of a first and a second electrode of the capacitor at . At a 2 level routing can extend from the 1 level routing and illustrates a 3 level routing can extend from the 2 level routing. At a 4 level routing can extend from the 3 level routing. In practice more or less levels of routing can be introduced depending on the size and pitch of the routings. The aforementioned interleaved layout can effectively utilize the area and also suppress eddy current in the electrode and the substrate.

Referring now to illustrated is a schematic of an example curved and formed routing. shows the routing in the form of triangular polyline.

Referring now to illustrated is a schematic of an example rugged formed routing. shows that the angles formed by straight lines in can be replaced with rounded corners to improve a breakdown voltage.

Referring now to illustrated is a schematic process flow diagram of a method for creating a capacitor. At element trenches can be formed for electrodes on a semiconductor substrate. At element a dielectric layer can be deposited on a semiconductor substrate. A conductive layer comprising a conductive material can be formed on the semiconductor substrate at element and a portion of the conductive material can be removed at element .

It is noted a computer environment can be utilized to execute or implement portion s of the various embodiments described herein e.g. switching or voltage control. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the various aspects such as switching or voltage control can be implemented as software hardware or in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated aspects may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

A computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital video disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer.

Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media. Further computer instructions operations can be stored in memory in the form of non transitory or tangible computing elements e.g. computer readable storage medium where such instructions operations can be executed e.g. by a processor to facilitate operation of one or more exemplary non limiting embodiments as presented herein.

As used in this application the terms component system platform layer controller terminal station node interface are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to or that is part of an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein such entities can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical or magnetic storage medium including affixed e.g. screwed or bolted or removably affixed solid state storage drives an object an executable a thread of execution a computer executable program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also components as described herein can execute from various computer readable storage media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or a firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that provides at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components. While the foregoing examples are directed to aspects of a component the exemplified aspects or features also apply to a system platform interface layer controller terminal and the like.

What has been described above includes examples of the various embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the disclosed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the various embodiments are possible. Accordingly the disclosed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects of the disclosed subject matter. In this regard it will also be recognized that the disclosed subject matter includes a system as well as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods of the disclosed subject matter.

In addition while a particular feature of the disclosed subject matter may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes and including and variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

As used herein the terms to infer and inference refer generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Furthermore the term set as employed herein excludes the empty set e.g. the set with no elements therein. Thus a set in the subject disclosure includes one or more elements or entities. As an illustration a set of controllers includes one or more controllers a set of data resources includes one or more data resources etc. Likewise the term group as utilized herein refers to a collection of one or more entities e.g. a group of nodes refers to one or more nodes.

In this application the word exemplary is used to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion.

The above description of illustrated embodiments of the subject disclosure including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosed embodiments to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments and examples are described herein for illustrative purposes various modifications are possible that are considered within the scope of such embodiments and examples as those skilled in the relevant art can recognize.

In this regard while the subject matter has been described herein in connection with various embodiments and corresponding FIGs where applicable it is to be understood that other similar embodiments can be used or modifications and additions can be made to the described embodiments for performing the same similar alternative or substitute function of the disclosed subject matter without deviating therefrom. Therefore the disclosed subject matter should not be limited to any single embodiment described herein but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims below.

