---

title: Service node originated service chains in a network environment
abstract: An example method for service node originated service chains in a network environment is provided and includes receiving a packet at a service node in a network environment that includes a plurality of service nodes and a central classifier, analyzing the packet for a service chain modification or a service chain initiation, classifying the packet at the service node to a new service chain based on the analysis, initiating the new service chain at the service node if the analysis indicates service chain initiation, and modifying an existing service chain for the packet to the new service chain if the analysis indicates service chain modification. In specific embodiments, the analysis includes applying classification logic specific to the service node. Some embodiments, service node attributes and order of service nodes in substantially all service chains configured in the network may be received from a central controller.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09608896&OS=09608896&RS=09608896
owner: CISCO TECHNOLOGY, INC.
number: 09608896
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160406
---
This Application is a continuation and claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 208 453 filed Mar. 13 2014 entitled SERVICE NODE ORIGINATED SERVICE CHAINS IN A NETWORK ENVIRONMENT Inventor SURENDRA M. KUMAR ET AL. The disclosure of the prior application is considered part of and are incorporated by reference in the disclosure of this application.

This disclosure relates in general to the field of communications and more particularly to service node originated service chains in a network environment.

Data centers are increasingly used by enterprises for effective collaboration and interaction and to store data and resources. A typical data center network contains myriad network elements including hosts load balancers routers switches etc. The network connecting the network elements provides secure user access to data center services and an infrastructure for deployment interconnection and aggregation of shared resource as required including applications hosts appliances and storage. Improving operational efficiency and optimizing utilization of resources in data centers are some of the challenges facing data center managers. Data center managers want a resilient infrastructure that consistently supports diverse applications and services and protects the applications and services against disruptions. A properly planned and operating data center network provides application and data integrity and optimizes application availability and performance.

An example method for service node originated service chains in a network environment is provided and includes receiving a packet at a service node in a network environment that includes a plurality of service nodes and a central classifier analyzing e.g. parsing reading examining evaluating assessing investigating probing etc. the packet for a service chain modification or a service chain initiation classifying e.g. categorizing ordering tagging labeling grouping etc. the packet at the service node to a new service chain based on the analysis initiating the new service chain at the service node if the analysis indicates service chain initiation and modifying an existing service chain for the packet to the new service chain if the analysis indicates service chain modification.

As used herein the term service node comprises a physical or virtual network element that can provide one or more network services such as firewall Deep Packet Inspection DPI Lawful Intercept LI etc. to packets traversing the network. As used herein the term network element is meant to encompass computers network appliances servers routers switches gateways bridges load balancers intrusion detection appliances processors modules or any other suitable device component element or object operable to exchange information in a network environment. Moreover the network elements may include any suitable hardware software components modules interfaces or objects that facilitate the operations thereof. This may be inclusive of appropriate algorithms and communication protocols that allow for the effective exchange of data or information. The term service chain refers to one or more network services chained e.g. connected attached coupled etc. in a specific order to provide a composite service to packets traversing the network.

Turning to is a simplified block diagram illustrating a communication system for service node originated service chains in a network environment in accordance with one example embodiment. illustrates a network comprising a plurality of service nodes N where N can represent any suitable integer greater than 1. A plurality of workloads M may communicate over network . For example workload may send packet to workload M workload may send packet to workload and so on. A central classifier in network may classify packets e.g. packet appropriately to various service chains . For example service chain may be specified as a sequence of service nodes service chain may be specified as another sequence of service nodes service chain may be specified as yet another sequence of service nodes N service chain may be specified as yet another sequence of service nodes and so on.

According to various embodiments of communication system network may be configured with secondary classifiers that can inject or switch service chains dynamically based on classification of packets at certain service nodes N . For example secondary classifier may be located at service node secondary classifier may be located at service node secondary classifier may be located at service node and so on. Secondary classifier may direct packet on to service chain as it traverses network to workload secondary classifier may dynamically modify the service chain assigned by central classifier to packet and divert packet from service chain to secondary classifier may further modify the service chain assigned by secondary classifier to packet and divert packet from service chain to service chain .

As used herein the term classifier refers to an application e.g. logical entity executing in a network element that identifies and classifies network traffic e.g. data traversing the network usually formatted into packets to follow different service chains based on pre configured service characteristics e.g. packets matching a specific tuple of fields in Ethernet Internet Protocol IP Transmission Control Protocol TCP hyper text transfer protocol HTTP headers etc. or service policies e.g. access ports quality of service etc. applied to the network traffic. The classification may include a locally instantiated policy and customer or network or service profile matching of traffic flows for identification of appropriate outbound forwarding actions. The classifier creates a service path e.g. a path that traffic flows are forwarded through in a service chain comprising the series of service nodes that together form the service chain. There may be multiple paths in a particular service chain. Each service chain processes a specific service flow of network traffic.

For purposes of illustrating the techniques of communication system it is important to understand the communications that may be traversing the system shown in . The following foundational information may be viewed as a basis from which the present disclosure may be properly explained. Such information is offered earnestly for purposes of explanation only and accordingly should not be construed in any way to limit the broad scope of the present disclosure and its potential applications.

Network services are widely deployed and essential in many networks. The services can provide a range of functions such as security wide area network WAN acceleration and server load balancing. Services that form part of an overall composite service may be physically located at different points in the network infrastructure such as the wide area network data center enterprise campus etc. For some network services traffic is forwarded through a sequence of network functions which usually have dedicated capabilities other than forwarding e.g. firewall. Forwarding traffic along a sequence of service processing functions is typically based on service characteristics. For example certain traffic may be directed to a domain border gateway for monitoring and charging certain other traffic may be steered through a load balancer to distribute performance pressure before forwarding to data center services mobile network operators may split mobile broadband traffic and steer them along different offloading paths firewalls may be used to filter traffic for Intrusion Detection System IDS Intrusion Protection System IPS security gateways may be used to encrypt decrypt traffic certain traffic that traverses different network technology segments such as IPv4 IPv6 may be directed to a carrier grade network address translator CGNAT etc.

In some network architectures e.g. Cisco Distributed Virtual Switch DVS vPath integrates services with the network. vPath enables traffic redirection service chaining and infrastructure programmability. vPath uses a service overlay to steer traffic to the services. A vPath 3.0 service header or network service header NSH is used as an encapsulation header to carry a forwarding state identification e.g. service path identifier and a service index . The service header can uniquely identify a particular service chain and location of the packet carrying the service header within the service chain at any given time. The service header can facilitate determining a next hop service function when used in conjunction with a service forwarding table which represents a forwarding state at the service nodes. In such network architectures the central classifiers impose the service header e.g. vPath 3.0 NSH on the selected traffic and initializes the service path identifier and the service index in the service header. After each service delivery the service index is decremented at the service node to indicate service delivery.

In some network architectures the service chains are specified by a network operator in an external central controller e.g. external to the service nodes . The controller resolves service chain identifiers to corresponding forwarding states in the network identified by respective service path identifiers. The controller distributes the forwarding states and the corresponding service path identifiers identifiers across the entire network infrastructure via proprietary control protocols or standard protocols like border gateway protocol BGP . Network elements such as the switches and routers acting as the classifiers select and classify traffic to be forwarded along various service chains.

However existing service chaining schemes limit selection and initiation of service chains to centrally located network nodes in the network. In addition service chain selection is static e.g. service chain does not change for the life of a specific flow in the network . In typical service chain architectures network traffic is delivered to a few central classifiers which alone identify traffic and classify the network traffic into service flows. The service flows are forwarded to respective service chains according to forwarding rules configured in the central classifiers. After a particular service flow is configured and set up in the network the service chain configured for the service flow does not change all packets meeting the relevant service characteristics and policies are sent through the corresponding service chain of the service flow irrespective of any other criteria e.g. change in the network topology such as addition or deletion of servers .

Communication system is configured to address these issues among others to offer a system and method for service node originated service chains in a network environment. According to various embodiments service nodes N maybe enabled to initiate and or modify service chains into network based on classification criteria specific to respective service node N or the application e.g. composite service that respective service node N is part of. In some embodiments the injection of the service chain may either start a new service chain on traffic entering respective service node N in other embodiments the existing service chain may be replaced with a different service chain at respective N . Respective service node N may program network to associate flows including non existent or future flows to the injected service chain. Embodiments of communication system can enable service nodes N to dynamically e.g. in real time specify service chains for traffic and to steer the traffic on a graph topology e.g. formed by service nodes N .

Assume merely for the sake of example and not as a limitation that packet is received at service node . Secondary classifier at service node may analyze packet for a service chain modification or a service chain initiation. In various embodiments the analysis can comprise application classification specific logic particular to service node . Assume merely for example purposes and not as a limitation that central classifier is configured to send substantially all traffic to workload M which can represent a website application through service chain assume also that service node can perform DPI and determine whether the packet includes malicious content. Service node may be configured with appropriate DPI specific classification logic including policies and rules that specify steering malicious traffic to an anti virus network service executing on service node and to other service nodes appropriately.

Assume that service node performs DPI on packet and determines that it contains malicious content. Based on the analysis secondary classifier may classify packet at service node to a new service chain which includes steering packet to service node and other service nodes. Moreover the analysis also includes determining whether packet is received on a service overlay e.g. if packet is already assigned to a specific service chain or in an underlay e.g. if packet is not already assigned to a specific service chain . If the packet is received on the service overlay the analysis may indicate service chain modification if the packet is received in the underlay the analysis may indicate service chain initiation.

Secondary classifier may modify existing service chain of packet to new service chain if its analysis indicates service chain modification. In various embodiments packet may be associated with a service header associated with the service overlay. The service header may comprise a NSH or vPath 3.0 header including a service path field e.g. identifies the forwarding path of a specific service chain and a service index field e.g. specifying a location within the forwarding path . Secondary classifier may update the service path field and the service index field in the service header of packet to modify existing service chain to new service chain for packet . Substantially all subsequent packets belonging to the same traffic flow as packet may be subjected to new service chain as long as the DPI specific classification logic and other parameters indicate as such.

In some embodiments the existing service chain may be assigned by central classifier or by another service node. For example secondary classifier at service node may reclassify the packet and modify existing service chain assigned by service node to new service chain . Note that the modifying and initiation of service chains may be performed in real time e.g. concurrently as the packets flow through the service node .

In another example assume that packet is received at service node from workload . Note that workload may be included within a local area network comprising service node in some embodiments in other embodiments workload may be outside the local area network comprising service node and may communicate with service node via various other network elements that are not shown in the figure. Secondary classifier at service node may analyze packet for a service chain modification or a service chain initiation. Based on the analysis secondary classifier may classify packet at service node to a new service chain . Secondary classifier may initiate new service chain at service node if its analysis indicates service chain initiation. In yet another example service node may be coupled to workload e.g. both executing through the same application etc. and consequently packet may be initiated at service node . In such a scenario packet may not be received at service node on any service overlay or underlay but rather may be received at service node by virtue of origination thereat. Secondary classifier may analyze packet and classify it accordingly.

In addition even though packet does not include a service header secondary classifier may impose a service header appropriately. For example secondary classifier may choose a specific service index and service path identifying service chain and generate a service header for packet including the specific service index and service path.

In various embodiments secondary classifiers may receive service node attributes including location of respective service nodes N in network and order of service nodes N in substantially all service chains configured in network from a central controller. The interaction with the controller may involve a standards based Representational state transfer REST interface or a proprietary interface as appropriate.

In some embodiments service nodes N may be suitably modified by secondary classifiers e.g. to initiate service paths e.g. similar to central classifier and change e.g. re steer service paths which result in dynamic service paths in network . Service nodes N suitably modified by secondary classifiers e.g. can use solution specific e.g. custom network operator specified etc. logic as a policy to select the service paths and can pre program service paths in the infrastructure. In addition service nodes N suitably modified by secondary classifiers e.g. can use offloads when selecting service paths and change the service path based on flow state e.g. a set of network properties such as flow duration connection status etc. a network operator can define a specific flow state based on any suitable network property ies . Moreover legacy service chains e.g. VLAN stitching based or hard wired can be bridged with overlay based chains suitably. For example the modified service node can classify traffic coming from the legacy service chain and originate an overlay based service chain in the service node according to service node specific logic as appropriate.

Turning to the infrastructure of communication system the network topology can include any number of servers hardware accelerators virtual machines switches including distributed virtual switches routers and other nodes inter connected to form a large and complex network. A node may be any electronic device client server peer service application or other object capable of sending receiving or forwarding information over communications channels in a network. Elements of may be coupled to one another through one or more interfaces employing any suitable connection wired or wireless which provides a viable pathway for electronic communications. Additionally any one or more of these elements may be combined or removed from the architecture based on particular configuration needs.

Communication system may include a configuration capable of TCP IP communications for the electronic transmission or reception of data packets in a network. Communication system may also operate in conjunction with a User Datagram Protocol Internet Protocol UDP IP or any other suitable protocol where appropriate and based on particular needs. In addition gateways routers switches and any other suitable nodes physical or virtual may be used to facilitate electronic communication between various nodes in the network.

Note that the numerical and letter designations assigned to the elements of do not connote any type of hierarchy the designations are arbitrary and have been used for purposes of teaching only. Such designations should not be construed in any way to limit their capabilities functionalities or applications in the potential environments that may benefit from the features of communication system . It should be understood that communication system shown in is simplified for ease of illustration.

The example network environment may be configured over a physical infrastructure that may include one or more networks and further may be configured in any form including but not limited to local area networks LANs wireless local area networks WLANs VLANs metropolitan area networks MANs VPNs Intranet Extranet any other appropriate architecture or system or any combination thereof that facilitates communications in a network. The example network environment of home network may be configured over a physical infrastructure that may include WLANs including Bluetooth and wired LANs.

In some embodiments a communication link may represent any electronic link supporting a LAN environment such as for example cable Ethernet wireless technologies e.g. IEEE 802.11x ATM fiber optics etc. or any suitable combination thereof. In other embodiments communication links may represent a remote connection through any appropriate medium e.g. digital subscriber lines DSL telephone lines T1 lines T3 lines wireless satellite fiber optics cable Ethernet etc. or any combination thereof and or through any additional networks such as a wide area networks e.g. the Internet .

In various embodiments service nodes N can comprise physical service appliances e.g. stand alone boxes plugged into network appropriately. In other embodiments service nodes N can comprise service cards attached internally within another network element such as a router or switch in network . In yet other embodiments service nodes N can comprise applications executing on suitable network elements e.g. servers switches routers etc. in network . In some embodiments service nodes N can comprise a combination of the above.

In various embodiments central classifier and secondary classifiers may comprise applications executing on suitable network elements to perform their respective operations. Secondary classifiers may execute concurrently with service nodes N . Note that any suitable number of secondary classifiers and central classifier may be instantiated in network within the broad scope of the embodiments. In various embodiments central classifier may differ from secondary classifiers in at least one functionality namely central classifier may only initiate service chains according to configured policies and rules and may not modify existing service chains if any.

Workloads M may represent any suitable network endpoint. In various embodiments workloads M may comprise separate computing devices running applications e.g. server client applications in client server network architecture . In other embodiments workloads M may comprise separate virtual machines on the same or different computing devices e.g. server blades in a data center . In some embodiments workloads M may include server blades configured in one or more chassis.

In various embodiments workloads M central classifier and service nodes N may be connected in network over a distributed virtual switch which can include physical and virtual switches and any suitable network element capable of receiving packets and forwarding packets appropriately in a network environment. Any number of workloads and service nodes may be active within network within the broad scope of the embodiments.

Turning to is a simplified block diagram illustrating example details of another embodiment of communication system . Example service node may include a secondary classifier . A plurality of flows e.g. a flow comprises a set of unidirectional IP packets having common characteristic properties including source IP address source TCP port etc. may traverse service node at any given instant. Merely as examples and not as limitations assume that flow is classified to service chain A flow is classified to service chain B and flow is not classified to any service chain. Secondary classifier in service node may comprise a configuration module including a set of service paths policies and rules applicable to certain solutions and services provided by service node . Secondary classifier may also include a traffic analyzer a service chain originator and a service chain modifier . Service node may include a processor a memory element and a servicing module .

During configuration configuration module may be pre programmed with service paths policies and rules appropriately. For example a network operator may manually configure configuration module with service paths policies and rules . In another example service node may interface with a central controller and obtain service node attributes and order of service nodes in substantially all service chains configured in network . The interaction with the controller may involve a standards based REST interface or a proprietary interface as appropriate.

During operation as flows are processed by service node secondary classifier may perform various operations. For example traffic analyzer may analyze flows and determine 1 whether they are assigned to service chains e.g. by another service node or by a classifier and 2 whether a service chain modification or service chain initiation is appropriate. Traffic analyzer may detect a service header in flows and and determine that they are pre assigned to service chains. Traffic analyzer may apply policies and rules on flows . In some embodiments traffic analyzer may change service paths based on flow states. Traffic analyzer may determine that flow can receive a service chain modification flow can remain unchanged and flow can be assigned to a new service chain.

Accordingly service chain modifier may update the service header in packets belonging to flow with information from service paths to indicate a modified service chain A . Service chain originator may generate a new service header for packets in flow with information from service paths to indicate a new service chain C. Servicing module may service flows appropriately and forward them on to the next service hop according to the new service chains as appropriate.

Turning to is a simplified block diagram illustrating example details of an embodiment of communication system . Network may include a DVS controlled by a central controller and comprising various virtual Ethernet modules VEMs . Each VEM may be configured with a vPath architecture enabling seamless distribution of traffic in and out of DVS . Numerous workloads and service nodes may interact with DVS through appropriate interfaces. At least a portion of service nodes may be configured with secondary classifiers appropriately.

Service chains can be injected on traffic that is received on under over lay network or originated at a service node and also be injected for future traffic that may come through network over DVS . vPath network programmability may include service chains wherein service chains may be associated with flow specification or flow tuple when the flow specification is programmed in DVS .

In some embodiments for example where service nodes inject service chains the service nodes may first interact with controller to program the service chains and obtain the service path identifiers. Programming the service chains may involve describing the service node attributes e.g. including among other parameters the network location where the service node can be reached and the order of the service nodes in the service chain. The interaction with controller may involve standards based RESTful interface such as HTTPS or a proprietary interface. Embodiments of communication system can embed solution specific classification logic into solution specific service nodes. As long as traffic arrives at the service node either due to steering from the network on a service overlay or due to traffic reception on the underlay or origination of traffic at the service node the service node can select and impose service chains independent of the network or infrastructure.

Merely for example purposes and not as a limitation assume service node comprises a load balancer. The load balancer service node and controller may interact to resolve a pair to a specific service path identifier. When load balancer service node classifies the traffic and selects a real server in the server farm it uses the resolved service path identifier to inject the service chain. In this sense a terminating service or an edge service can be part of a service chain.

Turning to illustrates example details of a base header of a NSH according to an embodiment of communication system . A service index field and a service path field may be included in NSH . During classification or re classification secondary classifier may update service index field and service path field appropriately. Note that NSH may include various other fields and may be presented in various different formats e.g. wherein fields are placed in locations different from those shown in the figure all of which are included within the broad scope of the embodiments of communication system .

Turning to is a simplified flow diagram illustrating example operations that may be associated with embodiments of communication system . At service node may receive service path identifiers from controller . At service node may program various service chains into secondary classifier according to the service path identifiers. At service node may receive policies and rules for traffic flow analysis. In various embodiments policies and rules may be specific to the services provided by service node .

Turning to is a simplified flow diagram illustrating example operations that may be associated with embodiments of communication system . At a packet e.g. may be received at service node . At packet may be analyzed by secondary classifier in service node . At a determination may be made whether NSH is present in packet . If not at a determination may be made to impose a new service chain. If the determination is positive a new service chain may be imposed by inserting a new NSH in packet at . Packet may be forwarded to the next service hop in the service chain at . If the determination at is negative the packet may be directly forwarded to the next service hop or destination .

Turning back to if NSH is present in packet at appropriate services may be performed on packet . At a determination may be made whether to modify the existing service chain. If not packet may be forwarded to the next service hop at . Otherwise modifications may be applied on NSH at and packet may be forwarded to the next service hop at .

Note that in this Specification references to various features e.g. elements structures modules components steps operations characteristics etc. included in one embodiment example embodiment an embodiment another embodiment some embodiments various embodiments other embodiments alternative embodiment and the like are intended to mean that any such features are included in one or more embodiments of the present disclosure but may or may not necessarily be combined in the same embodiments. Note also that an application as used herein this Specification can be inclusive of an executable file comprising instructions that can be understood and processed on a computer and may further include library modules loaded during execution object files system files hardware logic software logic or any other executable modules. Furthermore the words optimize optimization and related terms are terms of art that refer to improvements in speed and or efficiency of a specified outcome and do not purport to indicate that a process for achieving the specified outcome has achieved or is capable of achieving an optimal or perfectly speedy perfectly efficient state.

In example implementations at least some portions of the activities outlined herein may be implemented in software in for example service node . In some embodiments one or more of these features may be implemented in hardware provided external to these elements or consolidated in any appropriate manner to achieve the intended functionality. The various network elements e.g. service node may include software or reciprocating software that can coordinate in order to achieve the operations as outlined herein. In still other embodiments these elements may include any suitable algorithms hardware software components modules interfaces or objects that facilitate the operations thereof.

Furthermore service node described and shown herein and or their associated structures may also include suitable interfaces for receiving transmitting and or otherwise communicating data or information in a network environment. Additionally some of the processors and memory elements associated with the various nodes may be removed or otherwise consolidated such that a single processor and a single memory element are responsible for certain activities. In a general sense the arrangements depicted in the FIGURES may be more logical in their representations whereas a physical architecture may include various permutations combinations and or hybrids of these elements. It is imperative to note that countless possible design configurations can be used to achieve the operational objectives outlined here. Accordingly the associated infrastructure has a myriad of substitute arrangements design choices device possibilities hardware configurations software implementations equipment options etc.

In some of example embodiments one or more memory elements e.g. memory element can store data used for the operations described herein. This includes the memory element being able to store instructions e.g. software logic code etc. in non transitory media such that the instructions are executed to carry out the activities described in this Specification. A processor can execute any type of instructions associated with the data to achieve the operations detailed herein in this Specification. In one example processors e.g. processor could transform an element or an article e.g. data from one state or thing to another state or thing. In another example the activities outlined herein may be implemented with fixed logic or programmable logic e.g. software computer instructions executed by a processor and the elements identified herein could be some type of a programmable processor programmable digital logic e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM an ASIC that includes digital logic software code electronic instructions flash memory optical disks CD ROMs DVD ROMs magnetic or optical cards other types of machine readable mediums suitable for storing electronic instructions or any suitable combination thereof.

These devices may further keep information in any suitable type of non transitory storage medium e.g. random access memory RAM read only memory ROM field programmable gate array FPGA erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM etc. software hardware or in any other suitable component device element or object where appropriate and based on particular needs. The information being tracked sent received or stored in communication system could be provided in any database register table cache queue control list or storage structure based on particular needs and implementations all of which could be referenced in any suitable timeframe. Any of the memory items discussed herein should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term memory element. Similarly any of the potential processing elements modules and machines described in this Specification should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term processor. 

It is also important to note that the operations and steps described with reference to the preceding FIGURES illustrate only some of the possible scenarios that may be executed by or within the system. Some of these operations may be deleted or removed where appropriate or these steps may be modified or changed considerably without departing from the scope of the discussed concepts. In addition the timing of these operations may be altered considerably and still achieve the results taught in this disclosure. The preceding operational flows have been offered for purposes of example and discussion. Substantial flexibility is provided by the system in that any suitable arrangements chronologies configurations and timing mechanisms may be provided without departing from the teachings of the discussed concepts.

Although the present disclosure has been described in detail with reference to particular arrangements and configurations these example configurations and arrangements may be changed significantly without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example although the present disclosure has been described with reference to particular communication exchanges involving certain network access and protocols communication system may be applicable to other exchanges or routing protocols. Moreover although communication system has been illustrated with reference to particular elements and operations that facilitate the communication process these elements and operations may be replaced by any suitable architecture or process that achieves the intended functionality of communication system .

Numerous other changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications may be ascertained to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass all such changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications as falling within the scope of the appended claims. In order to assist the United States Patent and Trademark Office USPTO and additionally any readers of any patent issued on this application in interpreting the claims appended hereto Applicant wishes to note that the Applicant a does not intend any of the appended claims to invoke paragraph six 6 of 35 U.S.C. section 112 as it exists on the date of the filing hereof unless the words means for or step for are specifically used in the particular claims and b does not intend by any statement in the specification to limit this disclosure in any way that is not otherwise reflected in the appended claims.

