---

title: Service orchestration to support a cloud-based, multi-party video conferencing service in a virtual overlay network environment
abstract: Concepts and technologies disclosed herein are directed to service orchestration to support cloud-based, multi-party video conferencing service in a virtual overlay network environment. According to one aspect of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein, a video conferencing service orchestrator can receive, from a user device, a service request for the cloud-based, multi-party video conferencing service orchestrated by the video conferencing service orchestrator. In response to the service request, the video conferencing service orchestrator can provide, to the user device, virtual network layer system software and a virtual machine container for installation on the user device. The virtual network layer system software can implement a network function to provide an interface between the user device and a service controller during a video conference. A conference image particular to the type of video conference can be installed on the virtual machine container to implement the video conference for the user device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09621853&OS=09621853&RS=09621853
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09621853
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160628
---
Today cloud based multi party video conferencing services are a new emerging technology that requires a global reach and flexibility scalability and reliability with high bandwidth low latency connections to provide high quality video experiences. The capabilities of cloud based multi party video conferencing services need to provide on demand service orchestration flexibility of managing virtualized cloud networks scaling network capacity reliability of maintaining end user performance expectation and proactively monitoring network conditions to provide high end video quality experience for users.

Concepts and technologies disclosed herein are directed to service orchestration to support a cloud based multi party video conferencing service in a virtual overlay network environment. According to one aspect of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein a video conferencing service orchestrator can receive from a user device a service request for the cloud based multi party video conferencing service orchestrated by the video conferencing service orchestrator. In response to the service request the video conferencing service orchestrator can provide to the user device virtual network layer system software and a virtual machine container for installation on the user device. The virtual network layer system software can implement a network function to provide an interface between the user device and a service controller during a video conference. A conference image can be installed on the virtual machine container to implement the video conference for the user device.

In some embodiments the video conferencing service orchestrator can receive from the user device a service request. The service request can identify a video conference type for the video conference. The video conferencing service orchestrator also can determine that the service controller is a closest service controller capable of serving the user device for the video conference. The service controller can be one of a plurality of service controllers available for selection by the video conferencing service orchestrator to service the user device for the video conference. The video conferencing service orchestrator also can forward the service request to the service controller. The service controller can provide to the user device the conference image associated with the video conference type.

In some embodiments the video conference type is a 1 1 video conference type. In this conference type there are two participants. Both participants can be speakers and listeners during the video conference.

In some embodiments the video conference type is a 1 N video conference type. In this conference type there are 1 N participants. One participant can be the speaker and N participants can be listeners.

In some embodiments the video conference type is an N N video conference type. In this conference type there N participants. Each of the N participants can be speakers and listeners during the video conference.

In some embodiments the video conferencing service orchestrator can receive from the user device a stream request. The stream request can indicate a stream type for media associated with the video conference to be streamed to the user device via a media server controlled by the service controller. The stream type can be a single media stream or a combined media stream. The single media stream can contain media associated with one participant. The combined media stream can contain media associated with multiple participants. The media server can be implemented as part of the service controller or separate from the service controller.

In some embodiments the video conferencing service orchestrator can receive a quality of experience QoE measurement in an alert alarm from the service controller. The QoE measurement is a measure of a customer s experiences. The QoE alert alarm indicates change of a quality of service QoS . QoS measures hardware and software performance resulting in a poor service for the video conference no longer being in accordance with the overall level of customer satisfaction. The auto correlation based upon network QoS condition s and video QoE indicator s can determine a root cause of the degradation of service. The optimization policy will be performed to improve the service quality for the video conference. The optimization policy can include performing QoS re assignment performing a bandwidth upgrade performing performance tuning and or configuration changes and or reducing video conferencing demand.

It should be appreciated that the above described subject matter may be implemented as a computer controlled apparatus a computer process a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer readable storage medium. These and various other features will be apparent from a reading of the following Detailed Description and a review of the associated drawings.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended that this Summary be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

Multi party video conferencing services are part of a multi trillion dollar industry in the telecommunications world. The concepts and technologies disclosed herein provide cloud based capabilities to make audio video conference calls more web and smartphone friendly. Unlike over the top video conferencing services the concepts and technologies disclosed herein can deliver the same high end video conference experiences with high definition video and audio quality but under the umbrella of a reliable and secure operator network infrastructure. This will result in customer adoption of the disclosed solution and will create a larger calling circle for current subscribers due to the flexible range of communication options provided by network operators. Implementation of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein by service providers equipment vendors and software integration vendors will allow these entities to gain a competitive advantage both from an emerging service product point of view as well as delivering best in class service for multi party video conferencing.

The concepts and technologies described herein provide an innovative and automated approach to dynamically change media server configurations and to support performance optimization management including real time traffic optimization and adaptive media quality policy in a virtual overlay network environment. The concepts and technologies disclosed herein provide high end video conference experiences to users resulting in generating new revenue for service providers. Moreover the concepts and technologies disclosed herein address challenges in on demand service orchestration flexibility of managing virtualization optimized cloud networks scalability of efficiently using network capacity reliability of maintaining end user performance expectations and proactively monitoring network QoS condition and video quality experience.

The concepts and technologies disclosed herein provide a new video conferencing service orchestration platform and advanced methodologies to support dynamic configuration design of virtual machine VM media server clusters cloud based solutions including multicast routing hardware configuration network topology and their associated bandwidth requirements in a virtual overlay network environment. The concepts and technologies disclosed herein provide robust service orchestration management to create control and facilitate multiple simultaneous live video conferencing meetings based upon service types attributes and parameters. A pre configured and pre tested a service template can be utilized for building and configuring service instances. The concepts and technologies disclosed herein also provide methodology of dynamic change of media server configuration based on user utilization patterns. The concepts and technologies disclosed herein also provide methodology of on demand site selection of service controller media server based upon real time traffic optimization policy. The concepts and technologies disclosed herein also provide a methodology of adaptive performance management of video conference stream quality based upon QoE and QoS optimization policy. The concepts and technologies disclosed herein also provide a methodology of initiating QoE alerts alarms based upon media quality of video conference client side.

The concepts and technologies disclosed herein provide several benefits to service providers. In particular the concepts and technologies disclosed herein can increase customer retention due to higher customer satisfaction and enhanced communications service increase revenue based upon increased customer lifetime value and facilitate deployment of new software controllers on existing platforms and migrate network functions to a cloud environment.

The concepts and technologies disclosed herein also provide several benefits to customers. In particular the concepts and technologies disclosed herein can enhance communications experience at relatively low costs provide easy to use video calling service that encourages quality communications with friends family and to provide innovative software clients developed by original equipment manufacturers and developer community that use the soft phone platform. Cloud based video conference service for high quality video experiences has not yet been defined in the industry. For this reason all video conference call service providers VM cloud service providers equipment vendors and telecommunications service providers can benefit from the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

While the subject matter described herein may be presented at times in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with the execution of an operating system and application programs on a computer system those skilled in the art will recognize that other implementations may be performed in combination with other types of program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures computer executable instructions and or other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the subject matter described herein may be practiced with other computer systems including hand held devices mobile devices wireless devices multiprocessor systems distributed computing systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers routers switches other computing devices described herein and the like.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals represent like elements throughout the several figures aspects of concepts and technologies for service orchestration to support a cloud based multi party video conferencing service in a virtual overlay network environment will be described.

Turning now to an illustrative network operating environment in which aspects of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein for service orchestration to support a cloud based multi party video conferencing service hereinafter video conferencing service over the web can be implemented will be described according to an embodiment. illustrates the network operating environment that includes a virtual overlay network that utilizes at least in part software defined networking SDN concepts to support aspects of the video conferencing service described herein. In particular the virtual overlay network facilitates dynamic configuration design of VM media server clusters and cloud based solutions including multicast routing hardware configuration network topology and associated bandwidth requirements. Moreover the virtual overlay network provides robust service orchestration management to create control and facilitate multiple simultaneous live video conferencing meetings based upon service types attributes and parameters. A pre configured and pre tested service template can be used for building and configuring instances of the video conferencing service. The virtual overlay network facilitates a methodology for dynamically changing media server configurations based upon user utilization patterns. The virtual overlay network also facilitates a methodology for on demand site selection of service controller media server based upon real time traffic optimization policy. The virtual overlay network also facilitates methodology for adaptive performance management of video conference stream quality based upon QoE and QoS optimization policy. The virtual overlay network also facilitates methodology for initiating QoE alerts alarms based upon media quality of video conferences client side.

The illustrated virtual overlay network is in communication with internet protocol IP transport networks A N referred to herein collectively as IP transport networks or in the singular form as IP transport network which in turn are in communication with one or more access networks A N referred to herein collectively as access networks or in the singular form as access network that serve one or more user devices A N referred to herein collectively as user devices or in the singular form as user device .

The IP transport networks can include any wireless mobile IP network capable of transporting IP data transfer associated with one or more instances of the video conferencing service described herein. The IP transport networks can include one or more wireless core networks such as for example an evolved packet core EPC a circuit switched core network CS CN a packet switched core network PS CN an IP multimedia subsystem IMS core network multiples thereof and or combinations thereof. A wireless core network can utilize one or more mobile telecommunications technologies such as but not limited to Global System for Mobile communications GSM Code Division Multiple Access CDMA ONE CDMA2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Long Term Evolution LTE Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX other 802.XX technologies e.g. 802.11 WI FI and the like. By way of example and not limitation the IP transport network can be or can include a Long Term Evolution LTE mobile wireless network such as the example LTE mobile wireless network shown in which will be described herein below in greater detail. The IP transport networks can additionally or alternatively include one or more wired fixed IP networks capable of transporting IP data transfer associated with one or more instances of the video conferencing service described herein. It should be understood however that the design of the virtual overlay network is agnostic to the underlying IP transport network and as such the examples of the IP transport network disclosed herein should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The access networks A N referred to herein collectively as access networks or in the singular form as access network can include any IP access network that provides IP connectivity to the user devices for access to the IP transport networks . Each of the user devices can be a cellular phone a feature phone a smartphone a mobile computing device a tablet computing device a portable television a portable video game console a user equipment UE or any other user device that is capable of communicating with the access network s .

In some embodiments the access networks can include one or more radio access networks RANs best shown in . A RAN can utilize various channel access methods including but not limited to Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Single Carrier FDMA SC FDMA Code Division Multiple Access CDMA wideband CDMA W CDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM Space Division Multiple Access SDMA and or the like to provide a radio air interface to the user devices . Data communications can be provided in part by General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced Data rates for Global Evolution EDGE the High Speed Packet Access HSPA protocol family including High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Enhanced Uplink EUL or otherwise termed High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA Evolved HSPA HSPA LTE and or various other current and future wireless data access technologies. Moreover a RAN may be a GSM RAN GRAN a GSM EDGE RAN GERAN a UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN an E UTRAN any combination thereof and or the like.

The illustrated network operating environment also includes SDN networks A N referred to herein collectively as SDN networks or in the singular form as SDN network . The SDN networks provide at least in part the virtual overlay network . The illustrated SDN networks each include one or more SDN network elements A N referred to herein collectively as SDN elements or in the singular form as SDN element . The SDN elements can include one or more switches routers hubs repeaters servers gateways other network elements some combination thereof and or the like.

As used herein SDN is an architectural framework for creating intelligent networks that are programmable application aware and more open than traditional networks. In accordance with the concepts and technologies disclosed herein SDN concepts are utilized to provide the virtual overlay network to support video conferencing services. Since SDN provides an agile and cost effective communications platform for handling dramatic increases in data traffic on networks by providing a high degree of scalability security and flexibility SDN is ideally suited as the architectural framework upon which to base the virtual overlay network .

SDN allows for the creation of multiple virtual network control planes on common hardware. SDN can help extend service virtualization and software control into many existing network elements. Moreover SDN enables applications to request and to manipulate services provided by the network and to allow the network to expose network states back to applications. SDN exposes network capabilities through application programming interfaces APIs making the control of network equipment remotely accessible and modifiable via third party software clients.

In some embodiments at least a portion of the SDN elements are created utilizing a network functions virtualization platform NFVP best shown in . An NFVP is a shared infrastructure that can support multiple services and network applications including non real time applications and real time applications such as the video conferencing service described herein. The NFVP can include a plurality of hardware resources including for example processing compute resources memory resources and other resources such as input output I O resources. These resources can be virtualized and managed by one or more virtual machine monitors VMMs also known as hypervisors to manage one or more virtual resources as abstractions of at least a portion of the hardware resources. These abstractions can be referred to as VMs. The VMs can execute one or more real time applications to provide at least in part the video conferencing service described herein.

The illustrated SDN networks each include one or more SDN controllers A N referred to herein collectively as SDN controllers or in the singular form as SDN controller . The SDN controllers also are referred to herein generally as service controllers . The SDN controllers can control operations of the SDN elements based upon one or more QoS policies . In accordance with the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the SDN controllers can utilize the QoS policies to dictate the treatment of video conferencing data to ensure a specified QoS is provided for a given video conference session.

In accordance with the concepts and technologies disclosed herein a mobility media offloading technique can be utilized to ensure that the video conferencing service can provide an optimal shortest path between the user devices and or one or more media servers A N referred to herein collectively as media servers or in the singular form as media server . The media servers are designed to receive store and share media such as for example audio and video associated with video conferencing sessions.

The media servers can be managed by the SDN controllers . Although the media servers are shown in the illustrated embodiment as being separate from the SDN controllers the media servers can be combined with the SDN controllers in other embodiments such as in some of the embodiments disclosed herein below.

The video conferencing service can be orchestrated by a video conferencing service orchestrator service orchestrator . The service orchestrator is capable of viewing the entirety of the virtual overlay network . The service orchestrator can include a computing system that includes one or more processors. The service orchestrator can receive a service request from a user customer associated with one of the user devices . In response to the service request the service orchestrator can coordinate instantiation of one or more VMs to process operations disclosed herein for providing the video conferencing service in accordance with a specific type of conference identified in the request. The service orchestrator also can utilize an overview of the virtual overlay network to find and assign one or more of the SDN controllers and one or more of the media servers for servicing a given conference. In accordance with embodiments the service orchestrator can select the SDN controller s and the media server s that are closest to the user devices participating in the conference. It is in this manner that the video conferencing service can provide an optimal shortest path between the user device s and the media server s .

Turning now to the network operating environment is shown with the virtual overlay network the IP transport networks the access networks the user devices the SDN networks the SDN elements the SDN controllers the policies the media servers and the service orchestrator introduced above in . In the embodiment illustrated in the IP transport networks and the access networks are implemented in accordance with LTE standards. As noted above the virtual overlay network is agnostic to the underlying IP transport network however a wireless transport network that can guarantee QoS such as LTE is a likely real world implementation of the IP transport network over which the virtual overlay network operates in accordance with the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

The illustrated network operating environment includes the user devices operating in communication with one or more radio access networks RANs A N referred to herein collectively as RANs or in the singular form as RAN . In the illustrated example the user deviceA and user deviceB are in communication with the RANA and the user deviceC and the user deviceN are in communication with the RANN.

The user devices can communicate with the RAN by way of one or more eNodeBs eNBs A N referred to herein collectively as eNBs or in the singular form as eNB . Although only a single eNB is shown as being part of each of the RANs each of the RANs can support multiple eNBs . Each of the RANs can include one or more service areas also referred to as cells having the same or different cell sizes which may be represented for example by different cell types. As used herein a cell refers to a geographical area that is served by one or more base stations such as one or more of the eNBs operating within the access network implemented for example as one of the RANs . The cells within the RANs can include the same or different cell sizes which may be represented by different cell types. A cell type can be associated with certain dimensional characteristics that define the effective radio range of a cell. Cell types can include but are not limited to a macro cell type a metro cell type a femto cell type a pico cell type a micro cell type wireless local area network WLAN cell type and a white space network cell type. Other cell types including proprietary cell types and temporary cell types also are contemplated.

Although in the illustrated example each of the user devices is shown as being in communication with one RAN that is the user deviceA and the user deviceB are in communication only with the RANA and the user deviceC and the user deviceN are in communication only with the RANN the user devices may be in communication with any number of access networks including WI FI access networks not shown and or access networks that incorporate collocated wireless wide area network WWAN WI FI and cellular technologies also not shown . Accordingly the user device can be in some embodiments dual mode devices.

The RANs can operate in accordance with one or more RAT that utilize mobile telecommunications standards such as those described herein above. By way of example and not limitation the RANs are illustrated as Evolved Universal Mobile Telecommunications System Terrestrial RANs E UTRANs for operating in accordance with Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP specifications for LTE. It should be understood that the RANs can operate in accordance with other RATs including but not limited to GSM CDMA ONE CDMA2000 UMTS WiMAX other current 3GPP cellular technologies other future 3GPP cellular technologies combinations thereof and or the like. The RANs can utilize any of the channel access methods which may or may not be used by the aforementioned standards including but not limited to TDMA FDMA CDMA W CDMA OFDM SC FDMA SDMA and the like to provide a radio air interface to the user devices . Data communications can be provided in part by the RANs using GPRS EDGE the HSPA protocol family including HSDPA EUL or otherwise termed HSUPA HSPA LTE and or various other current and future wireless data access technologies. Accordingly the RANs may be E UTRANs as illustrated or other RANs such as but not limited to GSM RANs GRANs a GSM EDGE RANs GERANs UTRANs any combination thereof and or the like. Moreover in some embodiments the RANs can be or can include one or more virtual RANs vRANs provided at least in part in accordance with SDN concepts.

Each of the RANs is shown as being in communication with an evolved packet core EPC network . In particular the RANA is shown as being in communication with an EPCA and the RANN is shown as being in communication with an EPCN referred to herein collectively as EPCs or in the singular form as EPC . The EPC networks provide core network functions in accordance with 3GPP standards specifications. The core network functions provided by each of the EPC networks can include as in the illustrated example one or more serving gateways SGWs one or more mobility management entities MMEs and one or more packet data network gateways PGWs . In particular the EPCA is shown as having an SGWA an MMEA and a PGWA. Similarly the EPCN is shown as having an SGWN an MMEN and a PGWN. These network elements are well known and therefore additional details in this regard are not provided herein.

The mobility media offloading technique described herein allows for bypassing the IP transport networks thereby improving the QoS QoE provided to end users i.e. the participants in a video conference . This is accomplished at least in part by the deployment of the SDN elements operating as SDN switches between the access network and the IP transport network . In the LTE environment shown in the SDN elements are deployed between the eNBs of the RANs and the SGWs of the EPCs .

The SDN elements can inspect traffic flowing between the RANs and the EPCs to detect traffic associated with GPRS tunneling protocol GTP tunnel set up specifically for a video conference referred to as a setup event . In response to detecting a setup event the SDN element can inform its SDN controller . The SDN controller in turn can assign the media server s to be utilized to serve media data e.g. audio and video for the video conference. Alternatively the SDN controller can inform the service orchestrator to assign the media server s for the video conference.

After the video conferences begins and a media stream begins to flow shown as media flow between the user devices involved in the video conference the SDN element can de encapsulate the GTP tunnel and can forward the media data packets to the previously assigned media server . The media data packets that are to be sent to another media server e.g. from the media server A to the media server N is demand based and controlled by the SDN controller or the service orchestrator .

Turning now to a block diagram illustrating a cloud based video conferencing service deployment in the virtual overlay network will be described according to an illustrated embodiment. The cloud based video conferencing service deployment includes the virtual overlay network introduced above in . The virtual overlay network provides a virtual network layer that includes a plurality of VM network agents A N referred to herein collectively as VM network agents or in the singular form as VM network agent . The VM network agents operate underneath a plurality of VMs A N referred to herein collectively as VMs or in the singular form as VM . The VM network agents provide communication between the VMs and the virtual network layer . The VM network agents provide network address translation between the private VM IP and the hosting server s public IP. The VM network agents can manage the interface for hosting OS IP routing. The VM network agents can manage security e.g. encryption and decryption . The VM network agents can perform routing and switching with other clients and controllers. The VM network agents can set the correct differentiated services code point DSCP marking.

In particular a VMA provides video conferencing controller functionality via the SDN controller and media server functionality via the media server a VMB includes a video conferencing service client agentA the VMC includes a video conferencing service client agentB the VMD includes a video conferencing service client agentC and the VMN includes a video conferencing service client agentN. The illustrated cloud based video conferencing service deployment also includes a plurality of users A N referred to herein collectively as users or in the singular form as user . Although four users are shown in the illustrated example it is contemplated that a video conferencing service session also referred to herein as video conference can include no less than two users also referred to herein as participants but an upper limit for the number of users is not defined herein.

The cloud based video conferencing service deployment provides several benefits over existing conferencing solutions. Virtual services are easy to maintain and to upgrade over time to accommodate service growth. The virtual overlay network benefits from rapid deployment enabled by SDN technology and can utilize open source virtual networking technologies. All service endpoints in the cloud based video conferencing service deployment do not need public routable IPs private IPs suffice. In addition security can be easily deployed maintained and upgraded as necessary for the cloud based video conferencing service deployment .

Specifics regarding the cloud based video conferencing service deployment will now be described. One of the users the userA for the remainder of this example initiates a video conference and causes a service request to be sent to the service orchestrator . In the meantime a VM corresponding to the specific type of conference is booted up that is the VMA in the illustrated example. The service orchestrator then assigns a closest controller such as the SDN controller in the illustrated example and a media server such as the media server in the illustrated example for servicing the conference. The video conferencing service client agentA and the SDN controller then establish a dedicated tunnel for controlling the video conferencing service through the appropriate VM network agents which include the VM network agentA and the VM network agentB in the illustrated example. The VM network agents can implement any networking function that is required based upon the hosting environment.

For n 1 video services a tree configuration will be set up between client and media server. For 1 1 video services controller will request a point to point configuration will be built between each two clients based. For n n services controller will instruct all involved clients to set up a bridge configuration. Virtual network client e.g. the VM network agent will be responsible for working with hosting operating system to set correct DSCP marking based upon service QoS classification.

Turning now to an example implementation for serving a high QoE cloud based video conference call over the virtual overlay network will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The illustrated implementation includes the user devices A N the virtual overlay network the service orchestrator and the media servers A N introduced above with reference to . In the example implementation the media servers A N can passively capture packets for call setup signaling and media channels. If a call setup packet with session description protocol SDP is captured the media server A N can save the real time transport control protocol RTCP port and IP information of this call update or remove such information when receiving relevant updates e.g. UPDATE re INVITE BYE CANCEL . If above RTCP traffic is captured generate alerts alarms if pre defined conditions are met.

Turning now to various configurations A C of media servers deployed within in a cloud environment for different video conferencing service types will be described according to illustrative embodiments. Each of the configurations A C includes two or more service control points SCPs embodied as the media servers for implementation of the video conferencing service. Multi party conferencing networks utilize channels of 2 where X is the number of subscribers. In order to address scalability of capacity 2 three services with difference configurations can be designed in accordance with the exemplary configurations set forth below.

Turning first to a basic service configuration A is shown for a basic service type. The basic service configuration A is one to one and utilizes a point to point topology type with bandwidth of 2 2 for a total of 4 channels between two SCPs A B. In a broadcast service configuration B is shown for a broadcast service type. The broadcast service configuration B is one to many and utilizes a tree topology type with bandwidth of 2 X for a total of 2 X channels between the SCP A the broadcasting SCP and SCPs B G the listening SCPs . In a multi party service configuration C is shown for a multi party service type. The multi party service configuration C is many to many and utilizes a bridge topology type with bandwidth of 4 X for a total of 4 X channels between the SCPs A D. In some implementations such as for distance learning scenarios a bundle service combining the broadcast service and the multi party service can be utilized. The VM media server with the capability of service orchestration management can create control and facilitate multiple simultaneous live video conferencing meetings based upon service types attributes and parameters. A pre configured and pre tested a VMS service template can be used for building and configuring. Dynamic configuration design of the media server can be based on user utilization patterns or can be pre defined by the users.

Turning now to a cloud based video conferencing orchestration architecture will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The cloud based video conferencing orchestration architecture includes the user device the service orchestrator and the SDN controller introduced above in . Although only a single user device a single service orchestrator and a single SDN controller are shown in the illustrated embodiment other embodiments can include multiples of one or more of these elements.

The illustrated embodiment of the user device includes a web browser application a video conferencing service application a VM container and virtual network layer system software . The user device can execute the web browser application the video conferencing service application the VM container and the virtual network layer system software via one or more processing components such as for example the processor best shown in .

The web browser application allows users to access web portals link pages web sites and or other information available on the World Wide Web. According to embodiments a user can access the service orchestrator via the web browser application . Alternatively in other embodiments a user can access the service orchestrator via the video conferencing service application . The video conferencing service application can be a native application that is installed on the user device and provides access to the service orchestrator . In some embodiments the video conferencing service application provides access to the same or similar resources as the web browser application via a native interface facilitated at least in part by an operating system best shown in of the user device instead of a web interface provided via the web browser application .

The virtual network layer system software can include the VM network agent introduced in . The virtual network layer system software can implement any networking function that the user device needs based upon the hosting environment. Some example networking functions include but are not limited to virtual routers virtual switches and or other virtual network applications. In case of a LINUX system for example a vSwitch interface can be implemented between virtual services and LINUX IP networking.

A user can sign up for the video conferencing service through the web browser application or the video conferencing service application . In either case a customer sign up request generally shown at can be generated and sent to the video conferencing service orchestrator . After the user signs up for the video conferencing service the service orchestrator provides generally shown at the virtual network layer system software to the user device and the user device installs the virtual network layer system software .

After the virtual network layer system software is installed on the user device a service request generally shown at can be generated and sent to the service orchestrator . The service request can instruct the service orchestrator to set up a specific type of video conference.

The type of video conference can be a 1 1 video conference wherein the SDN controller creates a point to point configuration best shown in between each client participating in the 1 1 video conference. The type of video conference can be a 1 N video conference wherein the SDN controller creates a tree configuration best shown in between the client participating in the video conference as the speaker and N media servers associated with N clients participating in the video conference as listeners. The type of video conference can be an N N video conference wherein the SDN controller instructs all N participating clients to set up a bridge configuration best shown in between the N clients participating in the video conference as speakers listeners i.e. everyone can speak .

The service orchestrator forwards generally shown at the service request to the closest service controller which in the illustrated example is the SDN controller . Although only one service controller the SDN controller is shown in real world implementations likely will have multiple service controllers. The service orchestrator can determine which SDN controller is closest to the user device and forward the service request to that SDN controller .

The SDN controller receives the service request from the service orchestrator and in response selects from a set of available images A C in an image inventory an image matching the service identified in the service request. The available images A C can be a special type of virtual application that is used to create a virtual machine with a cloud deployment. In the illustrated example the SDN controller can store in the image inventory a 1 1 conference image A a 1 N conference image B and an N N conference image C corresponding to the 1 1 video conference service the 1 N video conference service and the N N video conference service respectively. The SDN controller then provides the appropriate image to the user device for installation in the VM container . The image s installed in the VM container are illustrated as installed image s . The user device is then set up for the video conference service s provided by the installed image s . After the setup process described above the selected video conference service can be instantiated and media e.g. audio and video associated with the video conference can be presented via the VM container .

Turning now to a block diagram illustrating a service controller implementation of an illustrative service controller function capable of implementing aspects of the concept and technologies disclosed herein will be described. The illustrated service controller implementation includes a plurality of host operating systems host OS A N referred to herein collectively as hosts OSs or in the singular form host OS the VM network agents see the video conferencing service client agents see and the SDN controller .

The VM network agents provide all service functions. The VM network agents are responsible for virtual overlay network traffic routing and forwarding. The VM network agents provide the interface between the virtual overlay network shown in the illustrated example by the dashed line in private network address space and the underlying IP transport network s . The VM network agents are agnostic to the underlying IP transport network s .

The virtual overlay network uses tunneling e.g. GPE IP SEC MPLS and or the like built on top of the IP transport network s . The IP transport IP network s provides physical traffic transportation for all control and data traffic. The specific choice of tunneling technology is based upon the type s of the underlying IP transport network s . The SDN controller provides all network and service control functions.

The SDN controller waits for client initial service requests. Upon receiving a service request the SDN controller initiates an authentication authorization and accounting AAA type authentication process with the requesting one of the video conferencing service client agents . Once the authentication is finished the SDN controller instructs the video conferencing service client agent to download the VM image or application for the requested service. The SDN controller is also responsible for dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP for the virtual overlay network and maintaining the network topology. The SDN controller also instructs the video conferencing service client agent to setup and tear down media tunnels between client and media server. When providing 1 N or N N media service the SDN controller is responsible for forwarding media to multiple recipients.

Turning now to a 1 1 video conferencing service implementation will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The 1 1 video conferencing service implementation can utilize the basic service configuration A for a basic service type shown in . The 1 1 video conferencing service implementation includes a first video conferencing client video conferencing clientA a second video conferencing client video conferencing clientB the SDN controller and the IP transport network . The video conferencing clients A B can include the user devices executing the video conferencing service application shown in .

In the 1 1 video conferencing service implementation the video conferencing clientA serves as the initiating client for a video conference. The video conferencing clientA can send a request generally shown at to the SDN controller to initiate a 1 1 video conference with another client that is the video conferencing clientB in the illustrated example. The SDN controller in turn can forward the request generally shown at to the video conferencing clientB. The video conferencing clientB can then initiate communication generally shown at with the video conferencing clientA. Two media channels and two control channels are then established between the video conferencing clients A B. One media channel and one control channel are established for each direction of communication.

Turning now to a 1 N video conferencing service implementation will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The 1 N video conferencing service implementation can utilize the broadcast service configuration B for a broadcast service type shown in . The 1 N video conferencing service implementation includes the first video conferencing client video conferencing clientA the second video conferencing client video conferencing clientB a third video conferencing client video conferencing clientC the SDN controller and the IP transport network .

In the 1 N video conferencing service implementation the video conferencing clientA serves as the initiating client for a video conference and is associated with the sole speaker in the video conference. The video conferencing clientB and the video conferencing clientC are both associated with listeners in the video conference i.e. N 2 in the illustrated example . Although only two listeners are illustrated any number i.e. N listeners are contemplated in the 1 N video conferencing service implementation . The video conferencing clientA can send a request generally shown at to the SDN controller to initiate a 1 N video conference with N listeners the video conferencing clientB and the video conferencing clientC in the illustrated example. The SDN controller authenticates the video conferencing clientA and establishes two media channels and two control channels between the video conferencing clientA and the SDN controller to provide audio and video media associated with the speaker to the media server s utilized in the video conference.

The video conferencing clientB and the video conferencing clientC i.e. the listeners can then send join conference requests generally shown at and respectively to the SDN controller . The SDN controller in turn authenticates the video conferencing clientB and the video conferencing clientC establishes a media channel and a control channel between the video conferencing clientB and the SDN controller and establishes a media channel and a control channel between the video conferencing clientC and the media server of the SDN controller . After media is received from the video conferencing clientA i.e. the speaker by the media server the media server then streams the media to the video conferencing clientB and the video conferencing clientC i.e. the listeners .

Turning now to an N N video conferencing service implementation will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The N N video conferencing service implementation includes the first video conferencing client video conferencing clientA the second video conferencing client video conferencing clientB the third video conferencing client video conferencing clientC the SDN controller and the IP transport network .

In the N N video conferencing service implementation the video conferencing clientA serves as the initiating client in the video conference. The video conferencing clientA the video conferencing clientB and the video conferencing clientC are all speakers. As such the N N video conferencing service implementation is similar to the 1 N video conferencing service implementation described above with reference to except every client requires two media channels and two control channels for downlink and uplink media flow.

The video conferencing clientA can send a request generally shown at to the SDN controller to initiate an N N video conference with N listeners and N speakers. The SDN controller authenticates the video conferencing clientA and establishes two media channels and two control channels between the video conferencing clientA and the SDN controller to provide audio and video media associated with the speaker to the media server of the SDN controller .

The video conferencing clientB and the video conferencing clientC i.e. the other speakers listeners can then send join conference requests generally shown at and respectively to the SDN controller . The SDN controller in turn authenticates the video conferencing clientB and the video conferencing clientC establishes two media channels and two control channel between the video conferencing clientB and the media server of the SDN controller and establishes two media channels and two control channels between the video conferencing clientC and the media server of the SDN controller . After media is received from a speaker by the media server the media server streams the media to all listeners.

Turning now to a video conferencing service topology will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The video conferencing service topology includes a central topology server operating in communication with service controllers media servers A B. The central topology server can be implemented in the service orchestrator .

The service controllers media servers A B serve media associated with video conferences to a plurality of customers A F. The service controllers media servers A B can be in the same entity such as in the illustrated example or can be different entities as discussed in accordance with other examples disclosed herein such as the SDN controllers and the media servers .

Utilizing the concepts and technologies disclosed herein a large amount of data is transmitted whether for service controller to provide service images to user devices or a media server to stream media to one or more clients participating as listeners. As such each of the service controller media servers A B can only serve a limited number of customers conferences for a specific region. The service controller media server A B for a conference is selected based upon its proximity to the customers who joined the conference.

Each of the service controller media servers A B only sees a small part of the virtual overlay network . Each of the service controller media servers A B can generate real time transport control protocol RTCP statistics for each media stream it serves and can forward the RTCP statistics to the central topology server . The central topology server in view of the whole network can know which of the service controller media servers A B is in the optimal path for a given conference i.e. for 1 N and N N video conference types . If one or more additional customers join a conference and the initial service controller media server A B selected by the central topology server at the beginning of the conference is no longer in the optimal path the central topology server can switch to a different service controller media server A B that is in the optimal path that includes the added customer s . An example in which an N N type video conference is setup will now be described. In this example the central topology server can select the service controller media serverA to serve the new video conference in which the customerA and the customerB are participants. The central topology server can use various optimal path algorithms for best media server selection e.g. shortest distance lowest cost or shortest delay . A formula such as the following example formula can be used to determine the best path. Best Path with lowest value of 1 Link Cost 2 Link Utilization 3 Delay. s are configurable parameters defined specifically by each service providers. Round trip delay of each RTCP session s RTCP stats can be utilized by the central topology server to estimate overall conference delay and a new media server such as the service controller media serverB can be selected based upon this criteria. After additional customers such as the customers C F join the conference the central topology server can decide to switch from the service controller media serverA to the service controller media serverB for the conference to lower overall round trip delay.

Turning now to a conference media streaming mode selection implementation will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. For an N N conference media from every participant is sent to the media server . For audio the media server can combine all audio streams into a single media stream . For video the media server can keep each original video stream. The media server also can lower the resolution for every stream and combine all streams into a combined media stream . The media server provides two different media streaming modes that can be selected by each participant 1 a single media streaming mode in which a selected one of a plurality of individual participant streams is selected and provided to the user device via the single media stream 2 a combined media streaming mode in which all available participant streams are combined in the combined media stream .

The media can be presented to the user in accordance with the media streaming mode selected by a user. For example a conference window can be presented in which the video stream for each of the participants is shown in a smaller window. This is an example of presenting the combined media stream . Upon selection of one of the smaller windows the media server can switch to a higher resolution stream of the selected participant and the conference window can present the higher resolution stream.

In the illustrated example the user device generates a stream request generally shown at indicating whether the single media stream or the combined media stream is requested. As mentioned in the example above the single media stream can be selected in response to the user selecting a smaller window from a plurality of smaller windows each presenting a video stream of one of the participants in the conference. The user can exit the window presenting the single media stream and return to the window presenting the combined media stream thereby indicating a selection of the combined media stream option. Other user interfaces for selecting a single media stream option or a combined media stream option are contemplated.

The user device sends the stream request to the service orchestrator . The service orchestrator in turn instructs generally shown at the media server to stream media based upon the stream request . The media server then streams the media to the user device in accordance with the stream request . Subsequently the user device can generate and send a further stream request generally shown at to change from the combined media stream to the single media stream or vice versa. The service orchestrator in turn instructs generally shown at the media server to stream media based upon the further stream request .

Turning now to aspects of a method for providing a cloud based video conferencing service will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. It should be understood that the operations of the methods disclosed herein are not necessarily presented in any particular order and that performance of some or all of the operations in an alternative order s is possible and is contemplated. The operations have been presented in the demonstrated order for ease of description and illustration. Operations may be added omitted and or performed simultaneously without departing from the scope of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

It also should be understood that the methods disclosed herein can be ended at any time and need not be performed in its entirety. Some or all operations of the methods and or substantially equivalent operations can be performed by execution of computer readable instructions included on a computer storage media as defined herein. The term computer readable instructions and variants thereof as used herein is used expansively to include routines applications application modules program modules programs components data structures algorithms and the like. Computer readable instructions can be implemented on various system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor systems minicomputers mainframe computers personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based programmable consumer electronics combinations thereof and the like.

Thus it should be appreciated that the logical operations described herein are implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing system. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as states operations structural devices acts or modules. These states operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof. As used herein the phrase cause a processor to perform operations and variants thereof is used to refer to causing one or more processors disclosed herein to perform operations.

For purposes of illustrating and describing some of the concepts of the present disclosure the method is described as being performed at least in part by one of the processors via execution of one or more software modules. It should be understood that additional and or alternative devices and or network nodes can provide the functionality described herein via execution of one or more modules applications and or other software. Thus the illustrated embodiments are illustrative and should not be viewed as being limiting in any way.

The method will be described with reference to and further reference to . The method begins at operation where a customer e.g. one of the customers sends via his or her user device a request e.g. the request or to the service orchestrator to initiate a video conference. The request identifies the type of conference that is 1 1 1 N or N N . From operation the method proceeds to operation where a VM corresponding to the specific type of conference requested is booted up. If the user device is a smartphone the client application can be either a process running on its native OS or using a hypervisor to launch a VM.

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the service orchestrator assigns the closest service controller and media server for the video conference based upon for example various optimal path algorithms for best media server selection e.g. shortest distance lowest cost or shortest delay . From operation the method proceeds to operation where the client e.g. A and the selected service controller e.g. establish a dedicated GTP tunnel for service controlling via the respective VM network agents . From operation the method proceeds to operation where the method ends.

Turning now to a method for handling media flow associated with a video conference will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The method will be described with reference to and further reference to . The method begins and proceeds to operation where an SDN switch e.g. the SDN element is instantiated between the eNB and the SGW . From operation the method proceeds to operation where the SDN switch inspects traffic between the eNB and the SGW for GTP tunnel set up events corresponding to a video conference setup. GTP tunnels are built between client virtual switch and service gateway. Private IPs are used by service end points. Client virtual switch and service gateways are responsible for packaging and unpackaging media packets and tunneling them through GTP tunnels.

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the SDN switch determines if a GTP tunnel has been set up for a video conference. If not the method returns to operation . If however the SDN switch determines that a GTP tunnel has been set up for a video conference the method proceeds to operation where the SDN switch informs the SDN controller of the video conference setup event.

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the SDN controller sets up one or more of the media servers to be involved in the video conference. Alternatively the SDN controller can instruct the service orchestrator to set up the media server s . From operation the method proceeds to operation where after the media stream starts to flow from each participant in the video conference the SDN switch de encapsulates the media stream data in the GTP tunnel and forwards the media stream data to the media server s . From operation the method proceeds to operation where the method ends.

Turning now to a method for setting up a user device e.g. the user device for a video conferencing service will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The method will be described with reference to and further reference to . The method begins and proceeds to operation where the user device generates and sends a customer sign up request e.g. to the service orchestrator . From operation the method proceeds to operation where the service orchestrator in response to the customer service request provides the virtual network layer system software and the VM container to the user device . From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user device installs the virtual network layer system software and the VM container .

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user device generates and sends a service request e.g. to the service orchestrator . From operation the method proceeds to operation where the service orchestrator in response to the service request forwards the service request to the closest service controller e.g. the SDN controller in the example shown in . From operation the method proceeds to operation where the SDN controller in response to the service request provides to the user device a pre configured service image e.g. one of the conference images for the conferencing service type identified in the service request . From operation the method proceeds to operation where the method ends.

Turning now to a method for establishing a 1 1 video conference will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The method will be described with reference to and further reference to . The method begins and proceeds to operation where the first video conferencing client A generates and sends a 1 1 conferencing service request e.g. to the SDN controller to initiate a 1 1 video conference with the second video conferencing client B. From operation the method proceeds to operation where the service controller authenticates the first video conferencing client A and forwards the request e.g. to the second video conferencing client B. The authentication can utilize authentication credentials such as username and password. From operation the method proceeds to operation where the second video conferencing client B receives the forwarded request and in response initiates communication with the first video conferencing client A. From operation the method proceeds to operation where two media channels and two control channels are established between the clients one media and one control channel for each direction of media flow. From operation the method proceeds to operation where the method ends.

Turning now to a method for establishing a 1 N video conference will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The method will be described with reference to and further reference to . The method begins and proceeds to operation where the first video conferencing client A generates and sends a 1 N conferencing service request e.g. to the SDN controller to initiate a 1 N video conference. The participants in the 1 N video conferencing include a first user who is to participate in the 1 N video conference as the sole speaker and N other users who are to participate in the 1 N video conference as listeners.

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the SDN controller authenticates the first video conferencing client A and establishes media and control channels between the first video conferencing client A and the media server . From operation the method proceeds to operation where N video conferencing clients i.e. clients associated with the listeners generate and send join conference requests e.g. to the SDN controller . In response the SDN controller at operation authenticates the N video conferencing clients.

From operation the method proceeds to operation where two media channels and two control channels are established between the first video conferencing client A and each of the N listeners video conferencing clients B C. One media channel and one control channel are established for each direction of communication. From operation the method proceeds to operation where the method ends.

Turning now to a method for establishing an N N video conference will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The method will be described with reference to and further reference to . The method begins and proceeds to operation where the first video conferencing client A generates and sends an N N conferencing service request e.g. to the SDN controller to initiate an N N video conference. The participants in the N N video conferencing include N speakers and N listeners.

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the SDN controller authenticates the first video conferencing client A and establishes media and control channels between the first video conferencing client A and the media server . From operation the method proceeds to operation where N video conferencing clients e.g. B C generate and send join conference requests e.g. to the SDN controller . From operation the method proceeds to operation where the SDN controller authenticates the N video conferencing clients e.g. B C and establishes media and control channels between N video conferencing clients e.g. B C and the media server .

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the media server receives media from a video conferencing client participating as a speaker at this point in time . From operation the method proceeds to operation where the media server streams the media to N video conferencing client participating as listeners. From operation the method proceeds to operation where the method ends.

Turning now to a method for streaming media associated with a video conference will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The method will be described with reference to and further reference to . The method begins and proceeds to operation where the video conferencing client generates and sends a stream request e.g. to the service orchestrator . The stream request indicates a stream type that is either the single media stream or the combined media stream . The service orchestrator also can forward the stream request to the SDN controller handling the video conference.

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the SDN controller instructs the media server to stream media associated with the video conference to the video conferencing client in accordance with the stream type identified in the stream request. From operation the method proceeds to operation where the media server streams the media associated with the video conference to the video conferencing client in accordance with the stream type identified in the stream request.

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the SDN controller determines whether a new stream request e.g. has been received. If not the method returns to operation where the media server continues to stream the media to the video conferencing client in accordance with the stream request received at operation . If however the SDN controller receives a new stream request the method proceeds to operation where the SDN controller instructs the media server to stream media associated with the video conference to the video conferencing client in accordance with the stream type identified in the new stream request. From operation the method proceeds to operation where the media server streams the media to the video conferencing client in accordance with the new stream request. From operation the method proceeds to operation where the method ends.

Turning now to a method for optimizing QoS during video conference will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The method begins and proceeds to operation where the service orchestrator receives one or more QoS alerts alarms and or one or more QoE alerts alarms from the SDN controller currently servicing the video conference. These alerts alarms can include media quality alerts alarms end to end delay frame loss rate video freeze duration and the like. The QoS alarms can be generated by the SDN controller in response to QoS currently being provided for the video conference falling outside of QoS parameters established in the QoS policies .

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the service orchestrator performs auto correlation operations to determine the root cause of the QoS change. From operation the method proceeds to operation where the service orchestrator determines if the root cause of the QoS change is due to IP transport network impairment including for example transmission delay packet loss insufficient network bandwidth and or the like. If not the method proceeds to operation where the service orchestrator determines if the root cause of the QoS change is due to mobile network impairment including for example path loss noise fading overload and or the like. If not the method proceeds to operation where the service orchestrator determines if the root cause of the QoS change is due to media server impairment including for example insufficient bandwidth utilization and response time over threshold values process alerts alarms and or the like. If not the method proceeds to operation where the service orchestrator provides an auto notification to a network operations center. From operation the method proceeds to operation where the method ends.

Returning to operation if the service orchestrator determines that the root cause of the QoS change is due to IP network impairment the method moves to operation which is shown in . Turning now to and particularly to operation the service orchestrator performs QoS re assignment. From operation the method proceeds to operation where the service orchestrator determines whether any improvement was made. If so the method returns to and particularly to operation where the method ends. If however no improvement was made or if the improvement was less than a pre specified minimum threshold of improvement then the method proceeds to operation where the service orchestrator performs a bandwidth upgrade.

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the service orchestrator determines whether any improvement was made. If so the method returns to and particularly to operation where the method ends. If however no improvement was made or if the improvement was less than a pre specified minimum threshold of improvement then the method proceeds to operation where the service orchestrator reduces video conferencing demand to that a limited number of calls can occur simultaneously across each channel.

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the service orchestrator determines whether any improvement was made. If so the method returns to and particularly to operation where the method ends. If however no improvement was made or if the improvement was less than a pre specified minimum threshold of improvement then the method returns to and particularly to operation where the service orchestrator provides an auto notification to a network operations center. From operation the method proceeds to operation where the method ends.

Returning to operation if the service orchestrator determines that the root cause of the QoS change is due to mobile network impairment the method moves to operation which is shown in . The method continues as described above.

Returning to operation if the service orchestrator determines that the root cause of the QoS change is due to media server impairment the method moves to operation which is shown in . At operation the service orchestrator performs performance tuning and or configuration changes. From operation the method proceeds to operation . The method continues as described above.

Turning now to is a block diagram illustrating a computer system configured to provide the functionality in accordance with various embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein. The systems devices and other components disclosed herein can utilize at least in part an architecture that is the same as or at least similar to the architecture of the computer system . For example the user devices the eNBs the SGWs the MMEs the PGWs other elements of the EPCs the service orchestrator the SDN controller the SDN elements the media servers or some combination thereof can utilize at least in part an architecture that is the same as or at least similar to the architecture of the computer system . It should be understood however that modification to the architecture may be made to facilitate certain interactions among elements described herein.

The computer system includes a processing unit a memory one or more user interface devices one or more I O devices and one or more network devices each of which is operatively connected to a system bus . The bus enables bi directional communication between the processing unit the memory the user interface devices the I O devices and the network devices .

The processing unit may be a standard central processor that performs arithmetic and logical operations a more specific purpose programmable logic controller PLC a programmable gate array or other type of processor known to those skilled in the art and suitable for controlling the operation of the server computer. Processing units are generally known and therefore are not described in further detail herein.

The memory communicates with the processing unit via the system bus . In some embodiments the memory is operatively connected to a memory controller not shown that enables communication with the processing unit via the system bus . The illustrated memory includes an operating system and one or more program modules . The operating system can include but is not limited to members of the WINDOWS WINDOWS CE and or WINDOWS MOBILE families of operating systems from MICROSOFT CORPORATION the LINUX family of operating systems the SYMBIAN family of operating systems from SYMBIAN LIMITED the BREW family of operating systems from QUALCOMM CORPORATION the MAC OS OS X and or iOS families of operating systems from APPLE CORPORATION the FREEBSD family of operating systems the SOLARIS family of operating systems from ORACLE CORPORATION other operating systems and the like.

The program modules may include various software and or program modules to perform the various operations described herein. The program modules and or other programs can be embodied in computer readable media containing instructions that when executed by the processing unit perform various operations such as those described herein. According to embodiments the program modules may be embodied in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof.

By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may include any available computer storage media or communication media that can be accessed by the computer system . Communication media includes computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics changed or set in a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM Erasable Programmable ROM EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer system . In the claims the phrase computer storage medium and variations thereof does not include waves or signals per se and or communication media.

The user interface devices may include one or more devices with which a user accesses the computer system . The user interface devices may include but are not limited to computers servers personal digital assistant PDAs cellular phones or any suitable computing devices. The I O devices enable a user to interface with the program modules . In one embodiment the I O devices are operatively connected to an I O controller not shown that enables communication with the processing unit via the system bus . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as but not limited to a keyboard a mouse or an electronic stylus. Further the I O devices may include one or more output devices such as but not limited to a display screen or a printer. In some embodiments the I O devices can be used for manual controls for operations to exercise under certain emergency situations.

The network devices enable the computer system to communicate with other networks or remote systems via a network . Examples of the network devices include but are not limited to a modem a radio frequency RF or infrared IR transceiver a telephonic interface a bridge a router or a network card. The network may be or may include a wireless network such as but not limited to a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN a Wireless Personal Area Network WPAN such as provided via BLUETOOTH technology a Wireless Metropolitan Area Network WMAN such as a WiMAX network or metropolitan cellular network. Alternatively the network may be or may include a wired network such as but not limited to a Wide Area Network WAN a wired Personal Area Network PAN or a wired Metropolitan Area Network MAN . The network can be or can include the virtual overlay network the IP transport network or any other network or combination of networks described herein.

Turning now to an illustrative mobile device and components thereof will be described. In some embodiments one or more of the user devices can be configured like the mobile device . While connections are not shown between the various components illustrated in it should be understood that some none or all of the components illustrated in can be configured to interact with one other to carry out various device functions. In some embodiments the components are arranged so as to communicate via one or more busses not shown . Thus it should be understood that and the following description are intended to provide a general understanding of a suitable environment in which various aspects of embodiments can be implemented and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

As illustrated in the mobile device can include a display for displaying data. According to various embodiments the display can be configured to display various graphical user interface GUI elements text images video virtual keypads and or keyboards messaging data notification messages metadata internet content device status time date calendar data device preferences map and location data combinations thereof and or the like. The mobile device also can include a processor and a memory or other data storage device memory . The processor can be configured to process data and or can execute computer executable instructions stored in the memory . The computer executable instructions executed by the processor can include for example an operating system one or more applications other computer executable instructions stored in a memory or the like. In some embodiments the applications also can include a user interface UI application not illustrated in .

The UI application can interface with the operating system to facilitate user interaction with functionality and or data stored at the mobile device and or stored elsewhere. In some embodiments the operating system can include a member of the SYMBIAN OS family of operating systems from SYMBIAN LIMITED a member of the WINDOWS MOBILE OS and or WINDOWS PHONE OS families of operating systems from MICROSOFT CORPORATION a member of the PALM WEBOS family of operating systems from HEWLETT PACKARD CORPORATION a member of the BLACKBERRY OS family of operating systems from RESEARCH IN MOTION LIMITED a member of the IOS family of operating systems from APPLE INC. a member of the ANDROID OS family of operating systems from GOOGLE INC. and or other operating systems. These operating systems are merely illustrative of some contemplated operating systems that may be used in accordance with various embodiments of the concepts and technologies described herein and therefore should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The UI application can be executed by the processor to aid a user in viewing conference media entering content viewing account information answering initiating calls entering deleting data entering and setting user IDs and passwords for device access configuring settings manipulating address book content and or settings multimode interaction interacting with other applications and otherwise facilitating user interaction with the operating system the applications and or other types or instances of data that can be stored at the mobile device .

The applications can include the web browser application the video conferencing service application the VM container and the virtual network layer system software . According to various embodiments the applications can include for example presence applications visual voice mail applications messaging applications text to speech and speech to text applications add ons plug ins email applications music applications video applications camera applications location based service applications power conservation applications game applications productivity applications entertainment applications enterprise applications combinations thereof and the like. The data can include for example the media one or more identifiers and or other applications or program modules.

The applications the data and or portions thereof can be stored in the memory and or in a firmware and can be executed by the processor . The firmware also can store code for execution during device power up and power down operations. It can be appreciated that the firmware can be stored in a volatile or non volatile data storage device including but not limited to the memory and or a portion thereof.

The mobile device also can include an input output I O interface . The I O interface can be configured to support the input output of data such as location information user information organization information presence status information user IDs passwords and application initiation start up requests. In some embodiments the I O interface can include a hardwire connection such as universal serial bus USB port a mini USB port a micro USB port an audio jack a PS2 port an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1394 FIREWIRE port a serial port a parallel port an Ethernet RJ45 port an RJ10 port a proprietary port combinations thereof or the like. In some embodiments the mobile device can be configured to synchronize with another device to transfer content to and or from the mobile device . In some embodiments the mobile device can be configured to receive updates to one or more of the applications via the I O interface though this is not necessarily the case. In some embodiments the I O interface accepts I O devices such as keyboards keypads mice interface tethers printers plotters external storage touch multi touch screens touch pads trackballs joysticks microphones remote control devices displays projectors medical equipment e.g. stethoscopes heart monitors and other health metric monitors modems routers external power sources docking stations combinations thereof and the like. It should be appreciated that the I O interface may be used for communications between the mobile device and a network device or local device.

The mobile device also can include a communications component . The communications component can be configured to interface with the processor to facilitate wired and or wireless communications with one or more networks such as one or more IP access networks and or one or more circuit access networks. In some embodiments other networks include networks that utilize non cellular wireless technologies such as WI FI or WIMAX. In some embodiments the communications component includes a multimode communications subsystem for facilitating communications via the cellular network and one or more other networks.

The communications component in some embodiments includes one or more transceivers. The one or more transceivers if included can be configured to communicate over the same and or different wireless technology standards with respect to one another. For example in some embodiments one or more of the transceivers of the communications component may be configured to communicate using GSM CDMA ONE CDMA2000 LTE and various other 2G 2.5G 3G 4G and greater generation technology standards. Moreover the communications component may facilitate communications over various channel access methods which may or may not be used by the aforementioned standards including but not limited to Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Wideband CDMA W CDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM Space Division Multiple Access SDMA and the like.

In addition the communications component may facilitate data communications using Generic Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE the High Speed Packet Access HSPA protocol family including High Speed Download Packet Access HSDPA Enhanced Uplink EUL or otherwise termed High Speed Upload Packet Access HSUPA HSPA and various other current and future wireless data access standards. In the illustrated embodiment the communications component can include a first transceiver TxRx A that can operate in a first communications mode e.g. GSM . The communications component also can include an Ntransceiver TxRx N that can operate in a second communications mode relative to the first transceiver A e.g. UMTS . While two transceivers A N hereinafter collectively and or generically referred to as transceivers are shown in it should be appreciated that less than two two and or more than two transceivers can be included in the communications component .

The communications component also can include an alternative transceiver Alt TxRx for supporting other types and or standards of communications. According to various contemplated embodiments the alternative transceiver can communicate using various communications technologies such as for example WI FI WIMAX BLUETOOTH infrared infrared data association IRDA near field communications NFC ZIGBEE other radio frequency RF technologies combinations thereof and the like.

In some embodiments the communications component also can facilitate reception from terrestrial radio networks digital satellite radio networks internet based radio service networks combinations thereof and the like. The communications component can process data from a network such as the Internet an intranet a broadband network a WI FI hotspot an Internet service provider ISP a digital subscriber line DSL provider a broadband provider combinations thereof or the like.

The mobile device also can include one or more sensors . The sensors can include temperature sensors light sensors air quality sensors movement sensors orientation sensors noise sensors proximity sensors or the like. As such it should be understood that the sensors can include but are not limited to accelerometers magnetometers gyroscopes infrared sensors noise sensors microphones combinations thereof or the like. Additionally audio capabilities for the mobile device may be provided by an audio I O component . The audio I O component of the mobile device can include one or more speakers for the output of audio signals one or more microphones for the collection and or input of audio signals and or other audio input and or output devices.

The illustrated mobile device also can include a subscriber identity module SIM system . The SIM system can include a universal SIM USIM a universal integrated circuit card UICC and or other identity devices. The SIM system can include and or can be connected to or inserted into an interface such as a slot interface . In some embodiments the slot interface can be configured to accept insertion of other identity cards or modules for accessing various types of networks. Additionally or alternatively the slot interface can be configured to accept multiple subscriber identity cards. Because other devices and or modules for identifying users and or the mobile device are contemplated it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The mobile device also can include an image capture and processing system image system . The image system can be configured to capture or otherwise obtain photos videos and or other visual information. As such the image system can include cameras lenses charge coupled devices CCDs combinations thereof or the like. The mobile device may also include a video system . The video system can be configured to capture process record modify and or store video content. Photos and videos obtained using the image system and the video system respectively may be added as message content to a multimedia message service MMS message email message and sent to another mobile device. The video and or photo content also can be shared with other devices via various types of data transfers via wired and or wireless communication devices as described herein.

The mobile device also can include one or more location components . The location components can be configured to send and or receive signals to determine a geographic location of the mobile device . According to various embodiments the location components can send and or receive signals from global positioning system GPS devices assisted GPS A GPS devices WI FI WIMAX and or cellular network triangulation data combinations thereof and the like. The location component also can be configured to communicate with the communications component to retrieve triangulation data for determining a location of the mobile device . In some embodiments the location component can interface with cellular network nodes telephone lines satellites location transmitters and or beacons wireless network transmitters and receivers combinations thereof and the like. In some embodiments the location component can include and or can communicate with one or more of the sensors such as a compass an accelerometer and or a gyroscope to determine the orientation of the mobile device . Using the location component the mobile device can generate and or receive data to identify its geographic location or to transmit data used by other devices to determine the location of the mobile device . The location component may include multiple components for determining the location and or orientation of the mobile device .

The illustrated mobile device also can include a power source . The power source can include one or more batteries power supplies power cells and or other power subsystems including alternating current AC and or direct current DC power devices. The power source also can interface with an external power system or charging equipment via a power I O component . Because the mobile device can include additional and or alternative components the above embodiment should be understood as being illustrative of one possible operating environment for various embodiments of the concepts and technologies described herein. The described embodiment of the mobile device is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Turning now to a network functions virtualization platform NFVP will be described according to an exemplary embodiment. The architecture of the NFVP can be utilized to implement various elements disclosed herein. For example the NFVP can utilized to implement the SDN elements the SDN service controllers the service orchestrator the SGWs the MMEs the PGWs the media servers other elements disclosed herein or some combination thereof.

The NFVP is a shared infrastructure that can support multiple services and network applications. The illustrated NFVP includes a hardware resource layer a virtualization control layer and a virtual resource layer that work together to perform operations as will be described in detail herein.

The hardware resource layer provides hardware resources which in the illustrated embodiment include one or more compute resources one or more memory resources and one or more other resources . The compute resource s can include one or more hardware components that perform computations to process data and or to execute computer executable instructions of one or more application programs operating systems and or other software. The compute resources can include one or more central processing units CPUs configured with one or more processing cores. The compute resources can include one or more graphics processing unit GPU configured to accelerate operations performed by one or more CPUs and or to perform computations to process data and or to execute computer executable instructions of one or more application programs operating systems and or other software that may or may not include instructions particular to graphics computations. In some embodiments the compute resources can include one or more discrete GPUs. In some other embodiments the compute resources can include CPU and GPU components that are configured in accordance with a co processing CPU GPU computing model wherein the sequential part of an application executes on the CPU and the computationally intensive part is accelerated by the GPU. The compute resources can include one or more system on chip SoC components along with one or more other components including for example one or more of the memory resources and or one or more of the other resources . In some embodiments the compute resources can be or can include one or more SNAPDRAGON SoCs available from QUALCOMM of San Diego Calif. one or more TEGRA SoCs available from NVIDIA of Santa Clara Calif. one or more HUMMINGBIRD SoCs available from SAMSUNG of Seoul South Korea one or more Open Multimedia Application Platform OMAP SoCs available from TEXAS INSTRUMENTS of Dallas Tex. one or more customized versions of any of the above SoCs and or one or more proprietary SoCs. The compute resources can be or can include one or more hardware components architected in accordance with an advanced reduced instruction set computing RISC ARM architecture available for license from ARM HOLDINGS of Cambridge United Kingdom. Alternatively the compute resources can be or can include one or more hardware components architected in accordance with an x86 architecture such an architecture available from INTEL CORPORATION of Mountain View Calif. and others. Those skilled in the art will appreciate the implementation of the compute resources can utilize various computation architectures and as such the compute resources should not be construed as being limited to any particular computation architecture or combination of computation architectures including those explicitly disclosed herein.

The memory resource s can include one or more hardware components that perform storage operations including temporary or permanent storage operations. In some embodiments the memory resource s include volatile and or non volatile memory implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data disclosed herein. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM Erasable Programmable ROM EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store data and which can be accessed by the compute resources .

The other resource s can include any other hardware resources that can be utilized by the compute resources s and or the memory resource s to perform operations described herein. The other resource s can include one or more input and or output processors e.g. network interface controller or wireless radio one or more modems one or more codec chipset one or more pipeline processors one or more fast Fourier transform FFT processors one or more digital signal processors DSPs one or more speech synthesizers and or the like.

The hardware resources operating within the hardware resources layer can be virtualized by one or more virtual machine monitors VMMs K also known as hypervisors hereinafter VMMs operating within the virtualization control layer to manage one or more virtual resources that reside in the virtual resource layer . The VMMs can be or can include software firmware and or hardware that alone or in combination with other software firmware and or hardware manages one or more virtual resources operating within the virtual resource layer .

The virtual resources operating within the virtual resource layer can include abstractions of at least a portion of the compute resources the memory resources the other resources or any combination thereof. These abstractions are referred to herein as virtual machines VMs . In the illustrated embodiment the virtual resource layer includes VMs N hereinafter VMs . Each of the VMs can execute one or more applications to perform the operations described herein.

Turning now to details of a network are illustrated according to an illustrative embodiment. The network includes a cellular network a packet data network for example the Internet and a circuit switched network for example a publicly switched telephone network PSTN .

The cellular network can include for example the IP transport network embodied for example as an LTE network as described above with reference to . The cellular network includes various components such as but not limited to base transceiver stations BTSs NBs eNBs e.g. the eNBs base station controllers BSCs radio network controllers RNCs mobile switching centers MSCs MMEs e.g. the MMEs SGWs e.g. the SGWs PGWs e.g. the PGWs short message service centers SMSCs multimedia messaging service centers MMSCs home location registers HLRs home subscriber servers HSSs visitor location registers VLRs charging platforms billing platforms voicemail platforms GPRS core network components location service nodes an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS and the like. The cellular network also includes radios and nodes for receiving and transmitting voice data and combinations thereof to and from radio transceivers networks the packet data network and the circuit switched network .

A mobile communications device such as for example the user device a cellular telephone a user equipment a mobile terminal a PDA a laptop computer a handheld computer and combinations thereof can be operatively connected to the cellular network . The cellular network can be configured as a 2G GSM network and can provide data communications via GPRS and or EDGE. Additionally or alternatively the cellular network can be configured as a 3G UMTS network and can provide data communications via the HSPA protocol family for example HSDPA EUL also referred to as HSUPA and HSPA . The cellular network also is compatible with 4G mobile communications standards as well as evolved and future mobile standards.

The packet data network includes various devices for example servers computers databases and other devices in communication with another as is generally known. The packet data network devices are accessible via one or more network links. The servers often store various files that are provided to a requesting device such as for example a computer a terminal a smartphone or the like. Typically the requesting device includes software a browser for executing a web page in a format readable by the browser or other software. Other files and or data may be accessible via links in the retrieved files as is generally known. In some embodiments the packet data network includes or is in communication with the Internet. The circuit switched network includes various hardware and software for providing circuit switched communications. The circuit switched network may include or may be what is often referred to as a plain old telephone system POTS . The functionality of a circuit switched network or other circuit switched network are generally known and will not be described herein in detail.

The illustrated cellular network is shown in communication with the packet data network and a circuit switched network though it should be appreciated that this is not necessarily the case. One or more Internet capable devices for example a PC a laptop a portable device or another suitable device can communicate with one or more cellular networks and devices connected thereto through the packet data network . It also should be appreciated that the Internet capable device can communicate with the packet data network through the circuit switched network the cellular network and or via other networks not illustrated .

As illustrated a communications device for example a telephone facsimile machine modem computer or the like can be in communication with the circuit switched network and therethrough to the packet data network and or the cellular network . It should be appreciated that the communications device can be an Internet capable device and can be substantially similar to the Internet capable device . In the specification the network is used to refer broadly to any combination of the networks . It should be appreciated that substantially all of the functionality described with reference to the network can be performed by the cellular network the packet data network and or the circuit switched network alone or in combination with other networks network elements and the like.

Turning now to a network topology for a data center cloud will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The illustrated network topology includes three layers an application APP layer a virtual network topology layer and a physical network topology layer . The APP layer can include one or more application virtual network functions VNFs A N each of which can be divided to one or more sub VNFs A D referred to herein collectively as sub VNFs to be executed by one or more VMs A D referred to herein collectively as VMs .

The virtual network topology layer includes the VMs e.g. the VMs one or more hypervisors e.g. the VMMs and one or more server modules blades A D referred to herein collectively as blades . Each blade can support one hypervisor A D referred to herein collectively as hypervisors that in turn can manage one or more of the VMs . The blades provide computing capacity to support the VMs carrying the VNFs . The hypervisors provide resource management among the VMs supported thereby. A logical server cluster is created for resource allocation and reallocation purpose which includes the blades in the same server host . Each server host includes one or more of the server clusters .

The physical network topology layer includes an Ethernet switch ESwitch group including one or more ESwitches A N A D referred to herein collectively as ESwitches . The physical network topology layer also includes a router group including one or more routers A N referred to herein collectively as routers . The ESwitch group provides traffic switching function among the blades . The router group provides connectivity for traffic routing between the data center cloud and the transport IP network s . The router group may or may not provide multiplexing functions depending upon network design.

The virtual network topology is dynamic by nature and as such the VMs can be moved among the blades as needed. The physical network topology is more static and as such no dynamic resource allocation is involved in this layer. Through such a network topology configuration the association among application VNFs the VM supporting the application VNFs and the blades that hosts the VM can be determined.

In the illustrated example a first VNF is divided into two sub VNFs VNF A and VNF C which is executed by VM A and VM N C respectively. The VM A is hosted by the blade A and managed by the hypervisor A in the server cluster of the server host . Traffic switching between the blade A and the blade N N is performed via ESwitch A. Traffic communications between the ESwitch group and the virtualized IP network s are performed via the router group . The virtual network topology is dynamic by nature due to real time resource allocation reallocation capability of cloud SDN such as provided by the SDN networks . The association of application VM and blade host in this example is the VNF A is executed on the VM A hosted by the blade A in the server cluster A.

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that concepts and technologies directed to service orchestration to support cloud based multi party video conferencing service in a virtual overlay network environment have been disclosed herein. Although the subject matter presented herein has been described in language specific to computer structural features methodological and transformative acts specific computing machinery and computer readable media it is to be understood that the concepts and technologies disclosed herein are not necessarily limited to the specific features acts or media described herein. Rather the specific features acts and mediums are disclosed as example forms of implementing the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

