---

title: User commentary systems and methods
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes receiving program content and data describing program content from a content source, and automatically identifying, based on user preferences of a first user, one or more relevant products or services displayed in the program content. Product-related metadata associated with the program content is identified. The product-related metadata including data relating to the one or more relevant products or services displayed in the program content. The program content is communicated to a display device for presentation to a first user in a first portion of the display device, and the product-related metadata is communicated to a second display device for presentation to a second user substantially simultaneously with the presentation of the program content in the first display device. A user commentary is received from the second device, the user commentary generated by the second user and associated with the program content or product-related metadata.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09584866&OS=09584866&RS=09584866
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 09584866
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160204
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 559 661 filed Dec. 3 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 566 829 filed Aug. 3 2012 and claims the priority benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 515 254 filed Aug. 4 2011 the benefit of priority of each of which is claimed hereby and each are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present disclosure generally relates to data processing techniques and more specifically to systems and methods to enhance or enable shopping by a user or entity.

Advancements in computer and networking technology enable users and entities to conduct various types of transactions online via computer based applications and systems. The increased use of mobile computing devices e.g. smart phones and tablet computers has expanded the manner in which users and entities can conduct online transactions. Additionally the increase in mobile computing device usage results in more people watching video content on their mobile computing devices and using their mobile computing device while simultaneously watching video content on a television or other display system.

Example systems and methods to generate and display product or service information related to program content such as a television program are described. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details.

The content display systems and methods described herein provide an enhanced browsing and shopping experience that enables a user to explore products or services associated with programming they are watching. This programming includes any type of content with a video component such as television programs recorded or live movies sporting events recorded or live concerts and the like. The programming may be displayed on various types of devices such as a television monitor video projector computer screen tablet computer desktop computer mobile computing device and the like. While watching a program the user can simultaneously utilize their mobile device e.g. a tablet computer smart phone portable entertainment device or laptop computer to learn more about the products or services displayed in or mentioned in the program. For example the user can learn about clothing and accessory items worn by actors actresses in the program vehicles driven in the program golf clubs used by players and the like. The user can learn about the products shown in the program and may purchase one or more of the products through their mobile device.

Although specific examples discussed herein focus on fashion related products the content display systems and methods are applicable to any type of product or service. As used herein a mobile device may also be referred to as a portable device or a mobile computing device. 

Particular embodiments allow a user to watch a program on a mobile device a television a desktop laptop computer system or any other device capable of displaying the program. As the user watches the program the content display systems and methods provide live information regarding related products currently available through a network based marketplace an online marketplace an online store a local store i.e. geographically local to the user or any other product source. The related product information may include a picture of the product pricing information source of the product e.g. store and other information that might be of interest to the user.

An application executing on the mobile device generates a user interface on the mobile device that allows a user to tag products program scenes images and so forth by dragging them into a stash tray located along the bottom of the display. These tagged items are saved for later viewing organizing and sharing with other users. When the user is watching a program they can interact with the product by selecting the product shown on the mobile device. For example the user may request to receive additional product details regarding a particular product.

In some embodiments the application executing on the mobile device has been personalized with information about the mobile device user. For example the application may know the user s color preferences clothing size geographic location and so forth. Using this personalized information the application may display available clothing items identified in a television program having the appropriate size and color to match the user s preferences. The application is also capable of showing similar products or related products available from any number of different sources e.g. different sellers . In a particular embodiment available products are shown from multiple sources including both network based marketplaces showing cost and estimated shipping time and local stores showing cost and store location . This embodiment also allows a user to place a particular product on hold at a local store ensuring availability of the product to the user.

A display device e.g. a television computing device or monitor is coupled to receiving device to receive video program data e.g. display signals from receiving device . In alternate embodiments receiving device is incorporated into display device . Display device may receive program content from multiple receiving devices .

A data communication network is coupled to various devices and systems to distribute program content to multiple receiving devices and multiple display devices . As shown in data communication network is coupled to receiving device a mobile device a television metadata source and a network based marketplace . In alternate embodiments one or more content sources and one or more display devices are also coupled to network . Data communication network represents any type of data communication network such as the Internet. In some embodiments data communication network includes multiple networks communicating with one another.

Mobile device includes any computing device capable of performing the operations discussed herein such as a tablet computer smart phone portable entertainment device or laptop computer. Mobile device communicates with data communication network and or directly with receiving device . Additionally mobile device can communicate with other systems and components such as content source display device television metadata source and network based marketplace . Although not shown in mobile device may communicate with other systems and components through a mobile communication network e.g. a cellular network .

Mobile device includes an application stored therein e.g. stored in a non volatile memory device within mobile device . Application receives various data e.g. television program information product or service information and network based marketplace listings and generates a display of information for a user of the mobile device . As discussed herein the display of information may include product or service information associated with products or services shown in a particular television program or other program content. Application also generates a graphical user interface that allows the mobile device user to interact with for example the displayed information.

Television metadata source provides data associated with various program content. This data includes for example television program titles description actors and actresses that appear in the program as well as specific products or services that are displayed during the program. The information regarding specific products or services may include a product name product brand product identifier e.g. a SKU stock keeping unit product description and the like. As discussed herein the metadata received from television metadata source may be displayed on a display device adjacent the program content or on a mobile device for the benefit of a user of the mobile device who is also watching the program content on a display device . In some embodiments the television metadata is generated in substantially real time for a live event such as a sporting event. In other embodiments the television metadata is generated after the program content has been created or concurrently with the program content creation.

Network based marketplace provides an electronic commerce marketplace for users to shop and perform various network based transactions. Any number of users can access network based marketplace through one or more data communication networks such as data communication network . In a particular embodiment mobile device accesses network based marketplace to locate product listings in the network based marketplace that are shown in the program content being viewed by a user. Alternatively mobile device can access network based marketplace to locate product listings for similar items e.g. product listings that are similar to the products shown in the program content being viewed by the user .

Initially program content is received from a content source at . For example a television may receive program content from a content source e.g. content source in through a receiving device e.g. receiving device in . Method also identifies product related metadata associated with the program content at . The product related metadata includes information related to products or services shown or described in the program content. The product related metadata can be received by the television directly or inserted into a display signal generated by a receiving device. For example the product related metadata may be included in the program content data received from the content source. Alternatively the product related metadata may be received by a receiving device and communicated to the television by the receiving device.

In particular embodiments the product related metadata identifies particular locations e.g. temporal locations at which the products or services are shown within the program content. These location identifiers allow one or more devices to match appropriate product information with the current program content scene being displayed. For example the product related metadata may include time or scene information that associates particular products or services with the scenes in the program content. The product related metadata may be generated by one or more human operators a machine and the like.

The method continues by identifying one or more items e.g. products or services in the product related metadata at . Method then selects one or more items from the product related metadata to display to a user at . The program content is then communicated to a display device e.g. a television for display to the user at . Additionally the information regarding the items selected at is communicated to the display device for display to the user at . In alternate embodiments the information regarding the items selected at is communicated to a separate device such as a mobile device for display to the user. In some implementations the program content is displayed to the user via the display device at substantially the same time the information regarding the selected items is displayed to the user via the separate device.

In a particular embodiment the user is a viewer of the program content who is also using a mobile device while watching the program content. The items selected from the product related metadata are communicated to and received by the mobile device. The mobile device can communicate to receive information regarding the items selected from the product related metadata from the television the receiving device the content source the television metadata source or any other data source. In this embodiment the mobile device displays the selected items to the user on the mobile device. For example the mobile device may display information about various products visible in the current scene such as clothing jewelry purses and so forth. Through the mobile device the user can access various product related information regarding the selected items at . For example if the user likes an article of clothing shown in the current scene they can get more information such as the manufacturer of the clothing and where the clothing can be purchased. In this example the mobile device may display listings in a network based marketplace for the product as well as online stores and local stores that sell the product. Additionally the mobile device may display alternate clothing articles that are similar to the product shown in the current scene.

When viewing program content a user can tag or otherwise identify certain products services program scenes and other program elements for later viewing or shopping at . Additionally the tagged items are associated with the user as well as the program content at . This association allows the user to remember for example the program content in which the tagged items appeared or were mentioned.

In some embodiments if a user sees a product they want to learn about after viewing the television program they can tag the product or tag the scene in which the product is displayed for later viewing. As shown for example in the tagged products or scenes can be organized into different categories such as shirts shoes jewelry and miscellaneous items. These tagged products or scenes can be accessed at a later time to learn more about the products share information about the products with other users e.g. friends and social networks or shop for one or more products. Additionally a user may specify where the tagged content or tag metadata is stored e.g. in the user s mobile device or in the network based marketplace . In particular embodiments a user may specify that the tagged content or tag metadata is stored in the network based marketplace and associated with the user s account in the network based marketplace. These embodiments allow a user to retrieve the tagged content and tagged metadata from any device by accessing their account with the network based marketplace.

The user s commentary may include their rating or opinion of the program content a summary of the program content descriptions of characters or scenes and the like. In particular embodiments a marketplace e.g. a network based marketplace is provided that allows users to access commentaries of other users as well as experts actors directors producers or other individuals associated with the program content. For example a commentary marketplace allows fans of a particular television program or movie to access commentaries associated with the television program or movie. In particular implementations the commentaries can be viewed or listened to while watching the television program or movie. Alternatively the commentaries can be viewed or listened to separately from viewing the television program or movie.

Product display portion may include for example names and manufacturers of clothing items item descriptions item photos price and one or more stores or network based marketplaces at which the item is available for purchase. As the images in program display portion change the items and information shown in product display portion also change. In a particular embodiment the items and information shown in product display portion are continually scrolling to show a variety of available clothing items. Although product display portion is shown in as being positioned to the right of program display portion in alternate embodiments product display portion may be located anywhere in the display area e.g. along the left side of program display portion or along the top or bottom of program display portion .

If program display portion and product display portion are presented on a television or computing device the user may select a particular item shown in product display portion by for example touching or clicking on the product information or product image. Alternatively the user may view the television program and associated product information on a television or other display device but select particular items using another system or device such as a mobile device.

A tagging display portion provides various product categories cool shirts random stuff awesome shoes and summer skirts of products or services tagged by a user. For example a user may tag various products services program scenes or other images and associate each tagged item with one of the categories. In a particular implementation to tag an item the user clicks on the item and drags it to the desired category. At a later time the user can access all items in a particular category by clicking on a desired category icon in tagging display portion . To start a new category the user can click an item and drag it to the right edge of tagging display portion in the area labeled Drag here to start new stack .

A product display portion includes for example names and manufacturers of clothing items item photos and a product summary. As the images in the associated television program change the items and information shown in product display portion also change. In a particular embodiment the items and information shown in product display portion are continually scrolling to show a variety of available items. In some embodiments the items shown in product display portion are the same as the items shown in product display portion of .

In an example embodiment when a user clicks on one of the items shown in product display portion additional information about the item is displayed in first display portion . This additional information may include additional item photos a more detailed product description product reviews pricing information stores or network based marketplaces that sell the product and the like.

For example illustrates an example display in which specific details of a selected item Halston Heritage one shoulder black dress are shown in a display portion . In this example the available sizes of the dress are shown and a particular size has been selected size 4 based on a user profile user preferences or other information known about the user. A Buy now button allows the user to purchase the dress through a local store online store network based marketplace or other source.

Referring again to the first display portion the tagging display portion and the product display portion are shown in a particular arrangement with respect to one another. However alternate embodiments may arrange display portions in any manner. Additionally the size and shape of each display portion can be modified to meet user preferences accommodate display screen dimensions and so forth. Alternate embodiments may include additional display portions or fewer display portions as compared to the example of . Similar alternatives can be implemented with respect to the example displays shown in .

An Application Programming Interface API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . Application servers host one or more marketplace applications and payment applications . Application servers are in turn shown to be coupled to one or more database servers that facilitate access to one or more databases .

Marketplace applications may provide a number of marketplace functions and services to users that access networked system . Payment applications may likewise provide a number of payment services and functions to users. Payment applications may allow users to accumulate value e.g. in a commercial currency such as the U.S. dollar or a proprietary currency such as points in accounts and then later to redeem the accumulated value for products e.g. goods or services that are made available via the marketplace applications . While the marketplace and payment applications and are shown in to both form part of networked system it will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments payment applications may form part of a payment service that is separate and distinct from networked system .

Further while the system shown in employs a client server architecture the present invention is of course not limited to such an architecture and could equally well find application in a distributed or peer to peer architecture system for example. The various marketplace and payment applications and could also be implemented as standalone software programs which do not necessarily have networking capabilities.

Web client accesses the various marketplace and payment applications and via the web interface supported by web server . Similarly programmatic client accesses the various services and functions provided by the marketplace and payment applications and via the programmatic interface provided by API server . Programmatic client may for example be a seller application e.g. the TurboLister application developed by eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. to enable sellers to author and manage listings on networked system in an off line manner and to perform batch mode communications between programmatic client and networked system . Some embodiments of the present invention may be implemented by components of the marketplace application s .

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory within the static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media. The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

While the machine readable storage medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention. The term machine readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to non transitory solid state memories optical and magnetic media and the like.

Thus content display systems and methods have been described. Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

In the foregoing description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

