---

title: Virtual cable modem termination system
abstract: A method, a system, and an apparatus provide for a cable modem termination system (CMTS). The CMTS may include a virtual machine configured to provide a plurality of virtual CMTSs (vCMTSs). The CMTS may also include a plurality of subscriber groups. Each subscriber group of the plurality of subscriber groups may be assigned to a vCMTS of the plurality of vCMTSs. Additionally, each vCMTS is configured to provide a process.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09641354&OS=09641354&RS=09641354
owner: CISCO TECHNOLOLGY, INC.
number: 09641354
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160219
---
This application is a continuation and claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 041 859 filed Sep. 30 2013 entitled VIRTUAL CABLE MODEM TERMINATION SYSTEM Inventors Alon Bernstein et al. The disclosure of the prior application is considered part of and is incorporated in its entirety by reference in the disclosure of this application.

This disclosure relates in general to the field of communications and more particularly to managing virtual cable modem termination systems in a network environment.

Cable operators have widely deployed high speed data services on cable television systems. These data services include a cable modem that allows a computer to communicate over an ordinary cable TV network Hybrid Fiber Coax HFC cable. A Cable Modem Termination System CMTS connects the cable TV network to a data network such as the Internet. The Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS is one of the cable modem standards used for transferring data over the cable TV network. Increasing demand for cable data services requires additional CMTS processing capacity. This can be prohibitively expensive since each CMTS provides routing DOCSIS Media Access Control MAC processing downstream signal modulation and upstream signal demodulation. A conventional CMTS architecture does not scale well since any one of the separate components in the CMTS can limit processing capacity and only a limited number of DOCSIS packet processing devices and physical interfaces can be located in the same CMTS chassis.

Different cable networks may also have different processing requirements. For example one cable network may require substantially more upstream data services than other cable networks. However it is difficult to customize CMTS architectures for these different data services requirements. It is also expensive to provide redundancy in current CMTS architectures since each backup CMTS includes DOCSIS MAC processors downstream cable modulators and upstream signal demodulators.

In one example embodiment a method is provided that includes identifying a subscriber group for a virtual cable modem termination system vCMTS retrieving a generic configuration file creating a specific configuration file for the subscriber group using the generic configuration file and configuring the vCMTS for the subscriber group using the specific configuration file. The creating of the specific configuration file can include retrieving information about the subscriber group from a pre provisioned file and adjusting the generic configuration file according to the pre provisioned file to create the specific configuration file. In more particular embodiments the method can include periodically storing a state of the vCMTS determining if there is a failure of the vCMTS and restoring the stored state.

In a specific embodiment core network may be coupled to the Internet content providers and a Public Switched Telephone Network to provide these services to cable modem . Core network may be connected to various content providers for providing media content e.g. movies television channels etc. . The content may further distributed by access network to ACS through router . ACS may be configured to distribute content to cable modem in the form of digital or Internet Protocol IP television.

In this example ACS may communicate via optical fibers with access network and via coaxial coax cable to cable modem and as such the combination of fiber and coax is known as a hybrid fiber coax HFC network any combination of fiber and coax may be used anywhere in communication system . Communication system may be used to provide high speed data services including cable Internet voice over IP VoIP and IP television services to various subscribers.

Core network may be coupled to the Internet and the public switched telephone network for providing Internet and telephony services e.g. to and from cable modem . Content providers via the Internet may also distribute media content. DOCSIS is used to convey Internet or other packet based networking information as well as packetized digital media between vCMTS and cable modem . Cable modem may be a representation of a single subscriber multiple subscribers a subscriber group a service group or any other type of desirable grouping.

In a specific embodiment DOCSIS may be carried between vCMTS and ACS using fiber optic or other medium at the physical layer. The physical PHY layer may be referred to herein simply as a downstream PHY or PHY layer. ACS may be configured to convert the downstream optical PHY to downstream coaxial PHY for transmission to cable modem . Similarly ACS converts the upstream coaxial PHY to upstream optical PHY for transmission to vCMTS . ACS may also provide Media Access Control MAC protocol layer services.

Traditional M CMTS architectures may employ a downstream PHY e.g. a fiber node that houses one or more edge quadrature amplitude modulation EQAM modules to provide radio frequency RF modulation for a downstream transmission. It should be understood that various electrical to optical E O and optical to electrical OLE conversions might take place along the downstream and upstream DOCSIS pathways with a coaxial PHY ultimately presented at the customer premise e.g. at cable modem . The downstream nodes can employ an Internet Protocol IP tunnel that encapsulates DOCSIS according to a Downstream External PHY Interface DEPI specification. While DEPI provides some control plane information this information may be limited to the DOCSIS realm. As such hardware firmware and or software components of ACS may be configured manually e.g. based on whether the EQAM will use QAM 64 or QAM 256 modulation . Some downstream parameters may be configured using DEPI.

In an embodiment the generic control protocol GCP DEPI and upstream External PHY Interface UEPI tunnels may be referred to as pseudowires. A pseudowire is a network connection that encapsulates a point to point protocol using a packet network protocol where the encapsulation is transparent to the point to point endpoints. Many pseudowires carry time sensitive data or protocols that require synchronization and therefore use a timing source. The pseudowires may be facilitated for example by Multi Protocol Label Switching MPLS or Layer 2 Tunneling Protocol version 3 L2TPv3 . Note that technically GCP is not a pseudowire per se since it carries control plane information but for ease of description GCP may be conceptually thought of as a pseudowire. Any vCMTS and ACS may include hardware and software provisioned to implement the techniques described herein.

In a specific embodiment ACS may be aggregating de aggregating the traffic into Layer 2 tunnels such as Layer 2 Tunneling Protocol Version 3 tunnels DEPI or UEPI however it may apply to other vCMTS architectures as well. Interconnect and vSwitch may be part of data center systems and may be used to access specific servers virtual machines within the data center as well as create network overlays within a data center. In an embodiment the connectivity may be fairly static but under some conditions vCMTS may be moved based on particular needs scenarios etc. Depending on the load balancing architecture this may or not affect how the connectivity relative to ACS and service chain elements is managed on the forwarding plane.

In an embodiment vCMTS may be part of a service chain where the service chain can include standalone modules that apply specific features to traffic flows for example Deep packet inspection DPI Network Access Traversal NAT and parental control. Since the main network service that vCMTS provides is managed connectivity to subscribers i.e. QoS and IP connectivity at the end of a service chain the traffic is prepared for delivery. A software defined network SDN may coordinate the forwarding path across the various network elements depicted in . Additionally in different embodiments 3GPP packet core elements may be applied to different aspects of the service chain. A network architecture based on the concept of a cable packet core may be moved to a cloud environment.

In an embodiment routing module may be configured to implement routing or forwarding operations and forwarding module may be configured to provide packet forwarding operations. Additionally in some embodiments CMTS may also include a utility component adapted to provide a system clock and a timestamp functionality. Routing module may be configured to provide layer one layer two layer three and layer four functionality as well as quality of service QoS functionality.

According to an embodiment routing module may be configured as a processor based routing system comprising functionality incorporated within a typical router. For example as shown in the embodiment of routing module comprises a processor e.g. a microprocessor without Interlocked Pipeline Stages . A network routing operating system portions of which may reside in memory and executed by routing module may functionally organize CMTS by invoking network operations in support of software processes executing on CMTS .

In an embodiment routing module may be configured to construct and load routing tables used by forwarding module . Routing module may also be configured or designed to perform configuration management functions and to communicate with neighboring peer standby and or backup routers to exchange protocol data units used to construct the routing tables in accordance with routing algorithms. Additionally other memory types including various computer readable media may be used for storing and executing program instructions pertaining to the operation of routing module .

According to various embodiments forwarding module may comprise a processor and memory for handling transport layer and network layer functionality. Forwarding module may also be configured to provide transaction compacting functionality data parcel tunneling functionality data transmission functionality etc. According to a specific embodiment line card may be configured or designed to implement selected aspects of the DOCSIS functionality such as for example a DOCSIS MAC functionality. In an embodiment DOCSIS control may be configured to send timing and frequency requirements to line card . DOCSIS control may also include a processor .

In the specific embodiment as shown in line card may provide functions on several network layers including a physical layer and a MAC layer. The physical layer may be responsible for receiving and transmitting radio frequency RF signals. Hardware portions of the physical layer may include at least one upstream PHY such as upstream PHY and or at least one downstream PHY such as downstream PHY . The physical layer may also include software for driving the hardware components of the physical layer.

In an embodiment upstream optical data signals traffic arriving via an optical fiber node are converted to electrical signals and then demodulated by upstream PHY . The demodulated information is then passed to the MAC layer. In an embodiment the MAC layer includes both a MAC hardware portion and a MAC software portion for upstream MAC and downstream MAC . The MAC layer software portion may include software relating to DOCSIS MAC functionality. The MAC layer hardware and software portions can operate together to provide the DOCSIS MAC functionality.

In an embodiment the MAC layer MAC and may encapsulate with MAC headers downstream packets at downstream MAC and decapsulate the MAC headers upstream packets at upstream MAC . The encapsulation and decapsulation processes may proceed for transmission of data or other information. The MAC headers may include addresses to specific modems if sent downstream or to the CMTS if sent upstream . In different embodiments cable modems may also include MAC addressing components. In the cable modems these components may encapsulate upstream data with a header containing the MAC address of the CMTS.

Upstream MAC may be configured to pass the traffic to backplane . Backplane may include the appropriate hardware and or software for converting data formats received at the line cards to a suitable protocol format for transmission from the line card to forwarding module . In this embodiment backplane may be coupled to the respective interface circuitry of line card and forwarding module . In an embodiment backplane may be configured to pass traffic to downstream MAC from forwarding module .

Downstream MAC transmits information to downstream PHY . Downstream PHY takes the traffic or other information in a packet structure and converts it to modulated downstream frames on the downstream carrier using for example QAM64 modulation. Other methods of modulation may also be used such as for example QAM256 modulation CDMA Code Division Multiple Access OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing FSK FREQ Shift Keying etc. The return data is likewise modulated using for example QAM16 or QSPK. According to a specific embodiment the modulated data is converted from intermediate frequency IF electrical signals to radio frequency RF electrical signals or vice versa using one or more electrical signal converters not shown .

Additionally line card may include an upstream scheduler that arbitrates bandwidth requirements among multiple cable modems. A map builder may also be included within line card to transmit a bandwidth allocation map containing upstream slot specifications and grant specifications to cable modems.

In different embodiments line card may also include a central hardware block including one or more processors and memory. These hardware components interact with software and other hardware portions of the various layers within the line card. They provide general purpose computing power for much of the software. The memory may include for example I O memory e.g. buffers program memory shared memory etc. One or more data structures used for implementing the technique of the present disclosure may reside in such memory. In one embodiment the software entities are implemented as part of a network operating system running on hardware. Preferably at least parts of the functionality of the various embodiments embodiment are implemented in software as part of the operating system. In such software may be part of MAC layer software or may be closely associated therewith. Of course the logic necessary to implement the methods of this embodiment could reside in hardware software or some combination of the two.

Additionally according to specific embodiments at least a portion of functions described herein that are performed by CMTS line card and or selected components thereof may be implemented in a virtual CMTS vCMTS system. Further the various embodiments may be implemented in any computer network having a standardized protocol for utilizing a central termination system to schedule timeslots for remote stations or nodes on a return or upstream channel.

In an embodiment vCMTS may include routing module forwarding module and DOCSIS control . Access hardware may include line card . Line card may include upstream MAC downstream MAC upstream PHY downstream PHY upstream scheduler and MAP builder . Additionally access hardware and vCMTS may be connected through a router . Router may be a router with capabilities to connect to a cloud infrastructure.

In an embodiment vCMTS may be a cloud infrastructure with industry standard high volume servers switches and storage which may be located in datacenters network nodes and or in the end user premises. vCMTS may involve the implementation of network functions in software that can run on a range of industry standard server hardware and that can be moved to or instantiated in various locations in the network as required without the need for installation of new equipment.

In a specific example router may communicate with vCMTS through a management module . Management module may be configured to manage multiple vCMTSs. For example management module may manage a vCMTS for each subscriber group for each subscriber or any other desirable grouping. In different embodiments management module may be provisioned differently. For example management modules may be implemented in a cloud environment within access hardware vCMTS virtual machine across multiple servers using shared processing and implemented in other locations.

In a specific embodiment the architecture in this embodiment may be implemented using a modular head end architecture MHA protocol suite e.g. MHA version 2 as the interface between routing module forwarding module and line card . However in an example for non hybrid fiber coaxial network access such as a passive optical network PON a generic IP without any tunneling may be used.

This embodiment may have some functions for example a router and or services implemented on a generic router. In one or more embodiments the entire control plane may be implemented in vCMTS the cloud . In one example embodiment CMTS environment extracts Ethernet frames at the remote PHY. Therefore it may be possible to implement services at the remote PHY itself.

In one or more embodiments this architecture implements a full MAC function including decryption. Therefore the packets that are sent to from access hardware are not automatically encrypted. If a secure link is desired between access hardware router and vCMTS with MHAv then it may be encrypted.

In an embodiment vCMTS may be a cloud infrastructure with industry standard high volume servers switches and storage which may be located in datacenters network nodes and in the end user premises. vCMTS may involve the implementation of network functions in software that can run on a range of industry standard server hardware and that can be moved to or instantiated in various locations in the network as required without the need for installation of new equipment.

Access hardware may communicate with vCMTS through a management module . Management module may be configured to manage multiple vCMTSs. For example management module may manage a vCMTS for each subscriber group for each subscriber or any other desirable grouping. In different embodiments management module may implement different processes herein with a router such as router . In a specific embodiment CMTS environment may be implemented by having upstream MAC downstream MAC including the upstream scheduler and map builder in the cloud or a router. Since MHAv has the flexibility to move MAC functions between the remote and hub locations the interface for this embodiment may also fall within the framework of the MHAv set of protocols. Information and data may be encrypted or scrambled between vCMTS and access hardware .

Management module may be configured to manage multiple vCMTSs. For example management module may manage a vCMTS for each subscriber group for each subscriber or any other desirable grouping. In different embodiments management module may be provisioned differently. For example management module may be implemented in a cloud environment within access hardware vCMTS virtual machine across multiple servers using shared processing and implemented in other locations. In different embodiments management module may implement different processes herein with a router such as router .

In an embodiment vCMTS may be a cloud infrastructure with industry standard high volume servers switches and storage which may be located in datacenters network nodes and in the end user premises. vCMTS may involve the implementation of network functions in software that can run on a range of industry standard server hardware and that can be moved to or instantiated in various locations in the network as required without the need for installation of new equipment.

Access hardware may communicate with vCMTS through a management module . Management module may be configured to manage multiple vCMTSs. For example management module may manage a vCMTS for each subscriber group for each subscriber or any other desirable grouping. In a specific embodiment the control plane routing module is separated from the data plane forwarding module and line card . In this embodiment only the control plane may be exported to cloud a general computing resource or virtual machine . One or more embodiments of this disclosure provide a set of protocols to remotely configure and manage the remote device access hardware . In an example routing specific policies can be implemented with but not limited to either OnePK or OpenFlow protocols.

In an embodiment the DOCSIS control may remain with access hardware . However in other embodiments DOCSIS control may be removed to vCMTS as well. In this embodiment the data plane may split across access hardware . A router services network functions using different techniques and CMTS environment can conform to the service chain concept. In different examples some of the services can also be implemented in vCMTS . Different main cable specific data plane functions may be implemented in the network. DOCSIS management over PON may be an example of a technology that may be utilize CMTS environment .

Note that are examples of CMTS environments according to various example embodiments. The examples of are merely example and do not limit the claims in any way. One or more embodiments provide for a server complex that serves more than one CMTS. For example the server complex may support a large city or region with twenty CMTSs. The server complex may have geographical redundancy.

In an embodiment remote PHY modules may be processed by network software rather than a local CMTS. The network software may be local remote or hosted. The centralized software may operate with many system hardware configurations using generic application programming interfaces API . The cloud communication may be a software defined network or another type off API. Different embodiments may provide a system where a radio frequency is provided at the edge of a network where it can connect to a coaxial cable packet forwarding and quality of service is done by a network element and or there may be different splits of software between the CMTS and the cloud.

In certain example embodiments there may be an event threshold that may determine if an event is hosted on the server or locally. If that event threshold was for example one second then transactions faster than one second may be implemented locally while transactions that can tolerate more than one second may be implemented remotely. The latency of operation may be dominated by server reaction time rather than transmission time. If this is the case then geographical proximity may not be necessary.

In an embodiment the vertical splitting may perform orchestration of the vertical slices as depicted in . Throughout this description a vCMTS is associated with a subscriber group defined as a ground of subscribers sharing a set of fiber nodes . However the different embodiments are not limited to slices of subscriber groups and the same concepts can be applied to other types of slices.

In an example embodiment vCMTS management system may orchestrate a large number of vCMTSs in order to simplify and harmonize the vCMTS system solution to appear as a single manageable entity to network management system . vCMTS management system may include the CMTS configuration elements. vCMTS management system may access database for a state or a configuration file . In some embodiments vCMTS management system may be an entity in a data center or cloud . State may be a snapshot or recording of critical system files program files and or registry settings.

In an embodiment configuration file may include initial settings for critical system files program files and or registry settings. Configuration file may be a generic subscriber group configuration file used as a template to create specific configuration files. In an example vCMTS management system may access a pre provisioned file to create a specific configuration file based on configuration file . The pre provisioned file may be created dynamically by retrieving subscriber information or may be created manually by an administrator. In a specific embodiment mobility manager may be configured to move vCMTS within the data center or outside the data center because of load balancing fault recovery or other reasons.

Additionally in an embodiment management module may include a processor and a memory element . In different example implementations the activities outlined herein may be implemented by logic encoded in one or more tangible media which may include non transitory media. For example the activities outlined herein may be implemented by embedded logic provided in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC digital signal processor DSP instructions software potentially inclusive of object code and source code firmware and or hardware to be executed by a processor or other similar machine etc. In some of these instances memory element can store data used for the operations described herein. This includes memory element being able to store software logic code or processor instructions that are executed to carry out the activities described in this Specification.

Processor can execute any type of instructions associated with the data to achieve the operations detailed herein in this Specification. In one example a processor could transform an element or an article e.g. data from one state or thing to another state or thing. In another example the activities outlined herein may be implemented with fixed logic or programmable logic e.g. software computer instructions executed by processor and the elements identified herein could be some type of a programmable processor programmable digital logic e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM or an ASIC that includes digital logic software code electronic instructions or any suitable combination thereof. Any of the potential processing elements modules and machines described in this Specification should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term processor. 

The computer elements in management module may further keep information to be used in achieving the tunneling activities as discussed herein in any suitable memory element such as memory element e.g. random access memory RAM read only memory ROM EPROM EEPROM ASIC a disk drive a floppy disk a compact disk ROM CD ROM a digital versatile disk DVD flash memory a magneto optical disk other types of nonvolatile machine readable media that are capable of storing data and information etc. software hardware firmware or in any other suitable component device element or object where appropriate and based on particular needs. Moreover the information being used tracked sent or received in management module could be provided in any database register queue table cache or other storage structure all of which can be provided in any suitable timeframe. Any of the memory items or storage options may be included within the broad term memory element as used herein.

The apparatus may comprise means including for example processor of for performing such operations. In an example embodiment an apparatus for example management module is transformed by having memory for example memory element of comprising computer code configured to working with a processor for example processor of cause the apparatus to perform set of operations of .

In an embodiment since vertical slices may be similar the same base configuration can be applied to all of them. Standard tools for configuration management such as netconf may be used to coordinate the configuration across the vCMTSs in order to reduce the operational overhead of managing a large number of vCMTS. At block a subscriber group for a vCMTS is identified. At the apparatus retrieves a generic service group configuration. The generic service group configuration may be a configuration file for a generic vCMTS such as vCMTS . At block the apparatus creates a specific configuration file for a specific service group. A vCMTS configuration file may be a list of parameters and their values. For example some parameters and values may be but not limited to CMTS name cmts1 fiber node name FN2 number of upstreams 3 upstream 1 modulation 64 QAM.

At block the apparatus configures a vCMTS for the specific service group using the specific configuration file. As used herein a configuration file may be a part of an image file. An image file may include an executable. As used herein wherever a flow diagram manages a configuration file the flow diagram may also manage an image file in a similar manner.

At block the apparatus retrieves an initial state of a vCMTS. The configuration files need to be managed and distributed to the vCMTSs. A state may be a snapshot or recording of critical system files program files and or registry settings. At block the apparatus may periodically store a current state. The state may be saved stored in a database. The state can be periodically saved per vCMTS. For example once a day per hour or any other desirable setting based on time or an event. At block the apparatus determines whether there is a loss of the current state. If there is a loss the apparatus at block may restore the saved state. If the vCMTS crashes the stored state can be quickly reloaded. Otherwise if there is not a loss the apparatus repeats block .

At block the apparatus may reconcile a state of a subscriber. The changes from the older state to the new one may be reconciled quickly in a cable specific way. For example if a new subscriber joined just between the time a vCMTS configuration file was saved and a crashed it will not be restored. However the subscriber may still be quickly brought back online. Still the majority of subscribers may be immediately brought back online.

In different embodiments vCMTS may run different software SW versions. This fine grained SW distribution will allow a multiple system operator to implement SW one service group at a time. In turn this may significantly reduce the test and qualification times for new SW releases by enabling in production testing of SW. For example if a service group is less than 500 subscribers even if there are bugs in the SW version they are less impactful on the system. At block the apparatus retrieves an initial state of the vCMTS. At block the apparatus may upgrade software of a vCMTS. The software may be upgraded and the configuration file may be amended to reflect the current configurations.

At block the apparatus may monitor the vCMTS. The vCMTS may be monitored for performance benchmarking statistics and metrics. At block the apparatus may determine if there is a failure with the vCMTS. If there is a failure then at block the apparatus may stop the vCMTS. Otherwise the apparatus may continue to block and monitor the vCMTS. Once the vCMTS has been stopped at block the management module may restore the initial state. The initial state may be the state of the vCMTS before the upgrade of software.

Note that CMTS vCMTS and ACS are network elements that can facilitate the network communication activities discussed herein. As used herein in this Specification the term network element is meant to encompass routers switches cable boxes gateways bridges loadbalancers cable CMTS routers DSLAMs cellular access concentrators WiMAX access concentrators firewalls cable modems inline service nodes proxies servers processors modules or any other suitable device component element proprietary appliance or object operable to exchange information in a network environment. These network elements may include any suitable hardware software components modules interfaces or objects that facilitate the operations thereof. This may be inclusive of appropriate algorithms communication protocols and interfaces that allow for the effective exchange of data or information.

In one implementation CMTS vCMTS and or ACS include software to achieve or to foster the network communication activities discussed herein. This could include for example the implementation of instances of DOCSIS control management module routing module etc. where these elements interact perform reciprocating functions and or suitably coordinate their activities with peers. Additionally each of these elements can have an internal structure e.g. a processor a memory element etc. to facilitate some of the operations described herein. In other embodiments these network communication activities may be executed externally to these elements or included in some other network element to achieve the intended functionality. Alternatively CMTS vCMTS and or ACS may include software or reciprocating software that can coordinate with other network elements in order to achieve the network communication activities described herein. In still other embodiments one or several devices may include any suitable algorithms hardware software components modules interfaces or objects that facilitate the operations discussed herein with respect to resequencing activities.

Cable Modem may be representative of any type of client or user wishing to participate in a meeting session in communication system e.g. or in any other online platform . Furthermore cable modem may be associated with individuals clients customers or end users wishing to participate in a meeting session in communication system via some network. The term endpoint is inclusive of devices used to initiate a communication such as a computer a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop or electronic notebook a cellular telephone of any kind an iPhone an IP phone a Blackberry a Google Droid an iPad a tablet an Ultrabook a Microsoft Surface or any other device component element or object capable of initiating voice audio video media or data exchanges within communication system . Cable Modem may also be inclusive of a suitable interface to the human user such as a microphone a display or a keyboard or other terminal equipment. Cable Modem may also be any device that seeks to initiate a communication on behalf of another entity or element such as a program a proprietary conferencing device a database or any other component device element or object capable of initiating an exchange within communication system . Data as used herein in this document refers to any type of numeric voice video media or script data or any type of source or object code or any other suitable information in any appropriate format that may be communicated from one point to another.

It is imperative to note that are indicative of just some of the multitude of example implementations of communication system . Any of the modules or elements within communication system CMTS vCMTS ACS cable modem etc. may readily be replaced substituted or eliminated based on particular needs. Furthermore although described with reference to particular scenarios where a given module e.g. management module is provided any one or more of these elements may be provided externally or consolidated and or combined in any suitable fashion. In certain instances certain elements may be provided in a single proprietary module device unit etc. in order to achieve the teachings of the present disclosure.

It should also be noted that CMTS vCMTS ACS and or cable modem may share or coordinate certain processing operations. Using a similar rationale their respective memory elements may store maintain and or update data in any number of possible manners. Additionally any of the illustrated memory elements or processors may be removed or otherwise consolidated such that a single processor and a single memory location are responsible for certain activities associated with the teachings of the present disclosure. In a general sense the arrangement depicted in may be more logical in representations whereas a physical architecture may include various permutations combinations hybrids of these elements.

Note that in certain example embodiments the operations outlined herein may be implemented by logic encoded in one or more tangible media e.g. embedded logic provided in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC digital signal processor DSP instructions software potentially inclusive of object code and source code to be executed by a processor or other similar machine etc. . In some of these instances a memory element may store data used for the operations described herein. This includes the memory element being able to store software logic code or processor instructions that may be executed to carry out the activities described in this Specification. A processor may execute any type of instructions associated with the data to achieve the operations detailed herein in this Specification. In one example the processor could transform an element or an article e.g. data from one state or thing to another state or thing. In another example the activities outlined herein may be implemented with fixed logic or programmable logic e.g. software computer instructions executed by a processor and the elements identified herein could be some type of a programmable processor programmable digital logic e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM or an ASIC that includes digital logic software code electronic instructions or any suitable combination thereof.

Note that with the examples provided herein interaction may be described in terms of two or three elements. However this has been done for purposes of clarity and example only. In certain cases it may be easier to describe one or more of the functionalities of a given set of flows by only referencing a limited number of network elements. It should be appreciated that communication system and its teachings are readily scalable and may accommodate more complicated sophisticated arrangements and configurations. Accordingly the examples provided herein should not limit the scope or inhibit the broad teachings of communication system as potentially applied to a myriad of other architectures. Additionally although described with reference to particular scenarios where vCMTS and ACS reside in a particular physical location vCMTS and ACS may reside in any location provided it has some connectivity to a suitable network.

It is also important to note that the steps discussed with reference to illustrate only some of the possible scenarios that may be executed by or within communication system . Some of these steps may be deleted or removed where appropriate or these steps may be modified or changed considerably without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition a number of these operations have been described as being executed concurrently with or in parallel to one or more additional operations. However the timing of these operations may be altered considerably. The preceding operational flows have been offered for purposes of example and discussion. Substantial flexibility is provided by communication system in that any suitable arrangements chronologies configurations and timing mechanisms may be provided without departing from the teachings of the present disclosure.

Although the present disclosure has been described in detail with reference to particular embodiments it should be understood that various other changes substitutions and alterations may be made hereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. For example although the present disclosure has been described as operating in CMTS environments or arrangements the present disclosure may be used in any online environment that could benefit from such technology. Numerous other changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications may be ascertained to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass all such changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications as falling within the scope of the appended claims.

