---

title: Automatically identifying reduced availability of multi-channel media distributors for authentication or authorization
abstract: Embodiments are provided for automatically identifying reduced availability of multi-channel media distributors for authentication or authorization. For example, an entitlement service communicates with a multi-channel media distributor to authenticate viewers requesting content from programmers or to confirm that authenticated viewers are authorized to receive content from the programmers. The entitlement service receives requests for various programmers to provide media content to user devices, and transmits the requests to the multi-channel media distributor. The entitlement service determines a reduced availability of the multi-channel media distributor based on, for example, an unusually low success rate for authenticating users or authorizing the users' access to content access based on the transmitted requests. Due to this reduced availability of the multi-channel media distributor, the entitlement service provides the requesting user devices with temporary access to the media content from the programmers during a period in which the reduced availability occurs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09641880&OS=09641880&RS=09641880
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 09641880
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160315
---
This application is related to concurrently filed U.S. patent application Ser. No. 15 070 053 entitled Automatically Determining Restored Availability of Multi Channel Media Distributors for Authentication or Authorization which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This disclosure relates generally to computer implemented methods and systems and more particularly relates to automatically identifying reduced availability of multi channel media distributors for authentication or authorization.

A multi channel media distributor such as a cable company or other multi channel video programming distributor provides media content for multiple television channels or other media channels to subscribers over dedicated networks. The individual media content offered to subscribers is typically provided by numerous different programmers or other content providers. For example a typical multi channel media distributor offers 100 or more television channels from 50 or more different programmers and delivers the television content for all of those channels through cable or telephone wires to the homes of its subscribers.

As use of the Internet and mobile computing devices has grown viewers have begun to seek programmer video channels through the Internet on mobile phones and by directly looking for media programmer provided content outside of the dedicated multi channel media distributor networks. For example a given viewer will have a subscription with a cable television company multi channel media distributor A and be able to watch a local football game on his home television on channel B which is provided by media programmer B.

Existing systems allow the viewer to also watch the football game and other channel content even when the viewer is not at home and thus cannot access the multi channel media distributor dedicated network or when the viewer uses a mobile device rather than a television to view media content from one or more channel. In these systems a multi channel media distributor acts as an identity provider for end users by authenticating users on behalf of programmers verifying that authenticated users are authorized to access certain content provided by programmers or both. In an authentication operation the multi channel media distributor verifies that a user has presented valid credentials for a given programmer in response to the user s computing device attempting to view or otherwise access an online resource e.g. a TV channel on the programmer s web site. In an authorization operation the multi channel media distributor verifies that the authenticated credentials are entitled to access a particular resource provided by the programmer. For example a viewer accesses a website or mobile device app provided by media programmer B and programmer B provides the video directly to the viewer through the Internet after authenticating the viewer and confirming that the viewer s access to the video is consistent with the viewer s subscription to the multi channel media distributor. Specifically programmer B provides the video based on checking with the multi channel media distributor to authenticate the viewer s subscription to confirm that the viewer is authorized to receive the particular video content e.g. the football game or both.

Existing systems involving multi channel media distributors and programmers may not adequately respond when problems arise with the multi channel media distributor authentication and authorization. For example during periods of high traffic for a provider e.g. breaking news the beginning of a sporting event etc. multi channel media distributor servers are sometimes overwhelmed with requests to authenticate viewers or verify that the viewers are authorized to access content from the programmers. The multi channel media distributors are often not able to process requests due to having to process the extreme volume in such circumstances and the result is that many viewers do not have access to the videos at all or end up experiencing long delays without having access to the videos.

Therefore it is desirable to automatically identify reduced availability of multi channel media distributors so that appropriate action may be taken transparently to viewers.

Embodiments are provided for automatically identifying reduced availability of multi channel media distributors for authentication or authorization. In some embodiments an entitlement service communicates with a multi channel media distributor e.g. a cable provider to authenticate viewers requesting content from programmers such as providers of videos or other media content on a channel or to confirm that authenticated viewers are authorized to receive content from the programmers. Because the entitlement service is positioned between multiple programmers and the multi channel media distributor the entitlement service can determine whether the multi channel media distributor is experiencing reduced availability e.g. by failing to respond to authentication or authorization requests .

For example the entitlement service receives requests for various programmers to provide media content to user devices and transmits the requests to the multi channel media distributor. The entitlement service then determines a reduced availability of the multi channel media distributor based on for example an unusually low success rate for authenticating users or authorizing the users access to content access based on the transmitted requests. For instance if the multi channel media distributor has historically authorized or authenticated a certain percentage of users for access to programmers media content and the entitlement service determines that the percentage of successful authentication or authorizations during a current period is far below that historical percentage the low success rate indicates a reduced availability of the multi channel media distributor during this current period. Due to this reduced availability of the multi channel media distributor the entitlement service provides the requesting user devices with temporary access to the media content from the programmers during a period in which the reduced availability occurs e.g. by generating temporary tokens granting access to the programmers content .

These illustrative features are mentioned not to limit or define the disclosure but to provide examples to aid understanding thereof. Additional embodiments are discussed in the Detailed Description and further description is provided there.

As discussed above existing systems in which multi channel media distributors provide authentication or authorization functions for media programmers do not adequately detect that the availability of a multi channel media distributor has been reduced. Embodiments are disclosed that automatically identify reduced availability of multi channel media distributors for authentication or authorization. For example an entitlement service which is positioned in a data network between programmers and a multi channel media distributor analyzes data traffic involving the multi channel media distributor and uses this analysis to determine if the multi channel media distributor is unavailable. The entitlement service compensates for this unavailability by temporarily providing users with access to media content during the period of unavailability. This allows user devices to access media content from programmers without being impacted by the unavailability of the multi channel media distributor.

The following example is provided to introduce certain embodiments of the present disclosure. In some embodiments an entitlement service receives requests for programmers to provide media content to user devices and then transmits those requests to a multi channel media distributor. The entitlement service is able to determine how frequently requests associated with different programmers result in users being authenticated by the multi channel media distributor being authorized by the multi channel media distributor for access to the programmers media content or both. Thus the entitlement service collects and analyzes data regarding the responsiveness of the multi channel media distributor and can thereby detect that the multi channel media distributor is unavailable during a given time period. If this reduced availability is detected by the entitlement service the entitlement service facilitates temporary access to the programmers media content without using the multi channel media distributor to authenticate or authorize users.

In one example the entitlement service uses a success rate for authentication or authorization requests to determine this availability. An example of a success rate is a percentage of requests for authentication or authorization that result in successful authentications or authorizations by the multi channel media distributor. The success rate being below 100 may not necessarily indicate an unavailability of the multi channel media distributor since some users may provide invalid credentials and some authenticated users may attempt to access content outside of their subscription. Thus a given multi channel media distributor such as a cable company may historically authenticate users or authorize content access for a certain percentage of these requests when the cable company is operating normally. During a certain period e.g. the most recent hour the most recent ten minute block etc. the entitlement service determines that a lower percentage of requests for authentication or authorization were successful. This lowered success rate may indicate that the cable company is unable to service all requests e.g. due to a spike in traffic to a given programmer .

In some embodiments the entitlement service detects the unavailability of a multi channel media distributor by using test requests from a test server instead of or in addition to live requests received from users attempting to access certain media content. In one example the entitlement service causes a test server to transmit test requests for authentication or authorization. These artificial requests which are generated for testing purposes rather than being generated by users attempting to access media content include test credentials that are known to be valid by the entitlement service and that should therefore result in a successful authentication or authorization event. The entitlement service receives these test requests and transmits the test requests to the multi channel media distributor. One or more authentication failures or authorization failures for these test requests indicates that the multi channel media distributor is unavailable since the test credentials are known to be valid. Therefore the entitlement service can take corrective action e.g. providing temporary access to programmer content based on identifying failed authentications or authorizations resulting from the test requests. In some embodiments the entitlement service uses these test requests to confirm an initial determination of unavailability that is based on a low success rate for live requests.

As used herein the term programmer refers to a person or business entity or the electronic devices operated by the person or business entity that provides video content or other media content made available on one or more channels provided by one or more multi channel media distributors. In one example a programmer is an entity that creates content organizes content or otherwise makes content available for multiple media channels e.g. television channels . Programmers also make their media content available to users via networks other than the dedicated networks of the multi channel media distributors. In one example a programmer publishes a mobile device application for installation on client devices that accesses video content from the programmer directly for display on the mobile devices. In another example a programmer publishes a website that includes a plugin or other component that accesses video content from the programmer directly for display on client devices.

As used herein the term media content refers to time based video content audio content or some combination thereof that is playable on a television or other electronic device. In one example a video is provided over a network as a file that is saved locally on a client device for subsequent playback. In another example video is streamed over a network for playback on the client device. A variety of types of electronic devices play back the video for a user. As examples any of a television desktop computer laptop mobile phone mobile computing device tablet Internet of things device automobile electronic system or any other electronic device having display or audio capabilities to display graphics or play sound can be used to play a streamed or downloaded video.

As used herein the term user refers to a person or a device operated by the person that requests or receives downloaded or streamed videos from a programmer or multi channel media distributor. A user has a subscription with a multi channel media distributor in some embodiments. In some embodiments a user uses a mobile device with multiple apps that access publishers to receive and view videos based on subscription credentials for a multi channel media distributor that separately provides videos to the user through a separate dedicated network.

As used herein the term subscription refers to a user having an account to receive television or other videos for multiple channels from a multi channel media distributor. A subscription in some embodiments is time based. For example a user pays a monthly fee to receive television content from a multi channel media distributor cable company at the user s residence. In another embodiment the user pays a monthly fee to access videos from multiple sources through the Internet and also uses the Internet to access additional videos directly from programmers through the Internet.

As used herein the term multi channel media distributor refers to a service that distributes videos or other media content for multiple channels from one or more programmers to multiple users. A multi channel media distributor typically provides videos based on user subscriptions and to users via a dedicated network. For example a cable company provides multi channel television videos over a cable network.

As used herein the term authenticate refers to determining that a user is associated with a particular identity account or subscription maintained by a multi channel media distributor. Authenticating a user is based on a user name and password provided by the user in some embodiments.

As used herein the term authorized refers to a user having permission based on the user s identity account or subscription with a multi channel media distributor to access a particular video. In one example an authenticated user will have authorization to access some videos but not other videos.

These illustrative examples are given to introduce the reader to the general subject matter discussed here and are not intended to limit the scope of the disclosed concepts. The following sections describe various additional aspects and examples with reference to the drawings in which like numerals indicate like elements and directional descriptions are used to describe the illustrative examples but like the illustrative examples should not be used to limit the present disclosure.

Referring now to the drawings is a block diagram depicting an example of a system in which users attempt to receive video or other media content from one or more programmers over one or more data networks . In this example the user accesses the data network with user devices and the user accesses the data network with user devices . It is possible for users to use any number of devices and for each device to be shared by any number of users.

In this example the users have subscriptions to receive television or other media content from a multi channel media distributor through a dedicated network not shown . The users access media content e.g. videos on one or more of devices by contacting one or more programmers . Computing devices associated with the programmers provide the requested media content if the subscriptions of the users are authenticated and the authorization for the particular media content is confirmed with the multi channel media distributor .

In this example an entitlement service is used to authenticate the subscriptions and confirm the authorizations. The entitlement service which includes suitable program code executed by one or more processing devices communicates with the multi channel media distributor via one or more data networks . The entitlement service receives requests for media content from one or more of the programmers one or more of the user devices or both via the data network . The entitlement service transmits the requests or data derived from the requests to the multi channel media distributor which performs authentication or authorization operations for various user devices on behalf of the programmers .

In some circumstances the multi channel media distributor is unavailable or experiences reduced availability for performing these authentication or authorization functions. For example the responsiveness of the multi channel media distributor may be degraded if a high volume of user devices request authentication or authorization during high traffic events such as live events breaking news and other videos that draw a large audience. In these circumstances the entitlement service determines that temporary access should be granted to one or more of the requesting user devices 

In some embodiments the entitlement service determines that the responsiveness of the multi channel media distributor has degraded i.e. that the multi channel media distributor is experiencing reduced availability based on comparing a current responsiveness of the multi channel media distributor to a historic responsiveness of the multi channel media distributor . In one example as described herein if the multi channel media distributor fails to authenticate or authorize 50 of requests received over the last hour to provide access to media content from the programmers the entitlement service compares the 50 success rate to one or more historical success rates indicating how frequently the multi channel media distributor authenticates users or authorizes content access by authenticated users. If a historical success rate is 80 the 50 success rate over the last hour or other suitable interval indicates a lack of responsiveness by the multi channel media distributor .

In some embodiments the entitlement service generates or uses test requests e.g. artificially generated traffic to verify the responsiveness of the multi channel media distributor as described herein. For example the entitlement service communicates with a test server to generate test requests for authentication or authorization. The test server sends these test requests to the entitlement service via the data network . The test requests include test credentials which are known to be valid to verify the responsiveness of the multi channel media distributor . If the entitlement services transmits the test requests to the multi channel media distributor and the transmitted requests do not result in a successful authentication or authorization the entitlement service determines that the multi channel media distributor is experiencing reduced availability as opposed to for example simply rejecting a large number of invalid requests from users. In additional or alternative embodiments a separate test server may be omitted and the same server or computing device can execute both the entitlement service and a test service that generates test requests.

In some embodiments the entitlement service determines whether this temporary access should be continued by determining if the multi channel media distributor is available again. For example the entitlement service may request responses from multi channel media distributor after providing temporary access to user devices during a period of limited availability for the multi channel media distributor . If a response is received the entitlement service determines based on the response whether to continue allowing the programmer to provide media content or to cause the programmer to terminate the provision of the media content. For example if a response from the multi channel media distributor indicates that the user is not authorized to watch a video that is being streamed based on a temporary grant of access the entitlement service will instruct the programmer to cut off the streaming of the video.

The access enabler is executed locally on the user device . The access enabler executes in the background e.g. in a manner invisible to the user to authenticate and confirm authorization of the user for requested videos. For example the user accesses the website or application of the programmer and thereby requesting a video or other media content. The access enabler on the user device transmits based on the user requesting the video or other media content relevant user data or device data to a computing device associated with the programmer .

In the programmer receives a request in an electronic message for media content from the user device via a data network. The access enabler facilitates this communication between the user device and one or more programmers . The request identifies a name and password for the user that identify an identity account or other subscription information for the user to the multi channel media distributor . In additional or alternative embodiments other suitable credentials are used to identify the user to the multi channel media distributor . The programmer sends in an electronic message the request and credentials to the entitlement service . The programmer transmits this communication based on for example being configured to authenticate and authorize users using the entitlement service .

The entitlement service includes an authentication service an authorization service an availability service and a token service . The entitlement service uses these sub services to access the multi channel media distributor over one or more data networks. The entitlement service accesses the multi channel media distributor to authenticate users requesting content from the programmers. In some embodiments accessing the multi channel media distributor involves accessing the multi channel media distributor to authenticate that the user has a subscription with the multi channel media distributor or confirm that the user is authorized to receive the media content from one or more programmers . Additionally or alternatively the entitlement service accesses the multi channel media distributor to confirm that authenticated users are authorized to receive media content from one or more of the programmers .

In some embodiments the authentication service and the authorization service generate based on the entitlement service receiving the message an electronic message that includes a request for the multi channel media distributor to authenticate the user . For example the message may be used to request instruct or otherwise cause the multi channel media distributor to determine whether the user name and password match those of an authorized user identity account or subscription maintained by the multi channel media distributor or an accessible third party. For example transmitting the message involves accessing a login page and providing the user name and password or other suitable credentials to attempt a login.

In one example the multi channel media distributor uses an identity provider module that confirms the identity of the user with a third party identity service. In another example the multi channel media distributor uses a subscriber database to determine whether the user is an authenticated user with a subscription to the multi channel media distributor .

In some embodiments the message also identifies the video or other media content requested by the user the programmer or both. This identification allows the multi channel media distributor to determine whether the user is authorized to access the particular video or to access videos from the particular programmer . For example if a subscription for the user does not include a premium movie channel the multi channel media distributor will not authorize the user to have access to movies provided by the premium movie channel programmer .

In some embodiments the multi channel media distributor also executes business logic that includes business rules for making authentication and authorization determinations. In one example the business rules identify which videos are available for different subscription classes pay per view requirements for particular videos and other business rules useful in controlling user authentication authorization or both.

In the example shown in the availability service of the entitlement service determines that the entitlement service does not receive an immediate response to the message from the multi channel media distributor . After a predetermined amount of time passes the availability service determines that the multi channel media distributor is unable to provide a timely response. Based on this determination the entitlement service provides or otherwise facilitates temporary access for the user to media content from programmer .

In some embodiments under normal operating conditions e.g. the multi channel media distributor responding to requests from the entitlement service the entitlement service generates a token using a token service and transmits to the programmer via a data network the token in an electronic message . During these normal operating conditions the entitlement service generates the token based on receiving confirmation of authentication authorization or both from the multi channel media distributor . The programmer sends an electronic message with the token and streams or otherwise sends media content to the user device .

However if the availability service determines that the multi channel media distributor is unable to provide a timely response the entitlement service uses the token service to grant temporary access. For example the token service generates a token without the entitlement service receiving confirmation of authentication or authorization from the multi channel media distributor . In this case as depicted in the programmer sends an electronic message with the token and streams or otherwise sends the media content e.g. a video to the user device . The user is thus able to view the media content while the multi channel media distributor is unavailable.

In some embodiments the token in the message includes a time to live or other appropriate parameter based on preferences of the programmer . For example a short time to live parameter is included if the programmer desires tighter control of the video. Such control may include for example requiring the user to request access again at the conclusion of the time to live period.

After the multi channel media distributor becomes available again the multi channel media distributor transmits a subsequent message with information identifying whether the user is authenticated or authorized to access the particular media content from the particular programmer . For example since a message sent during a period of reduced availability is lost the entitlement service sends a subsequent message regarding a user s access rights e.g. a request for authentication authorization or both . The multi channel media distributor responds to the message by transmitting the message . Based on this subsequent message the entitlement service sends an electronic message to the programmer to continue access or revoke access to the media content .

The programmer based on receiving the message sends an electronic message to the device with instructions to continue access to the media content or terminate the access to the media content . In one example the message may extend the time to live on the token included in the message . In another example the message may include a new access or revocation token with parameters configured to allow the media content to continue to completion or to terminate playback of the media content . In the case of streaming of the media content the programmer will stop streaming the media content if the message indicates that access by the user to the media content should be revoked or otherwise terminated.

In some embodiments the access enabler illustrated in provides a modular solution for implementing authentication and authorization by a multi channel media distributor with sophisticated degradation capabilities in the programmer s application and website. In some embodiments the access enabler is configured to execute locally on device of the user for example as a plugin within a native application or web page provided by the programmer . The access enabler on the user device interacts with the programmer device to handle programmer configured entitlement workflows in a flexible and secure manner.

In some embodiments computing devices associated with the programmer are used to create and maintain the higher level web pages or native applications that implement a user software interface for viewing media content. Appropriate functionality is incorporated into these web pages or native applications to implement the authentication and authorization using the multi channel media distributor . The programmer in some embodiments specifies appropriate interactions using an asynchronous system of functions and callbacks defined by an Application Programming Interface API . Examples of entitlement flows that are easily implemented using such an API include but are not limited to setting the programmer identity checking or obtaining user authentication against a particular identity provider checking or obtaining user authorization for a particular video or from a particular programmer and logging out the user.

In some embodiments if the multi channel media distributor is unavailable the entitlement service is used to bypass authentication or authorization verifications by the multi channel media distributor . The entitlement service instead provides temporary access to media content by a user for a set period of time or until the multi channel media distributor is determined to again be available. The result is that the user is not blocked from accessing video content that they should otherwise absent the multi channel media distributor system unavailability be able to access. The entitlement service may determine that the multi channel media distributor is back online and then resume normal operations in which requests for authentication or confirmation are serviced by the multi channel media distributor .

In some embodiments such as the example depicted in the position of the entitlement service between multiple programmers and a multi channel media distributor allows the entitlement service to automatically identify a reduced availability of the availability of the multi channel media distributor . For example the entitlement service transmits multiple messages that include requests for the multi channel media distributor to authenticate or authorize various users access to media content provided by programmers . The entitlement service can determine how frequently these authentication or authorization requests fail. If these requests are resulting in a percentage of authentication or authorization requests that appear anomalous the entitlement service determines that the multi channel media distributor is unavailable or is at least experiencing a period of reduced availability . Based on this determination the entitlement service provides or otherwise facilitates temporary access to media content of one or more programmers by one or more user devices .

In such embodiments the entitlement service executes one or more suitable operations for determining that the multi channel media distributor is unavailable. For example is a flow chart depicting an example of a process for automatically identifying a reduced availability of a multi channel media distributor for authentication or authorization. In some embodiments one or more processing devices implement operations depicted in by executing suitable program code e.g. the entitlement service and the availability service . For illustrative purposes the process is described with reference to the examples depicted in . Other implementations however are possible.

At block the process involves receiving requests for programmers to provide media content to user devices. In some embodiments the requests received at block are live requests received from computing devices associated with the programmers . For example at least one processing device executes the entitlement service to communicate with multiple computing devices associated with programmers with multiple access enablers executed by user devices or both. The entitlement service communicates via for example one or more suitable data networks . The entitlement service receives in one or more time periods multiple requests in multiple messages from multiple programmers . Examples of how these messages are generated and transmitted to the entitlement service are described above with respect to the example depicted in .

At block the process involves transmitting the requests to a multi channel media distributor. For example at least one processing device executes one or more of the authentication service and the authorization service of the entitlement service . In the example depicted above with respect to by executing the authentication service the authorization service or both the processing device is configured to generate messages which include requests for authentication or authorization with user credentials e.g. user names and passwords provided to the entitlement service by access enablers. The entitlement service transmits the requests to the multi channel media distributor via one or more suitable data networks .

At block the process involves determining based on the transmitted requests a success rate indicating whether the multi channel media distributor has failed to authenticate user credentials included in the requests or has failed to authorize content access based on the requests. For example at least one processing device executes the availability service of the entitlement service to determine the responsiveness of the multi channel media distributor to the transmitted requests. The entitlement service determines the responsiveness based on whether the transmitted requests result in successful authentication of credentials included in the requests successful authorization of content access based on credentials included in the requests or both.

For example this can be based on the entitlement service waiting for a predetermined amount of time to pass without receiving a response. In an alternative embodiment the entitlement service determines that the multi channel media distributor is not available based on a history of communications with the multi channel media distributor statistics regarding the multi channel media distributor or both. The history or statistics include information about attempts to contact the multi channel media distributor on behalf of multiple different programmers in one embodiment. Because information for multiple programmers is used multi channel media distributor issues are identified faster and more accurately than they otherwise would be identified.

In embodiments involving live requests which are transmitted by the access enablers at programmers based on communications with access enablers at user devices the entitlement service determines the responsiveness by comparing a success rate for a recent time period with a success rate for an historical time period. For example the entitlement service stores records of received live requests in a non transitory computer readable medium using a database or other suitable data structure. The records can include time stamps for the live requests and indications of whether the multi channel media distributor authenticated users or authorized the users content access. Examples of these indications include a success flag a failure flag a time out flag or any other data describing the result of sending authentication or authorization requests to the multi channel media distributor . As described herein with respect to if a recent success rate deviates from an historical success rate the entitlement service determines that the multi channel media distributor is experiencing reduced availability.

In additional or alternative embodiments the requests used in blocks and are test requests that are generated or used for the purpose of checking the availability of the multi channel media distributor . For example a processing device can execute the entitlement service to communicate with a separate test server or a testing service executed at the same computing system as the entitlement service . The entitlement service causes the test server or a testing service to generate and send test requests with test credentials known to be valid. The entitlement service uses the test credentials to determine the availability of the multi channel media distributor as described herein with respect to .

At block the process involves identifying based on the success rate a reduced availability of the multi channel media distributor. For example at least one processing device executes the availability service of the entitlement service to identify a reduced availability of the multi channel media distributor . In some embodiments the entitlement service determines the reduced availability based on a success rate during a recent time period being below a threshold success rate determined from historical data as described herein with respect to . In other embodiments the entitlement service determines the reduced availability based on a low success rate associated with sending test requests which have credentials known to be valid to the multi channel media distributor as described herein with respect to .

At block the process involves providing the user devices with temporary access to the media content from the programmers during a period in which the reduced availability occurs. For example at least one processing device executes the token service or other suitable program code of the entitlement service to provide user devices with temporary access to media content from one or more of the programmers. Examples of the entitlement service providing temporary access to the media content are described herein with respect to .

The entitlement service uses any suitable algorithm to determine a success rate used for determining a reduced availability of the multi channel media distributor . In some embodiments determining the success rate involves at least partially using analytics data generated by the entitlement service for real time traffic between programmers and the multi channel media distributor . For example is a flow chart depicting an example of a process for determining a reduced availability of the multi channel media distributor using live requests for authentication or authorization. In some embodiments one or more processing devices implement operations depicted in by executing suitable program code e.g. the entitlement service and the availability service . For illustrative purposes the process is described with reference to the examples depicted in . Other implementations however are possible.

At block the process involves identifying a recent time period for evaluating availability of a multi channel media distributor. For example at least one processing device executes the entitlement service to identify the time period. Any suitable time period may be used by the entitlement service. In one example the entitlement service uses the most recent multi minute period e.g. the last three to five minutes .

At block the process involves identifying a percentage of successful authorizations or authentications resulting from live requests to provide media content from one or more programmers to user devices. For example at least one processing device executes the entitlement service to calculate the percentage of successful authorizations or authentications during the identified evaluation time period. In one example the entitlement service calculates the percentage of successful authorizations or authentications over a sliding window of three to five minutes.

At block the process involves accessing a threshold percentage based on historical successful authorizations or authentications resulting from historical live requests. For example at least one processing device executes the entitlement service to access the threshold percentage from a non transitory computer readable medium.

In some embodiments the entitlement service calculates the threshold percentage based on historical data. For instance the entitlement service accesses records of received live requests from a database or other suitable data structure in a non transitory computer readable medium. The records include time stamps for the live requests and indications of whether the multi channel media distributor authenticated users or authorized the users content access. Examples of these indications include a success flag a failure flag a time out flag or any other data describing the result of sending authentication or authorization requests to the multi channel media distributor . The entitlement service selects the records for a suitable historical time period e.g. the most recent month the most recent day or the most recent hour . The entitlement service calculates a percentage of the records that indicate a successful authentication or authorization.

At block the process involves determining whether the identified percentage of successful authorizations or authentications is greater than the threshold percentage. For example at least one processing device executes the entitlement service to compare the identified percentage and the threshold percentage accessed from the non transitory computer readable medium.

If the identified percentage is greater than the threshold percentage the process involves outputting an indication of normal availability for the multi channel media distributor as shown at block . For example at least one processing device executes the availability service to output an indicator of normal availability. The entitlement service based on the indicator of normal availability forwards subsequent requests for authentication or authorization e.g. the messages depicted in to the multi channel media distributor .

If the identified percentage is less than the threshold percentage the process involves outputting an indication of reduced availability for the multi channel media distributor as shown at block . For example at least one processing device executes the entitlement service to output an indicator of reduced availability. In some embodiments the entitlement service based on the indicator of reduced availability begins or continues responding to subsequent requests for authentication or authorization e.g. the messages depicted in by providing temporary access to media content from the programmers to the user devices .

In some embodiments the entitlement service uses analytics data for one or more specific programmers to determine a reduced availability of the multi channel media distributor . In one example the entitlement service may use the success rate for a given programmer at block and may use historical data for that programmer to determine the threshold percentage accessed at block . In another example the entitlement service may use the success rate for a given programmer at block and may use historical data for all programmers to determine the threshold percentage accessed at block . In other embodiments the entitlement service uses analytics data for multiple programmers and possibly all programmers at blocks to determine the reduced availability of the multi channel media distributor .

In additional or alternative embodiments determining a success rate involves at least partially using analytics data generated by the entitlement service for artificial traffic between a testing service and the multi channel media distributor via the entitlement service . For example is a flow chart depicting an example of a process for determining a reduced availability of the multi channel media distributor using test requests generated for verifying the availability of the multi channel media distributor . In some embodiments one or more processing devices implement operations depicted in by executing suitable program code e.g. the entitlement service and the availability service . For illustrative purposes the process is described with reference to the examples depicted in . Other implementations however are possible.

At block the process involves causing a test service to generate and send test requests with test authentication credentials or test authorization credentials that are valid for a multi channel media distributor. For example at least one processing device executes the entitlement service to cause the test service to generate and send the test requests. The test requests include one or more of test authentication credentials and test authorization credentials that are valid for the multi channel media distributor. In some embodiments these test credentials are generated using the entitlement service specifically for verifying the responsiveness of the multi channel media distributor and are not used by user devices . In additional or alternative embodiments these test credentials are verified user credentials associated with one or more users . For example if certain user credentials received from one or more user devices has resulted in a successful authentication or authorization within a threshold time period e.g. the most recent day the test service stores these user credentials as test credentials.

In some embodiments the test service is executed on a test server that is accessible by the entitlement service via a data network. The availability service of the entitlement service generates an instruction message for the test server to generate and transmit the test requests to the entitlement service . The entitlement service transmits the instruction message to the test server via one or more data networks . In other embodiments the test service is executed on a computing system that also executes the entitlement service . The availability service of the entitlement service instructs the test service to generate the test requests and provide the test requests to the entitlement service .

At block the process involves transmitting the test requests to the multi channel media distributor. For example at least one processing device executes the entitlement service to transmit the test requests to the multi channel media distributor . These test requests are transmitted in the same manner as live requests.

At block the process involves determining if one or more authentication or authorization failures results from transmitting the test requests to the multi channel media distributor. For example at least one processing device executes the availability service to determine whether one or more authentication or authorization failures have occurred. The availability service determines that authentication or authorization failures have occurred based on for example a specified amount of time elapsing without the entitlement service receiving a responsive message from the multi channel media distributor indicating a successful authentication or authorization. The lack of a successful authentication or authorization indicates or verifies a reduced availability of the multi channel media distributor at least because the test credentials included in the test requests are known by the entitlement service to be valid and therefore should have resulted in a successful authentication or authorization.

If transmitting the test requests does not result in one or more authentication or authorization failures the process involves outputting an indication of normal availability for the multi channel media distributor as shown at block . For example at least one processing device executes the availability service to output an indicator of normal availability. The entitlement service based on the indicator of normal availability forwards subsequent requests for authentication or authorization e.g. the messages depicted in to the multi channel media distributor .

If transmitting the test requests results in one or more authentication or authorization failures the process involves outputting an indication of reduced availability for the multi channel media distributor as shown at block . For example at least one processing device executes the entitlement service to output an indicator of reduced availability. In some embodiments the entitlement service based on the indicator of reduced availability begins or continues responding to subsequent requests for authentication or authorization e.g. the messages depicted in by providing temporary access to media content from the programmers to the user devices .

In some embodiments the entitlement service combines the operations depicted in . For example the entitlement service may first use real time traffic as depicted in to make an initial determination of reduced availability. If executing the process results in outputting an indication of reduced availability the entitlement service may then execute the process based on the indication of reduced availability being outputted. The process uses the test requests to verify whether the indication of reduced availability generated using the process resulted from a lack of responsiveness by the multi channel media distributor e.g. if the test requests result in an authentication or authorization failure or a large number of invalid live requests e.g. if the test requests result in an authentication or authorization success .

As discussed above in certain cases the entitlement service grants temporary access to media content based on determining that the multi channel media distributor is unable to respond or has experienced reduced availability. This can involve providing a token to the user that includes a time to live parameter that limits the useful life of the token and thus limits the duration of the temporary access. The entitlement service in one embodiment applies a programmer specific rule to grant the temporary access to the user to access the video from the programmer while waiting for the multi channel media distributor.

In some embodiments depending on the type of video programmer or other circumstances a system that includes the entitlement service allows authentication authorization or both to be bypassed according to particular rules. One example of these rules is an authenticate all rule that allows all users even those who have not previously authenticated with the system to be granted access for a period e.g. using a token. Another example of these rules is an authorize all rule that allows only users who have previously authenticated with the system to be granted access for a period of time. Previously authenticated users are given temporary access to all videos for a particular programmer that implements this rule. Another example of a rule is an authorize none rule that allows a programmer to identify particular channel s that users will not have access to when the multi channel media distributor is unavailable. In one example this type of channel specific control is useful to a programmer offering a basic channel and a premium access channel who implements the rule to avoid giving access to the premium access channel during multi channel media distributor unavailability.

In some embodiments degradation rules are used to control or provide temporary access to media content from one or more programmers . For example a programmer can configure the entitlement service system to implement degradation rules in a pipeline mode e.g. applying the rules one after another . As a specific example if the entitlement service has been used to grant temporary access on two sports channels in a native application provided by a given programmer the authenticate all rule is configured to take precedence and the user will not be asked to enter a user name and password when attempting to access another video using the provider s native application. The pipeline specifies rules are based on different scenarios and can be the implementation of a logical construct inside an execution block that interprets the rules. In other embodiments operations that do not use degradation rules may be used if the multi channel media distributor experiences reduced availability.

In process a request for a programmer to provide a video is received in block a multi channel media distributor is accessed to authenticate or confirm authorization in block and the process determines that the multi channel media distributor is not able to respond or is otherwise experiencing reduced availability as shown in block .

In decision block process determines whether the user has previously authenticated with the multi channel media distributor. This determination is made by a service such as entitlement service of separate from the multi channel media distributor . To make the determination the entitlement service maintains records of prior user authentications with particular multi channel media distributors for particular programmers .

If the user has previously authenticated with the multi channel media distributor the process grants temporary access to the user as shown in block . If a subsequent response is received from the multi channel media distributor the process continues access or revokes access to the media content based on the subsequent response as shown in block .

If the user has not previously authenticated with the multi channel media distributor the process does not grant access and thus withholds access to the media content while waiting for a response from the multi channel media distributor as shown in block . If a subsequent response is received from the multi channel media distributor the process grants access based on the subsequent response as shown in block .

In the process a request for a programmer to provide a video is received in block a multi channel media distributor is accessed to authenticate or confirm authorization in block and the process determines that the multi channel media distributor is not able to respond as shown in block .

In decision block the process determines whether a channel associated with the requested video is authorized or not authorized. This determination is made by an entitlement service that is separate from the multi channel media distributor. To make the determination the entitlement service maintains records of publisher channel preferences.

If the channel is authorized the process grants temporary access to the user as shown in block . If a subsequent response is received from the multi channel media distributor the process continues access or revokes access to media content based on the subsequent response as shown in block .

If the channel is not authorized the process does not grant access and thus withholds access to the media content while waiting for a response from the multi channel media distributor as shown in block . If a subsequent response is received from the multi channel media distributor the process grants access based on the subsequent response as shown in block .

In some embodiments the entitlement service executes one or more suitable algorithms for determining that the availability e.g. the responsiveness of the multi channel media distributor for authentication or authorization has been restored. For example is a flow chart depicting an example of a process for determining a restored availability of the multi channel media distributor . In some embodiments one or more processing devices implement operations depicted in by executing suitable program code e.g. the entitlement service and the availability service . For illustrative purposes the process is described with reference to the examples depicted in . Other implementations however are possible.

At block the process involves diverting first requests which are used to cause programmers associated with a multi channel media distributor to provide first media content to first user devices from reaching the multi channel media distributor. For example at least one processing device executes the entitlement service to divert the first requests. Diverting the requests involves for example determining that the requests are for the multi channel media distributor to authenticate user devices or verify that the user devices are authorized to access media content. The entitlement service prevents these requests from being transmitted to the multi channel media distributor and responds to receiving the requests by providing the associated user devices with temporary access to media content from the programmers .

At block the process involves transmitting subsequent to diverting at least some of the first requests test requests from the entitlement service to the multi channel media distributor. For example at least one processing device executes the entitlement service and thereby configures a suitable network interface device to transmit the test requests to the multi channel media distributor . The test requests include one or more of test authentication credentials and test authorization credentials that are valid for the multi channel media distributor.

In some embodiments the entitlement service causes a test service to generate and send the test requests. These test credentials are generated using the entitlement service specifically for verifying the responsiveness of the multi channel media distributor and are not used by user devices .

In some embodiments the test service is executed on a test server that is accessible by the entitlement service via a data network. The availability service of the entitlement service generates an instruction message for the test server to generate and transmit the test requests to the entitlement service . The entitlement service transmits the instruction message to the test server via one or more data networks . In other embodiments the test service is executed on a computing system that also executes the entitlement service . The availability service of the entitlement service instructs the test service to generate the test requests and provide the test requests to the entitlement service .

In additional or alternative embodiments these test credentials are user credentials associated with one or more users . For example the entitlement service receives user credentials with a first set of requests for access to media content. The entitlement service provides temporary access to the media content regardless of any authentication or authorization by the multi channel media distributor based on receiving the first set of requests. The entitlement service also selects a subset of these requests as test requests. In some embodiments this subset is selected based on the entitlement service recently receiving successful authentication or authorization messages from the multi channel media distributor in response to submitting other requests with the same user credentials. For example if a request includes credentials that successfully resulted in authentication or authorization when transmitted to the multi channel media distributor in the last day the last hour or some other threshold time period the request may be included in the selected subset of test requests. In additional or alternative embodiments the subset of requests is selected for inclusion in the test requests even if the entitlement service lacks information about the validity of credentials included in the selected requests.

At block the process involves determining that the multi channel media distributor has authenticated user credentials included in the test requests or has authorized content access based on the test requests. For example at least one processing device executes the entitlement service to determine whether transmitting the test requests to the multi channel media distributor results in receiving one or more messages from the multi channel media distributor indicating a successful authentication or authorization.

At block the process involves transmitting from the entitlement service to the multi channel media distributor second requests for the programmers to provide second media content to second user devices. The second requests are transmitted based on determining that the multi channel media distributor has authenticated the user credentials or has authorized the content access. For example at least one processing device executes the entitlement service and thereby configures a suitable network interface device to transmit the second requests to the multi channel media distributor . The second requests are generated based from communications between the programmer and the access enabler that result from a user requesting access to media content.

In some embodiments involving test requests selected from live requests the entitlement service transmits the second requests to the multi channel media distributor if a sufficient number of the test requests result in successful authentication or authorization. For example the entitlement service can execute blocks and of the process depicted in . If an output indicating normal availability is generated based on providing the test request to the multi channel media distributor the entitlement service transmits subsequently received media content requests to the multi channel media distributor . In other embodiments involving test requests with credentials known by the entitlement service to be valid the entitlement service transmits the second requests to the multi channel media distributor if the test requests result in successful authentication or authorization.

In some embodiments the second requests transmitted by the entitlement service include fewer than all requests for access to media content that are received by the entitlement service . For example subsequent to successful authentication or authorization resulting from test requests the entitlement service receives additional requests for authenticating users or providing content access for authenticated users. The entitlement service transmits a first percentage of the requests to the multi channel media distributor and diverts any other requests e.g. by continuing to provide temporary access to request media content . In some embodiments the transmitted requests are copies of requests received by the entitlement service . The entitlement service continues granting temporary access based on the request i.e. without requiring the involvement of the multi channel media distributor and uses the copies of these requests to determine whether the availability of the multi channel media distributor has been restored.

If a threshold number of the first percentage of requests or copies of the requests transmitted to the multi channel media distributor results in authentication or authorization the entitlement service transmits a second percentage of subsequent requests or copies of the requests to the multi channel media distributor where the second percentage is larger than the first percentage. If a threshold number of the second percentage of requests results in authentication or authorization the entitlement service transmits a third percentage of subsequent requests or copies of the requests to the multi channel media distributor where the third percentage is larger than the second percentage. In this manner the entitlement service iteratively decreases the number or percentage of requests being diverted and if each iteration results in a sufficient number of authentications or authorizations ceases iteration once all requests are being transmitted to the multi channel media distributor . For embodiments in which copies of received requests are transmitted to the multi channel media distributor the entitlement service ceases diverting requests i.e. relies on the multi channel media distributor when providing content access in response to a sufficient percentage of transmitted copies of requests resulting in successful authentication or authorization events.

Any suitable computing system or group of computing systems can be used for performing the operations described herein. For example is a block diagram depicting an example of a computing system that executes an entitlement service for determining an availability of a multi channel media distributor .

The depicted example of the computing system includes one or more processors communicatively coupled to one or more memory devices . The processor executes computer executable program code accesses information stored in the memory device or both. Examples of processor include a microprocessor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other suitable processing device. The processor can include any number of processing devices including one.

The memory device includes any suitable non transitory computer readable medium for storing the authentication service the authorization service the availability service and the token service . The computer readable medium can include any electronic optical magnetic or other storage device capable of providing a processor with computer readable instructions or other program code. Non limiting examples of a computer readable medium include a magnetic disk a memory chip a ROM a RAM an ASIC optical storage magnetic tape or other magnetic storage or any other medium from which a processing device can read instructions. The instructions may include processor specific instructions generated by a compiler or an interpreter from code written in any suitable computer programming language including for example C C C Visual Basic Java Python Perl JavaScript and ActionScript.

The computing system may also include a number of external or internal devices such as input or output devices. For example the computing system is shown with an input output I O interface that can receive input from input devices or provide output to output devices. A bus can also be included in the computing system . The bus can communicatively couple one or more components of the computing system .

The computing system executes program code that configures the processor to perform one or more of the operations described above with respect to . The program code includes for example one or more of the authentication service the authorization service the availability service the token service or other suitable applications that perform one or more operations described herein. The program code may be resident in the memory device or any suitable computer readable medium and may be executed by the processor or any other suitable processor. In some embodiments the program code described above and data used for determining availability of the multi channel media distributor e.g. test credentials analytics data etc. are stored in the memory device . In additional or alternative embodiments one or more of the program code described above and data used for determining availability of the multi channel media distributor e.g. test credentials analytics data etc. are stored in one or more memory devices accessible via a data network such as a memory device accessible via a cloud service.

The computing system depicted in also includes at least one network interface . The network interface includes any device or group of devices suitable for establishing a wired or wireless data connection to one or more data networks . Non limiting examples of the network interface include an Ethernet network adapter a modem and other suitable transceivers. The computing system is able to communicate with one or more online programmers one or more multi channel media distributors and in some embodiments one or more test servers using the network interface .

Numerous specific details are set forth herein to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. However those skilled in the art will understand that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances methods apparatuses or systems that would be known by one of ordinary skill have not been described in detail so as not to obscure claimed subject matter.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it is appreciated that throughout this specification discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining and identifying or the like refer to actions or processes of a computing device such as one or more computers or a similar electronic computing device or devices that manipulate or transform data represented as physical electronic or magnetic quantities within memories registers or other information storage devices transmission devices or display devices of the computing platform.

The system or systems discussed herein are not limited to any particular hardware architecture or configuration. A computing device can include any suitable arrangement of components that provides a result conditioned on one or more inputs. Suitable computing devices include multipurpose microprocessor based computer systems accessing stored software that programs or configures the computing system from a general purpose computing apparatus to a specialized computing apparatus implementing one or more embodiments of the present subject matter. Any suitable programming scripting or other type of language or combinations of languages may be used to implement the teachings contained herein in software to be used in programming or configuring a computing device.

Embodiments of the methods disclosed herein may be performed in the operation of such computing devices. The order of the blocks presented in the examples above can be varied for example blocks can be re ordered combined and or broken into sub blocks. Certain blocks or processes can be performed in parallel.

The use of adapted to or configured to herein is meant as open and inclusive language that does not foreclose devices adapted to or configured to perform additional tasks or steps. Additionally the use of based on is meant to be open and inclusive in that a process step calculation or other action based on one or more recited conditions or values may in practice be based on additional conditions or values beyond those recited. Headings lists and numbering included herein are for ease of explanation only and are not meant to be limiting.

While the present subject matter has been described in detail with respect to specific embodiments thereof it will be appreciated that those skilled in the art upon attaining an understanding of the foregoing may readily produce alterations to variations of and equivalents to such embodiments. Accordingly it should be understood that the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of example rather than limitation and does not preclude inclusion of such modifications variations and or additions to the present subject matter as would be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art.

