---

title: Multi-degrees-of-freedom hand controller
abstract: Disclosed is a controller including a first control member, a second control member that extends from a portion of the first control member, and a controller processor that is operable to produce a rotational movement output signal in response to movement of the first control member, and a translational movement output signal in response to movement of the second control member relative to the first control member. The rotational movement output signal may be any of a pitch movement output signal, a yaw movement output signal, and a roll movement output signal, and the translational movement output signal may be any of an x-axis movement output signal, a y-axis movement output signal, and a z-axis movement output signal. In exemplary embodiments, the first control member may be gripped and moved using a single hand, and the second control member may be moved using one or more digits of the single hand, thus permitting highly intuitive, single-handed control of multiple degrees of freedom, to and including, all six degrees of rotational and translational freedom without any inadvertent cross-coupling inputs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09547380&OS=09547380&RS=09547380
owner: Fluidity Technologies, Inc.
number: 09547380
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160316
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 797 184 filed Mar. 12 2013 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 642 118 filed on May 3 2012 the entire contents of which is specifically incorporated herein by express reference thereto.

The present disclosure relates generally to control systems and more particularly to a controller that provides a user with the ability to send navigation signals for up to six independent degrees of freedom without cross coupling using a controller that is operable with a single hand. In some embodiments the controller is operable to decouple translational motion from attitude adjustment.

A controller includes a a first control member b a second control member extending from a portion of the first control member and c a controller processor coupled to the first control member and the second control member wherein the controller processor is operable to produce a rotational movement output signal in response to movement of the first control member wherein the controller processor is operable to produce a translational movement output signal in response to movement of the second control member relative to the first control member. In an embodiment the controller processor is operable to produce one or more of a pitch movement output signal in response to a first predetermined movement of the first control member a yaw movement output signal in response to a second predetermined movement of the first control member and a roll movement output signal in response to a third predetermined movement of the first control member. In an embodiment the controller processor is operable to produce one or more of an x axis movement output signal in response to a first predetermined movement of the second control member a y axis movement output signal in response to a second predetermined movement of the second control member and a z axis movement output signal in response to a third predetermined movement of the second control member. In an embodiment the controller processor is operable to produce at least two different types of rotational movement output signals in response to movement of the first control member and wherein the controller processor is operable to produce at least two different types of translational movement output signals in response to movement of the second control member relative to the first control member. Furthermore in some embodiments the controller processor is operable to produce output signals for movement in one degree of freedom to six degrees of freedom simultaneously e.g. three rotational movement output signals and three translational movement output signals . In an embodiment the controller processor is operable to produce at least three different types of rotational movement output signals in response to movement of the first control member and wherein the controller processor is operable to produce at least three different types of translational movement output signals in response to movement of the second control member relative to the first control member. In an embodiment the first control member is configured to be gripped and moved using a single hand and wherein the second control member is configured to be moved using one or more digits on the single hand. In an embodiment the one or more digits include the thumb. In an embodiment the first control member is moveably coupled to a base and wherein the controller processor is operable to produce the rotational movement output signal in response to movement of the first control member relative to the base. In an embodiment the first control member comprises at least one motion sensor and wherein the controller processor is operable to produce the rotational movement output signal in response to movement of the first control member in space that is detected by the at least one motion sensor. In an embodiment a control button is located on the first control member. Furthermore multi function switches trim control and or other functional switches and controls may be added to either of the first control member and or the second control member.

A computer system includes a a processor b a non transitory computer readable medium coupled to the processor and including instruction that when executed by the processor cause the processor to provide a control program and c a user input device coupled to the processor the user input device comprising i a first control member wherein movement of the first control member causes the processor to provide one of a plurality of rotational movement instructions in the control program and ii a second control member extending from a portion of the first control member wherein movement of the second control member causes the processor to provide one of a plurality of translational movement instructions in the control program. In an embodiment a first predetermined movement of the first control member causes the processor to provide a pitch movement instruction in the control program a second predetermined movement of the first control member causes the processor to provide a yaw movement instruction in the control program and a third predetermined movement of the first control member cause the processor to provide a roll movement instruction in the control program. In an embodiment a first predetermined movement of the second control member causes the processor to provide an x axis movement instruction in the control program a second predetermined movement of the second control member causes the processor to provide a y axis movement instruction in the control program and a third predetermined movement of the second control member causes the processor to provide a z axis movement instruction in the control program. In an embodiment the first control member is configured to be gripped and moved using a single hand and wherein the second control member is configured to be moved using one or more digits on the single hand. In an embodiment the one or more digits includes the thumb. In an embodiment the first control member is moveably coupled to a base and wherein movement of the first control member relative to the base causes the processor to provide the one of a plurality of rotational movement instructions in the control program. In an embodiment the first control member comprises at least one motion sensor and wherein movement of the first control member in space that is detected by the at least one motion sensor causes the processor to provide the one of a plurality of translational movement instructions in the control program.

A control method includes a providing a controller including a first control member and a second control member extending from a portion of the first control member b sending a rotational movement output signal in response to moving the first control member and c sending a translational movement output signal in response to moving the second control member relative to the first control member. In an embodiment the sending the rotational movement output signal in response to moving the first control member includes sending a pitch movement output signal in response to a first predetermined movement of the first control member sending a yaw movement output signal in response to a second predetermined movement of the first control member and sending a roll movement output signal in response to a third predetermined movement of the first control member. In an embodiment the sending the translational movement output signal in response to moving the second control member relative to the first control member includes sending an x axis movement output signal in response to a first predetermined movement of the second control member sending a y axis movement output signal in response to a second predetermined movement of the second control member and sending a z axis movement output signal in response to a third predetermined movement of the second control member. In an embodiment the moving the first control member includes gripping and moving the first control member using a single hand and wherein the moving the second control member relative to the first control member includes moving the second control member using a thumb on the single hand. In an embodiment the sending the rotational movement output signal in response to moving the first control member includes detecting the movement of the first control member about a moveable coupling on a base. In an embodiment the sending the rotational movement output signal in response to moving the first control member includes detecting the movement of the first control member in space using at least one motion sensor.

A method for performing a medical procedure includes controlling one or more medical instruments using the controller described above. In an embodiment the medical procedure includes one or more of laparoscopic surgery natural orifice surgery minimally invasive surgery prenatal surgery intrauterine surgery microscopic surgery interventional radiology interventional cardiology endoscopy cystoscopy bronchoscopy and colonoscopy. In an embodiment the medical procedure utilizes one or more of Hansen robotic control Da Vinci robotic control three dimensional image guidance and four dimensional image guidance.

A method for controlling a vehicle includes controlling one or more vehicle subsystems using the controller described above. In an embodiment the vehicle includes one or more of an unmanned aerial vehicle an unmanned submersible vehicle a heavy mechanized vehicle a piloted aircraft a helicopter a spacecraft a spacecraft docking system and a general aviation system.

A method for controlling a military system includes controlling one or more military subsystems using the controller described above. In an embodiment the military system includes one or more of a weapons targeting system counter improvised explosive device system an air to air refueling system and an explosives handling system.

A method for controlling an industrial system includes controlling one or more industrial subsystems using the controller described above. In an embodiment the industrial system includes one or more of an oil exploration system an overhead crane a cherry picker a boom lift a basket crane an industrial lift a firefighting system a dangerous materials handling system including without limitation nuclear or biological materials handling systems a metallurgical handling or foundry system a steel or metals manufacturing system a high temperature handling or processing system an explosives or ordinance handling system and a waste management system.

A method for controlling a consumer device system includes controlling one or more consumer device subsystems using the controller described above. In an embodiment the consumer device system includes one or more of a consumer electronics device a video game console a three dimensional computer navigation system a radio controlled vehicle and a three dimensional computer aided drafting system.

In the drawings and description that follows the drawings are not necessarily to scale. Certain features of the invention may be shown exaggerated in scale or in somewhat schematic form and some details of conventional elements may not be shown in the interest of clarity and conciseness. The present disclosure is susceptible to embodiments of different forms. Specific embodiments are described in detail and are shown in the drawings with the understanding that the present disclosure is to be considered an exemplification of the principles of the invention and is not intended to limit the invention to that illustrated and described herein. It is to be fully recognized that the different teachings of the embodiments discussed below may be employed separately or in any suitable combination to produce desired results. The various characteristics mentioned above as well as other features and characteristics described in more detail below will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art upon reading the following description of illustrative embodiments of the invention and by referring to the drawings that accompany the specification.

Conventionally multiple discrete controllers are utilized to allow a user to control a control target having more than three degrees of freedom. Furthermore multiple discrete controllers have been required for any conventional control system that controls a control target having six degrees of freedom. For example a set of independent controllers e.g. joysticks control columns cyclic sticks foot pedals and or other independent controllers as may be known by one or more of ordinary skill in the art may be provided to receive a variety of different rotational parameters e.g. pitch yaw and roll from a user for a control target e.g. an aircraft submersible vehicles spacecraft a control target in a virtual environment and or a variety of other control targets as may be known by one or more of ordinary skill in the art while a set of independent controllers may be provided to control other navigational parameters such as translation e.g. x y and z axis movement in a three dimensional 3D space velocity acceleration and or a variety of other navigational parameters as may be known by one or more of ordinary skill in the art.

The present disclosure describes several embodiments of a control system that allows a user to control a control target in six DOF 6 DOF using a single controller. In one embodiment a unified hand controller may include a first control member for receiving rotational inputs e.g. pitch yaw and roll and a second control member that extends from the first control member and that is for receiving translational inputs e.g. movement along x y and z axes . As described in further detail below the first control member and the second control member on the unified hand controller may be repositioned by a user using a single hand to control the control target in 6 DOF.

Referring initially to an embodiment of a control system is illustrated. The embodiment of the control system illustrated and described below is directed to a control system for controlling a control target in 6 DOF. The control system includes a controller that is coupled to a signal conversion system that is further coupled to a control target . In an embodiment the control target may include end effectors e.g. the end of a robotic forceps a robotic arm and effector with snarks camera field of views e.g. including a camera center field of view and zoom vehicle velocity vectors etc. While the controller and the signal conversion system are illustrated separately one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that some or all of the controller and the signal conversion system may be combined without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. The controller includes a first control member and a second control member that is located on the first control member . A controller processor is coupled to each of the first control member and the second control member . In an embodiment the controller processor may be a central processing unit a programmable logic controller and or a variety of other processors as may be known by one or more of ordinary skill in the art. The controller processor is also coupled to each of a rotational module a translation module and a transmitter . While not illustrated or described in any further detail other connections and coupling may exist between the first control member the second control member the controller processor the rotation module the translation module and the transmitter while remaining within the scope of the present disclosure. Furthermore components of the controller may be combined or substituted with other components as may be known by one or more of ordinary skill in the art while remaining with the scope of the present disclosure.

The signal conversion system in the control system includes a transceiver that may couple to the transmitter in the controller through a wired connection a wireless connection and or a variety of other connections as may be known by one or more of ordinary skill in the art. A conversion processor is coupled to the transceiver a control module and configuration parameters that may be included on a memory a storage device and or other computer readable mediums as may be known by one or more of ordinary skill in the art. In an embodiment the conversion processor may be a central processing unit a programmable logic controller and or a variety of other processors known to those of ordinary skill in the art. While not illustrated or described in any further detail other connections and coupling may exist between the transceiver the conversion processor the control module and the configuration parameters while remaining within the scope of the present disclosure. Furthermore components of the signal conversion system may be combined or substituted with other components as may be known by one or more of ordinary skill in the art while remaining with the scope of the present disclosure. The control module may be coupled to the control target through a wired connection a wireless connection and or a variety of other connections as may be known by one or more of ordinary skill in the art.

In an embodiment the controller is configured to receive input from a user through the first control member and or the second control member and transmit a signal based on the input. For example the controller may be provided as a joystick for navigating in a virtual environment e.g. in a video game on a real world simulator as part of a remote control virtual real world control system and or in a variety of other virtual environments as may be known by one or more of ordinary skill in the art. In another example the controller may be provided as a control stick for controlling a vehicle e.g. an aircraft a submersible a spacecraft and or a variety of other vehicles as may be known by one or more of ordinary skill in the art . In another example the controller may be provided as a control stick for controlling a robot or other non vehicle device e.g. a surgical device an assembly device and or variety of other non vehicle devices known to one of ordinary skill in the art .

In the embodiment discussed in further detail below the controller includes a control stick as the first control member that is configured to be repositioned by the user. The repositioning of the control stick first control member allows the user to provide rotational inputs using the first control member that include pitch inputs yaw inputs and roll inputs and causes the controller processor to output rotational movement output signals including pitch movement output signals a yaw movement output signals and roll movement output signals. In particular tilting the control stick first control member forward and backward may provide the pitch input that produces the pitch movement output signal rotating the control stick first control member left and right about its longitudinal axis may provide the yaw input that produces the yaw movement output signal and tilting the control stick first control member side to side may provide the roll input that produces the roll movement output signal. As discussed below the movement output signals that result from the repositioning of the first control member may be reconfigured from that discussed above such that similar movements of the first control member to those discussed above result in different inputs and movement output signals e.g. tilting the control stick first control member side to side may be configured to provide the yaw input that produces the yaw movement output signal while rotating the control stick first control member about its longitudinal axis may be configured provide the roll input that produces the roll movement output signal. 

Rotational inputs using the control stick first control member may be detected and or measured using the rotational module . For example the rotational module may include displacement detectors for detecting the displacement of the control stick first control member from a starting position as one or more of the pitch inputs yaw inputs and roll inputs discussed above. Displacement detectors may include photo detectors for detecting light beams rotary and or linear potentiometers inductively coupled coils physical actuators gyroscopes switches transducers and or a variety of other displacement detectors as may be known by one or more of ordinary skill in the art. In some embodiments the rotational module may include accelerometers for detecting the displacement of the control stick first control member from a starting position in space. For example the accelerometers may each measure the proper acceleration of the control stick first control member with respect to an inertial frame of reference.

In other embodiments inputs using the control stick first control member may be detected and or measured using breakout switches transducers and or direct switches for each of the three ranges of motion e.g. front to back side to side and rotation about a longitudinal axis of the control stick first control member . For example breakout switches may be used to detect when the control stick first control member is initially moved e.g. 2 from a null position for each range of rotation transducers may provide a signal that is proportional to the displacement of the control stick first control member for each range of motion and direct switches may detect when the control stick first control member is further moved e.g. 12 from the null position for each range of motion. The breakout switches and direct switches may also allow for acceleration of the control stick first control member to be detected. In an embodiment redundant detectors and or switches may be provided in the controller to ensure that the control system is fault tolerant.

In the embodiment discussed in further detail below the second control member extends from a top distal portion of the control stick first control member and is configured to be repositioned by the user independently from and relative to the control stick first control member . The repositioning of the second control member discussed below allows the user to provide translational inputs using the second control member that include x axis inputs y axis inputs and z axis inputs and causes the control processor to output a translational movement output signals including x axis movement output signals y axis movement output signals and z axis movement output signals. For example tilting the second control member forward and backward may provide the x axis input that produces the x axis movement output signal tilting the second control member side to side may provide the y axis input that produces the y axis movement output signal and moving the second control member up and down may provide the z axis input that produces the z axis movement output signal. As discussed below the signals that result from the repositioning of the second control member may be reconfigured from that discussed above such that similar movements of the second control member to those discussed above result in different inputs and movement output signals e.g. tilting the second control member forward and backward may be configured to provide the z axis input that produces the z axis movement output signal while moving the second control member up and down may be configured to provide the x axis input that produces the x axis movement output signal. In an embodiment the second control member is configured to be repositioned solely by a thumb of the user while the user is gripping the control stick first control member with the hand that includes that thumb.

Translational inputs using the second control member may be detected and or measured using the translation module . For example the translation module may include translational detectors for detecting the displacement of the second control member from a starting position as one or more of the x axis inputs y axis inputs and z axis inputs discussed above. Translation detectors may include physical actuators translational accelerometers and or a variety of other translation detectors as may be known by one or more of ordinary skill in the art e.g. many of the detectors and switches discussed above for detecting and or measuring rotational input may be repurposed for detecting and or measuring translation input. 

In an embodiment the controller processor of the controller is configured to generate control signals to be transmitted by the transmitter . As discussed above the controller processor may be configured to generate a control signal based on one or more rotational inputs detected and or measured by the rotational module and or one or more translational inputs detected and or measured by the translation module . Those control signal generated by the controller processor may include parameters defining movement output signals for one or more of 6 DOF i.e. pitch yaw roll movement along an x axis movement along a y axis movement along a z axis . In several embodiments a discrete control signal type e.g. yaw output signals pitch output signals roll output signals x axis movement output signals y axis movement output signals and z axis movement output signals is produced for each discrete predefined movement e.g. first control member movement for providing pitch input first control member movement for providing yaw input first control member movement for providing roll input second control member movement for providing x axis input second control member movement for providing y axis input and second control member movement for providing z axis input that produces that discrete control signal. Beyond 6 DOF control discrete features such as ON OFF trim and other multi function commands may be transmitted to the control target. Conversely data or feedback may be received on the controller e.g. an indicator such as an LED may be illuminated green to indicate the controller is on. 

In an embodiment the transmitter of the controller is configured to transmit the control signal through a wired or wireless connection. For example the control signal may be one or more of a radio frequency RF signal an infrared IR signal a visible light signal and or a variety of other control signals as may be known by one or more of ordinary skill in the art. In some embodiments the transmitter may be a BLUETOOTH transmitter configured to transmit the control signal as an RF signal according to the BLUETOOTH protocol BLUETOOTH is a registered trademark of the Bluetooth Special Interest Group a privately held not for profit trade association headquartered in Kirkland Wash. USA .

In an embodiment the transceiver of the signal conversion system is configured to receive the control signal transmitted by the transmitter of the controller through a wired or wireless connection discussed above and provide the received control signal to the conversion processor of the signal conversion system .

In an embodiment the conversion processor is configured to process the control signals received from the controller . For example the conversion processor may be coupled to a computer readable medium including instructions that when executed by the conversion processor cause the conversion processor to provide a control program that is configured to convert the control signal into movement commands and use the control module of the signal conversion system to control the control target according to the movement commands. In an embodiment the conversion processor may convert the control signal into movement commands for a virtual three dimensional 3D environment e.g. a virtual representation of surgical patient a video game a simulator and or a variety of other virtual 3D environments as may be known by one or more of ordinary skill in the art . Thus the control target may exist in a virtual space and the user may be provided a point of view or a virtual representation of the virtual environment from a point of view inside the control target i.e. the control system may include a display that provides the user a point of view from the control target in the virtual environment . In another example the control target may be a physical device such as a robot an end effector a surgical tool a lifting system etc. and or a variety of steerable mechanical devices including without limitation vehicles such as unmanned or remotely piloted vehicles e.g. drones manned unmanned or remotely piloted vehicles and land craft manned unmanned or remotely piloted aircraft manned unmanned or remotely piloted watercraft manned unmanned or remotely piloted submersibles as well as manned unmanned or remotely piloted space vehicles rocketry satellites and such like.

In an embodiment the control module of the signal conversion system is configured to control movement of the control target based on the movement commands provided from the control program in signal conversion system . In some embodiments if the control target is in a virtual environment the control module may include an application programming interface API for moving a virtual representation or point of view within the virtual environment. API s may also provide the control module with feedback from the virtual environment such as for example collision feedback. In some embodiments feedback from the control target may allow the control module to automatically adjust the movement of the control target to for example avoid a collision with a designated region e.g. objects in a real or virtual environment critical regions of a real or virtual patient etc. . In other embodiments if the control target is a physical device the control module may include one or more controllers for controlling the movement of the physical device. For example the signal conversion system may be installed on board a vehicle and the control module may include a variety of physical controllers for controlling various propulsion and or steering mechanisms of the vehicle.

In an embodiment the signal conversion system includes operating parameters for use by the conversion processor when generating movement commands using the signals from the controller . Operating parameters may include but are not limited to gains i.e. sensitivity rates of onset i.e. lag deadbands i.e. neutral limits i.e. maximum angular displacement and or a variety of other operating parameters as may be known by one or more of ordinary skill in the art. In an embodiment the gains of the first control member and the second control member may be independently defined by a user. In this example the second control member may have increased sensitivity compared to the control stick first control member to compensate for example for the second control member having a smaller range of motion that the control stick first control member . Similarly the rates of onset for the first control member and the second control member may be defined independently to determine the amount of time that should pass i.e. lag before a repositioning of the first control member and the second control member should be converted to actual movement of the control target . The limits and deadbands of the first control member and the second control member may be independently defined as well by calibrating the neutral and maximal positions of each.

In an embodiment operating parameters may also define how signals sent from the controller in response to the different movements of the first control member and the second control member are translated into movement commands that are sent to the control target. As discussed above particular movements of the first control member may produce pitch yaw and roll rotational movement output signals while particular movements of the second control member may produce x axis y axis and z axis translational movement output signals. In an embodiment the operating parameters may define which movement commands are sent to the control target in response to movements and resulting movement output signals from the first control member and second control member

In some embodiments the operating parameters may be received from an external computing device not shown operated by the user. For example the external computing device may be preconfigured with software for interfacing with the controller and or the signal conversion system . In other embodiments the operating parameters may be input directly by a user using a display screen included with the controller or the signal conversion system . For example the first control member and or second control member may be used to navigate a configuration menu for defining the operating parameters

Referring now to and an illustrative embodiment of an exemplary controller is shown. In an embodiment the controller may be the controller discussed above with reference to . The controller includes a base including a first control member mount that extends from the base and defines a first control member mount cavity . The base may be mounted to a support using for example apertures that are located in a spaced apart orientation about the circumference of the base and that may be configured to accept a fastening member such as a screw. Alternatively a dovetail fitting with a guide installation and release or other mechanical magnetic or other adhesive fixation mechanism known in the art may be utilized. A first control member which may be the first control member discussed above with reference to is coupled to the base through a base coupling member that is positioned in the first control member mount cavity as illustrated in . While in the illustrated embodiment the coupling between the base coupling member and first control member mount is shown and described as a ball joint coupling one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that a variety of other couplings between the base and the first control member will fall within the scope of the present disclosure. In an embodiment a resilient member such as for example a spring may be positioned between the first control member and the base in the first control member mount cavity in order to provide resilient movement up or down along the longitudinal axis of the first control member . Furthermore a resilient member may be provided opposite the base coupling member from the resilient member in order to limit upward movement of the first control member . Furthermore as can be seen in and the entrance to the first control member mount cavity may be smaller than the base coupling member such that the first control member is secured to the base .

The first control member includes an elongated first section that extends from the base coupling member . The first control member also includes a grip portion that is coupled to the first section of the first control member opposite the first section from the base coupling member . The grip portion of the first control member includes a top surface that is located opposite the grip portion from the first section of of the first control member . In the illustrated embodiments the top surface of the grip portion is also a top surface of the first control member . The grip portion defines a second control member mount cavity that extends into the grip portion from the top surface . A control button is located on the first control member at the junction of the first section and the grip portion . While a single control button is illustrated one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that a plurality of control buttons may be provided at different locations on the first control member without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

A second control member which may be the second control member discussed above with reference to is coupled to the first control member through a first control member coupling member that is positioned in the second control member mount cavity as illustrated in . While in the illustrated embodiment the coupling between the first control member coupling member and first control member is shown and described as a ball joint coupling one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that a variety of other couplings between the first control member and the second control member will fall within the scope of the present disclosure. In an embodiment a resilient member such as for example a spring may be positioned between the second control member and the first control member in the second control member mount cavity in order to provide resilient movement up or down in a direction that is generally perpendicular to the top surface of the grip portion . Furthermore as can be seen in and the entrance to the second control member mount cavity may be smaller than the first control member coupling member such that the second control member is secured to and extends from the first control member .

The second control member includes a support portion that extends from the first control member coupling member . The second control member also includes an actuation portion that is coupled to the support portion of the first control member opposite the support portion the first control member coupling member . In the illustrated embodiments the actuation portion of the second control member defines a thumb channel that extends through the actuation portion of the second control member . While a specific actuation portion is illustrated one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the actuation portion may have a different structure and include a variety of other features while remaining within the scope of the present disclosure.

In the illustrated embodiment the second control member of the controllers and or is positioned on the top surface of the apical grip portion . The apical grip portion for the index finger to wrap around and or the distal group section for the third through fifth fingers to wrap around of the first control member are configured to be grasped by a hand of a user to allow for repositioning of the first control member e.g. about its coupling to the base for the controller or in space for the controller to provide the rotational inputs as discussed above. The second control member is configured to be engaged by a thumb of the hand of the user e.g. through the thumb channel that is grasping the apical grip portion and or the distal grip section of the first control member to allow the thumb to reposition the second control member about its coupling to the first control member to provide the translational inputs discussed above. In the illustrated embodiment the thumb channel enhances the ability of a user to reposition the second control member up and down i.e. generally perpendicular to the top surface of the grip portion using the thumb in addition to providing a full range of motion in a two dimensional plane e.g. forward backwards left right that is parallel with the top surface of the grip portion of the first control member .

Referring now to and a method for controlling a control target is illustrated. As is the case with the other methods described herein various embodiments may not include all of the steps described below may include additional steps and may sequence the steps differently. Accordingly the specific arrangement of steps shown in should not be construed as limiting the scope of controlling the movement of a control target.

The method begins at block where an input is received from a user. As illustrated in a user may grasp the first control member with a hand while extending a thumb through the thumb channel defined by the second control member . Furthermore the user may position a finger over the control button . One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that while a specific embodiment having the second control member positioned for thumb actuation and control button for finger actuation are illustrated other embodiments that include repositioning of the second control member e.g. for actuation by a finger other than the thumb repositioning of the control button e.g. for actuation by a finger other than the finger illustrated in additional control buttons and a variety of other features will fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

In an embodiment the input from the user at block of the method may include rotational inputs i.e. a yaw input a pitch input and a roll input and translational inputs i.e. movement along an x axis a y axis and or a z axis that are provided by the user using for example the controllers or . The user may reposition the first control member to provide the rotational inputs and reposition the second control member to provide the translational inputs. As illustrated in the controller is unified in that it is capable of being operated by a single hand of the user. In other words the controller allows the user to simultaneously provide rotational and translational inputs with a single hand without cross coupling inputs i.e. the inputs to the controller are pure . As discussed above the rotational and translational input may be detected using various devices such as photo detectors for detecting light beams rotary and or linear potentiometers inductively coupled coils physical actuators gyroscopes accelerometers and a variety of other devices as may be known by one or more of ordinary skill in the art. A specific example of movements of the first control member and the second control member and their results on the control target are discussed below but as discussed above any movements of the first control member and the second control member may be reprogrammed or repurposed to the desires of the user including reprogramming references frames by swapping the coordinate systems based on the desires of a user and thus the discussion below is merely exemplary of one embodiment of the present disclosure.

As illustrated in and the user may use his her hand to move the first control member back and forth along a line A e.g. on its coupling to the base for the controller by tilting the grip portion of the first control member along the line A relative to the bottom portion of the first control member for the controller in order to provide pitch inputs to the controller or . As illustrated in and the user may use his her hand to rotate the first control member back and forth about its longitudinal axis on an arc B e.g. on its coupling to the base for the controller by rotating the grip portion of the first control member in space for the controller in order to provide yaw inputs to the controller or . As illustrated in and the user may use their hand to move the first control member side to side along a line C e.g. on its coupling to the base for the controller by tiling the grip portion of the first control member along the line B relative to the bottom portion of the first control member for the controller in order to provide roll inputs to the controller or . Furthermore additional inputs may be provided using other features of the controller . For example the resilient member may provide a neutral position of the first control member such that compressing the resilient member using the first control member provides a first input and extending the resilient member using the first control member provides a second input.

As illustrated in and the user may use the thumb to move the second control member forwards and backwards along a line E e.g. on its coupling to the first control member in order to provide x axis inputs to the controller or . As illustrated in and the user may use the thumb to move the second control member back and forth along a line D e.g. on its coupling to the first control member in order to provide y axis inputs to the controller or . As illustrated in and and the user may use the thumb to move the second control member up and down along a line F e.g. on its coupling to the first control member including in some embodiments with resistance from the resilient member in order to provide z axis inputs to the controller or . In an embodiment the resilient member may provide a neutral position of the second control member such that compressing the resilient member using the second control member provides a first z axis input for z axis movement of the control target in a first direction and extending the resilient member using the second control member provides a second z axis input for z axis movement of the control target in a second direction that is opposite the first direction.

The method then proceeds to block where a control signal is generated based on the user input received in block and then transmitted. As discussed above the controller processor and the rotational module may generate rotational movement output signals in response to detecting and or measuring the rotational inputs discussed above and the control processor and the translation module may generate translational movement output signals in response to detecting and or measuring the translation inputs discussed above. Furthermore control signals may include indications of absolute deflection or displacement of the control members rate of deflection or displacement of the control members duration of deflection or displacement of the control members variance of the control members from a central deadband and or a variety of other control signals known in the art. For example control signals may be generated based on the rotational and or translational input or inputs according to the BLUETOOTH protocol. Once generated the control signals may be transmitted as an RF signal by an RF transmitter according to the BLUETOOTH protocol. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that an RF signal may be generated and transmitted according to a variety of other RF protocols such as the ZIGBEE protocol the Wireless USB protocol etc. In other examples the control signal may be transmitted as an IR signal a visible light signal or as some other signal suitable for transmitting the control information. ZIGBEE is a registered trademark of the ZigBee Alliance an association of companies headquartered in San Ramon Calif. USA .

The method then proceeds to block where a transceiver receives a signal generated and transmitted by the controller. In an embodiment the transceiver of the signal conversion system receives the control signal generated and transmitted by the controller . In an embodiment in which the control signal is an RF signal the transceiver includes an RE sensor configured to receive a signal according to the appropriate protocol e.g. BLUETOOTH ZIGBEE Wireless USB etc. .

In other embodiments the control signal may be transmitted over a wired connection. In this case the transmitter of the controller and the transceiver of the signal conversion system may be physically connected by a cable such as a universal serial bus USB cable serial cable parallel cable proprietary cable etc.

The method then proceeds to block where control program provided by the conversion processor of the signal conversion system commands movement based on the control signals received in block . In an embodiment the control program may convert the control signals to movement commands that may include rotational movement instructions and or translational movement instructions based on the rotational movement output signals and or translational movement output signals in the control signals. Other discrete features such as ON OFF camera zoom share capture and so on can also be relayed. For example the movement commands may specify parameters for defining the movement of the control target in one or more DOF. Using the example discussed above if the user uses their hand to move the first control member back and forth along a line A illustrated in and the resulting control signal may be used by the control program to generate a movement command including a pitch movement instruction for modifying a pitch of the control target . If the user uses their hand to rotate the first control member back and forth about its longitudinal axis about an arc B illustrated in and the resulting control signal may be used by the control program to generate a movement command including a yaw movement instruction for modifying a yaw of the control target . If the user uses their hand to move the first control member side to side along a line C illustrated in and the resulting control signal may be used by the control program to generate a movement command including a roll movement instruction for modifying a roll of the control target .

Furthermore if the user uses their thumb to move the second control member forward and backwards along a line E illustrated in and the resulting control signal may be used by the control program to generate a movement command including an x axis movement instruction for modifying the position of the control target along an x axis. If the user uses their thumb to move the second control member back and forth along a line E illustrated in and the resulting control signal may be used by the control program to generate a movement command including a y axis movement instruction for modifying the position of the control target along a y axis. If the user uses their thumb to move the second control member side to side along a line D illustrated in and the resulting control signal may be used by the control program to generate a movement command including a z axis movement instruction for modifying the position of the control target along a z axis.

The method then proceeds to block where the movement of the control target is performed based on the movement commands. In an embodiment a point of view or a virtual representation of the user may be moved in a virtual environment based on the movement commands at block of the method . In another embodiment an end effector a propulsion mechanism and or a steering mechanism of a vehicle may be actuated based on the movement commands at block of the method .

Furthermore if the user uses his her thumb to move the second control member forward and backwards along a line E illustrated in and the movement command resulting from the control signal generated will cause the control target to move along a line EE i.e. its x axis illustrated in and . If the user uses his her thumb to move the second control member side to side along a line D illustrated in and the movement command resulting from the control signal generated will cause the control target to move along a line DD i.e. its y axis illustrated in and . If the user uses his her thumb to move the second control member back and forth along a line F illustrated in and the movement command resulting from the control signal generated will cause the control target to move along a line FF i.e. its z axis illustrated in and . In some embodiments the control button and or other control buttons on the controller or may be used to for example actuate other systems in the control target e.g. weapons systems. 

Furthermore if the user uses his her thumb to move the second control member forwards and backwards along a line E illustrated in and the movement command resulting from the control signal generated will cause the tool member or end effector to move along a line EEE i.e. its x axis illustrated in . If the user uses his her thumb to move the second control member back and forth along a line E illustrated in and the movement command resulting from the control signal generated will cause the control target to move along a line EEE i.e. its y axis through the joint illustrated in . If the user uses his her thumb to move the second control member side to side along a line D illustrated in and the movement command resulting from the control signal generated will cause the tool member or end effector to move along a line DDD i.e. its z axis illustrated in . In some embodiments the control button and or other control buttons on the controller or may be used to for example perform actions using the tool member . Furthermore one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the tool member or end effector illustrated in may be replaced or supplemented with a variety of tool members e.g. surgical instruments and the like without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. As discussed above the control target may include a camera on or adjacent the tool member or end effector to provide a field of view to allow navigation to a target.

Referring now to a method for controlling a control target is illustrated. As is the case with the other methods described herein various embodiments may not include all of the steps described below may include additional steps and may sequence the steps differently. Accordingly the specific arrangement of steps shown in should not be construed as limiting the scope of controlling the movement of a control target.

The method may begin at block where rotational input is received from a user. The user may provide rotational input by repositioning the first control member of the controller or similarly as discussed above. In some embodiments the rotational input may be manually detected by a physical device such as an actuator. In other embodiments the rotational input may be electrically detected by a sensor such as an accelerometer.

The method may proceed simultaneously with block where translational input is received from the user. The user may provide translational input by repositioning the second control member of the controller or similarly as discussed above. The rotational input and the translational input may be provided by the user simultaneously using a single hand of the user. In some embodiments the translational input may be manually detected by a physical device such as an actuator.

In an embodiment the rotational and translational input may be provided by a user viewing the current position of a control target on a display screen. For example the user may be viewing the current position of a surgical device presented within a virtual representation of a patient on a display screen. In this example the rotational input and translational input may be provided using the current view on the display screen as a frame of reference.

The method then proceeds to block where a control signal is generated based on the rotational input and translational input and then transmitted. In the case of the rotational input being manually detected the control signal may be generated based on the rotational input and translational input as detected by a number of actuators which convert the mechanical force being asserted on the first control member and the second control member to an electrical signal to be interpreted as rotational input and translational input respectively. In the case of the rotational input being electronically detected the control signal may be generated based on rotational input as detected by accelerometers and translational input as detected by actuators.

In an embodiment a control signal may be generated based on the rotational input and translational input according to the BLUETOOTH protocol. Once generated the control signal may be transmitted as an RF signal by an RF transmitter according to the BLUETOOTH protocol. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that an RF signal may be generated and transmitted according to a variety of other RF protocols such as the ZIGBEE protocol the Wireless USB protocol etc. In other examples the control signal may be transmitted as an IR signal visible light signal or as some other signal suitable for transmitting the control information.

The method then proceeds to block the transceiver of the signal conversion system receives the control signal. In the case that the control signal is an RF signal the transceiver includes an RF sensor configured to receive a signal according to the appropriate protocol e.g. BLUETOOTH ZIGBEE Wireless USB etc. . In other embodiments the control signal may be transmitted over a wired connection. In this case the transmitter and the transceiver are physically connected by a cable such as a universal serial bus USB cable serial cable parallel cable proprietary cable etc.

The method then proceeds to block where the conversion processor commands movement in 6 DOF based on the received control signal. Specifically the control signal may be converted to movement commands based on the rotational and or translational input in the control signal. The movement commands may specify parameters for defining the movement of a point of view or a virtual representation of the user in one or more DOF in a virtual 3D environment. For example if the second control member is repositioned upward by the user the resulting control signal may be used to generate a movement command for moving a point of view of a surgical device up along the z axis within a 3D representation of a patient s body. In another example if the first control member is tilted to the left and the second control member is repositioned downward the resulting control signal may be used to generate movement commands for rolling a surgical device to the left while moving the surgical device down along a z axis in the 3D representation of the patient s body. Any combination of rotational and translational input may be provided to generate movement commands with varying combinations of parameters in one or more DOF.

The method then proceeds to block where a proportional movement is performed in the virtual and or real environment based on the movement commands. For example a point of view of a surgical device in a virtual representation of a patient may be repositioned according to the movement commands where the point of view corresponds to a camera or sensor affixed to a surgical device. In this example the surgical device may also be repositioned in the patient s body according to the movement of the surgical device in the virtual representation of the patient s body. The unified controller allows the surgeon to navigate the surgical device in 6 DOF within the patient s body with a single hand.

Referring now to a method for configuring a controller is illustrated. As is the case with the other methods described herein various embodiments may not include all of the steps described below may include additional steps and may sequence the steps differently. Accordingly the specific arrangement of steps shown in should not be construed as limiting the scope of controlling the movement of a control target.

The method begins at block where the controller is connected to an external computing device. The controller may be connected via a physical connection e.g. USB cable or any number of wireless protocols e.g. BLUETOOTH protocol . The external computing device may be preconfigured with software for interfacing with the controller .

The method then proceeds to block where configuration data is received by the controller from the external computing device. The configuration data may specify configuration parameters such as gains i.e. sensitivity rates of onset i.e. lag deadbands i.e. neutral and or limits i.e. maximum angular displacement . The configuration data may also assign movement commands for a control target to movements of the first control member and second control member. The configuration parameters may be specified by the user using the software configured to interface with the controller .

The method then proceeds to block where the operating parameters of the controller are adjusted based on the configuration data. The operating parameters may be stored in memory and then used by the controller to remotely control a control target as discussed above with respect to and . In some embodiments the method may include the ability to set trim establish rates of translation e.g. cm sec or reorientation e.g. deg sec or initiate auto sequences to auto pilot movements on a display or on the controller itself. 

In other embodiments the controller may be equipped with an input device that allows the user to directly configure the operating parameters of the controller . For example the controller may include a display screen with configuration menus that are navigable using the first control member and or the second control member .

A computer readable program product stored on a tangible storage media may be used to facilitate any of the preceding embodiments such as for example the control program discussed above. For example embodiments of the invention may be stored on a computer readable medium such as an optical disk e.g. compact disc CD digital versatile disc DVD etc. a diskette a tape a file a flash memory card or any other computer readable storage device. In this example the execution of the computer readable program product may cause a processor to perform the methods discussed above with respect to and .

Referring now to and a controller is illustrated that is substantially similar in structure and operation to the controller discussed above with reference to and with the provision of a second control member replacing the second control member and a plurality of control buttons and in place of the control button . The second control member is substantially similar in structure and operation to the second control member but is positioned on a front surface of the controller at the junction of the first section and the grip portion of the first control member . The control button is located on the top surface of the grip portion of the first control member while the control buttons are located on the front surface of the controller below the second control member .

In operation the first control member may operate substantially as described above according to the methods and . However inputs provided using the second control member be configured to provide different control signals. For example the user may use the index finger illustrated in to move the second control member side to side along a line G e.g. on its coupling to the first control member in order to provide y axis inputs to the controller . Furthermore the user may use the index finger to move the second control member up and down along a line H e.g. on its coupling to the first control member in order to provide z axis inputs to the controller . Further still the user may use the finger to move the second control member forward and backward along a line I e.g. on its coupling to the first control member including in some embodiments with resistance from a resilient member similar to the resilient member in order to provide x axis inputs to the controller . In an embodiment the resilient member may provide a neutral position of the second control member such that compressing the resilient member using the second control member provides a first y axis input for y axis movement of the control target in a first direction and extending the resilient member using the second control member provides a second y axis input for y axis movement of the control target in a second direction that is opposite the first direction. Furthermore the control buttons and may be actuated to control a variety of other systems on the control target as discussed above.

Referring now to and a controller is illustrated that is substantially similar in structure and operation to the controller discussed above with reference to and with the provision of a second control member replacing the second control member and a plurality of control buttons in place of the control button . The second control member is similar in structure and operation to the second control member but includes an actuation portion replacing the actuation portion . As can be seen the actuation portion does not include the thumb channel defined by the actuation portion . The control buttons are located on the front surface of the controller .

In operation the first control member may operate substantially as described above according to the methods and . The second control member may operate substantially as described above for the second control member according to the methods and but with some modifications. For example some inputs provided using the second control member be configured to provide different control signals. For example the user may use the thumb to move the second control member up and down along a line J e.g. on its coupling to the first control member by compressing the resilient member in order to provide z axis inputs to the controller . In some embodiments compressing the resilient member initially may provide a first z axis input for z axis movement of the control target in a first direction while a release of the second control member and then a recompression of the resilient member using the second control member may provide a second z axis input for z axis movement of the control target in a second direction that is opposite the first direction. In other embodiments one of the control buttons may determine which z axis direction compressing the second control member will provide e.g. with a control button in a first position compressing the second control member will provide a z axis input for z axis movement of the control target in a first direction while with that control button in a second position compressing the second control member will provide a z axis input for z axis movement of the control target in a second direction that is opposite the first direction. Furthermore the control buttons may be actuated to control a variety of other systems on the control target as discussed above.

Referring now to and a controller is illustrated that is substantially similar in structure and operation to the controller discussed above with reference to and with the provision of a second control member replacing the second control member . The second control member is a compressible button having first direction actuation portions second direction actuation portions and third direction actuation portion

In operation the first control member may operate substantially as described above according to the methods and . The second control member may operate substantially as described above for the second control member according to the methods and but with some modifications. For example the user may use the thumb to press the actuation portions on the second control member in order to provide x axis inputs to the controller . Furthermore the user may use the thumb to press the actuation portions on the second control member in order to provide y axis inputs to the controller . Further still the user may use the thumb to press the actuation portion on the second control member in order to provide z axis inputs to the controller . In an embodiment pressing the actuation portion on the second control member may provide a first z axis input for z axis movement of the control target in a first direction while releasing and then re pressing the actuation portion on the second control member may provide a second z axis input for z axis movement of the control target in a second direction that is opposite the first direction. In other embodiments the control button may determine which z axis direction pressing the actuation portion on the second control member will provide e.g. with a control button in a first position pressing the actuation portion on the second control member will provide a z axis input for z axis movement of the control target in a first direction while with that control button in a second position pressing the actuation portion on the second control member will provide a z axis input for z axis movement of the control target in a second direction that is opposite the first direction. 

Thus a system and method have been described that that include a controller that allows a user to provide rotational and translational commands in six independent degrees of freedom using a single hand. The system and method may be utilized in a wide variety of control scenarios. While a number of control scenarios are discussed below those examples are not meant to be limiting and one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that any control scenario may benefit from being able to provide rotational and translational movement using a single hand.

In an embodiment the control systems and methods discussed above may be utilized in a wide variety of medical applications. While a number of medical applications are discussed below those examples are not meant to be limiting and one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that many other medical applications may benefit from being able to provide rotational and translational movement using a single hand. Furthermore in such embodiments in addition to the rotational and translational movement provided using first and second control members discussed above control buttons e.g. the control button on controllers or and or other control buttons may be configured for tasks such as for example end effector capture biopsy suturing radiography photography and or a variety of other medical tasks as may be known by one or more of ordinary skill in the art.

For example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system for performing laparoscopic surgery and or a method for performing laparoscopic surgery. Conventional laparoscopic surgery is performed using control systems that require both hands of a surgeon to operate the control system. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in performing laparoscopic surgery including fine dexterous manipulation of one or more surgical instruments potentially without a straight and rigid path to the end effector.

In another example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system for performing minimally invasive or natural orifice surgery and or a method for performing minimally invasive or natural orifice surgery. Conventional minimally invasive or natural orifice surgery is performed using control systems that require both hands of a surgeon to operate the control system. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in performing minimally invasive or natural orifice surgery including fine dexterous manipulation of one or more surgical tools potentially without a straight and rigid path to the end effector.

In another example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system for performing prenatal intrauterine surgery and or a method for performing prenatal surgery. Conventional prenatal surgery is performed using control systems that require both hands of a surgeon to operate the control system in very tight confines. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in performing prenatal surgery including fine dexterous manipulation of one or more surgical tools potentially without a straight and rigid path to the end effector.

For any of the above surgical examples the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a very stable control system for performing microscopic surgery and or a method for performing microscopic surgery. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in performing microscopic surgery including highly accurate camera and end effector pointing.

In another example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system for performing interventional radiology and or a method for performing interventional radiology. Conventional interventional radiology is performed using control systems that require both hands of a surgeon to operate the control system. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in performing interventional radiology including highly accurate navigation through for interventional radiology.

In another example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system for performing interventional cardiology and or a method for performing interventional cardiology. Conventional interventional cardiology is performed using control systems that require both hands of an interventionist to operate the control system. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in performing interventional cardiology including highly accurate navigation through the vascular tree using one hand.

In another example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system including Hansen Da Vinci robotic control and or a method for performing Hansen Da Vinci robotic control. Conventional Hansen Da Vinci robotic control is performed using control systems that require both hands of a surgeon to operate the control system. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in performing Hansen Da Vinci robotic control including fluid continuous translation and reorientation without shuffling the end effector for longer motions.

In another example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system for performing 3D or 4D image guidance and or a method for performing 3D or 4D image guidance. Conventional 3D or 4D image guidance is performed using control systems that require both hands of a surgeon to operate the control system. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in performing 3D or 4D image guidance including fluid continuous translation and reorientation without shuffling the end effector for longer motions.

In another example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system for performing endoscopy and or a method for performing endoscopy. Conventional endoscopy is performed using control systems that require both hands of a surgeon to operate the control system. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in performing endoscopy including fluid continuous translation and reorientation without shuffling the end effector for longer motions. This also applies to colonoscopy cystoscopy bronchoscopy and other flexible inspection scopes.

In an embodiment the control systems and methods discussed above may be utilized in a wide variety of defense or military applications. While a number of defense or military applications are discussed below those examples are not meant to be limiting and one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that many other defense or military applications may benefit from being able to provide rotational and translational movement using a single hand.

For example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system for unmanned aerial systems and or a method for controlling unmanned aerial systems. Conventional unmanned aerial systems are controlled using control systems that require both hands of an operator to operate the control system. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in controlling unmanned aerial systems including intuitive single handed precise non cross coupled motion within the airspace.

In another example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system for unmanned submersible systems and or a method for controlling unmanned submersible systems. Conventional unmanned submersible systems are controlled using control systems that require both hands of an operator to operate the control system. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in controlling unmanned submersible systems including intuitive single handed precise non cross coupled motion within the submersible space.

In another example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system for weapons targeting systems and or a method for controlling weapons targeting systems. Conventional weapons targeting systems are controlled using control systems that require both hands of an operator to operate the control system. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in controlling weapons targeting systems including precise intuitive single handed targeting.

In another example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system for counter improvised explosive device TED systems and or a method for controlling counter IED systems. Conventional counter IED systems are controlled using control systems that require both hands of an operator to operate the control system. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in controlling counter IED systems including precise intuitive single handed pointing or targeting.

In another example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system for heavy mechanized vehicles and or a method for controlling heavy mechanized vehicles. Conventional heavy mechanized vehicles are controlled using control systems that require both hands of an operator to operate the control system. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in controlling heavy mechanized vehicles including precise intuitive single handed targeting.

In another example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system for piloted aircraft e.g. rotary wing aircraft and or a method for controlling piloted aircraft. Conventional piloted aircraft are controlled using control systems that require both hands of an operator to operate the control system. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in controlling piloted aircraft including precise intuitive single handed non cross coupled motion within the airspace for the piloted aircraft.

In another example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system for spacecraft rendezvous and docking and or a method for controlling spacecraft rendezvous and docking. Conventional spacecraft rendezvous and docking is controlled using control systems that require both hands of an operator to operate the control system. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in controlling spacecraft rendezvous and docking including precise intuitive single handed non cross coupled motion within the space for rendezvous and or docking.

In another example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system for air to air refueling e.g. boom control and or a method for controlling air to air refueling. Conventional air to air refueling is controlled using control systems that require both hands of an operator to operate the control system. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in controlling air to air refueling including precise intuitive single handed non cross coupled motion within the airspace for refueling.

In another example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system for navigation in virtual environments e.g. operational and simulated warfare and or a method for controlling navigation in virtual environments. Conventional navigation in virtual environments is controlled using control systems that require both hands of an operator to operate the control system. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in controlling navigation in virtual environments including precise intuitive single handed non cross coupled motion within the virtual environment.

In an embodiment the control systems and methods discussed above may be utilized in a wide variety of industrial applications. While a number of industrial applications are discussed below those examples are not meant to be limiting and one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that many other industrial applications may benefit from being able to provide rotational and translational movement using a single hand.

For example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system for oil exploration systems e.g. drills 3D visualization tools etc. and or a method for controlling oil exploration systems. Conventional oil exploration systems are controlled using control systems that require both hands of an operator to operate the control system. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in controlling oil exploration systems including precise intuitive single handed non cross coupled motion within the formation.

In another example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system for overhead cranes and or a method for controlling overhead cranes. Conventional overhead cranes are controlled using control systems that require both hands of an operator to operate the control system. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide a benefit in controlling overhead cranes where single axis motion is often limited by speeding up the process and increasing accuracy.

In another example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system for cherry pickers or other mobile industrial lifts and or a method for controlling cherry pickers or other mobile industrial lifts. Conventional cherry pickers or other mobile industrial lifts are often controlled using control systems that require both hands of an operator to operate the control system and often allow translation i.e. x y and or z motion in only one direction at a time. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in controlling cherry pickers or other mobile industrial lifts including simultaneous multi axis motion via a single handed controller.

In another example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system for firefighting systems e.g. water cannons ladder trucks etc. and or a method for controlling firefighting systems. Conventional firefighting systems are often controlled using control systems that require both hands of an operator to operate the control system and typically do not allow multi axis reorientation and translation. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in controlling firefighting systems including simultaneous multi axis motion via a single handed controller.

In another example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system for nuclear material handling e.g. gloveboxes fuel rods in cores etc. and or a method for controlling nuclear material handling. Conventional nuclear material handling systems are controlled using control systems that require both hands of an operator to operate the control system. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in controlling nuclear material handling including very precise fluid single handed multi axis operations with sensitive materials.

In another example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system for steel manufacturing and other high temperature processes and or a method for controlling steel manufacturing and other high temperature processes. Conventional steel manufacturing and other high temperature processes are controlled using control systems that require both hands of an operator to operate the control system. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in controlling steel manufacturing and other high temperature processes including very precise fluid single handed multi axis operations with sensitive materials.

In another example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system for explosives handling e.g. in mining applications and or a method for controlling explosives handling. Conventional explosives handling is controlled using control systems that require both hands of an operator to operate the control system. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in controlling explosives handling including very precise fluid single handed multi axis operations with sensitive materials.

In another example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system for waste management systems and or a method for controlling waste management systems. Conventional waste management systems are controlled using control systems that require both hands of an operator to operate the control system. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in controlling waste management systems including very precise fluid single handed multi axis operations with sensitive materials.

In an embodiment the control systems and methods discussed above may be utilized in a wide variety of consumer applications. While a number of consumer applications are discussed below those examples are not meant to be limiting and one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that many other consumer applications may benefit from being able to provide rotational and translational movement using a single hand.

For example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system for consumer electronics devices e.g. Nintendo WHO Nintendo of America Inc. Redmond Wash. USA Nintendo DS Microsoft XBox Microsoft Corp. Redmond Wash. USA Sony Playstation Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. Corp. Tokyo Japan and other video consoles as may be known by one or more of ordinary skill in the art and or a method for controlling consumer electronics devices. Conventional consumer electronics devices are controlled using control systems that require both hands of an operator to operate the control system e.g. a hand controller and keyboard two hands on one controller a Wii nunchuck z handed I O device etc. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in controlling consumer electronics devices including the ability to navigate with precision through virtual space with fluidity precision and speed via an intuitive single handed controller.

In another example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system for computer navigation in 3D and or a method for controlling computer navigation in 3D. Conventional computer navigation in 3D is controlled using control systems that either require both hands of an operator to operate the control system or do not allow fluid multi axis motion through space. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in controlling computer navigation in 3D including very precise fluid single handed multi axis operations.

In another example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system for radio controlled vehicles and or a method for controlling radio controlled vehicles. Conventional radio controlled vehicles are controlled using control systems that require both hands of an operator to operate the control system. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in controlling radio controlled vehicles including intuitive single handed precise non cross coupled motion within the airspace for radio controlled vehicles.

In another example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system for 3D computer aided drafting CAD image manipulation and or a method for controlling 3D CAD image manipulation. Conventional 3D CAD image manipulation is controlled using control systems that either require both hands of an operator to operate the control system or do not allow fluid multi axis motion through 3D space. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in controlling 3D CAD image manipulation including intuitive single handed precise non cross coupled motion within the 3D space.

In another example the control systems and methods discussed above may provide a control system for general aviation and or a method for controlling general aviation. Conventional general aviation is controlled using control systems that require both hands and feet of an operator to operate the control system. Using the control systems and or the methods discussed above provide several benefits in controlling general aviation including intuitive single handed precise non cross coupled motion within the airspace for general aviation.

It is understood that variations may be made in the above without departing from the scope of the invention. While specific embodiments have been shown and described modifications can be made by one skilled in the art without departing from the spirit or teaching of this invention. The embodiments as described are exemplary only and are not limiting. Many variations and modifications are possible and are within the scope of the invention. Furthermore one or more elements of the exemplary embodiments may be omitted combined with or substituted for in whole or in part with one or more elements of one or more of the other exemplary embodiments. Accordingly the scope of protection is not limited to the embodiments described but is only limited by the claims that follow the scope of which shall include all equivalents of the subject matter of the claims.

