---

title: Proximity-based notification of a previously abandoned and pre-queued ATM transaction
abstract: Proximity-triggered notifications/alerts are communicated to bank customers as a result of a previously abandoned/canceled ATM transaction that has subsequently been pre-queued for completion. In this regard, the present invention recognizes when the customer is proximate in location to a financial institution channel suitable for completing the transaction and sends the customer an alert, which is typically received by the customer via a mobile communication device. The alert indicates that the previous abandoned ATM transaction has been pre-queued for completion and provides the customer with the location of the nearest financial institution channel suitable for completing the transaction. In specific embodiments of the invention, pre-queuing of the transaction for completion provides for the customer to complete the transaction from the last existing point in the transaction completed by the customer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09646466&OS=09646466&RS=09646466
owner: BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
number: 09646466
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160218
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 636 880 filed Mar. 3 2015 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

In general embodiments of the invention relate to Automated Teller Machine ATM transactions and more particularly providing customers proximity triggered notifications alerts in response to a previously abandoned ATM transaction that has subsequently been pre queued for completion.

In many instances financial institution customer s initiate transactions at Automated Teller Machines ATMs which are subsequently abandoned prior to completion. For example a customer may initiate a deposit transaction at an ATM and subsequently realize that they have forgotten the cash or the checks that they desire to deposit or a customer may initiate a withdrawal or transfer only to realize that insufficient funds currently exist in the account from which the withdrawal transfer was desired. In another example the customer may initiate a lengthy time consuming ATM transaction such as a product service application and may realize that they do not have enough time currently available to finish the transaction.

In the event that a customer cancels a transaction at an ATM they may have the need to complete the transaction at a later point in time e.g. once the customer has the cash checks in their possession for deposit or once sufficient funds exist in an account for withdrawal transfer . However in many instances the customer may forget to complete the transaction or will only remember to complete the transaction upon returning to an ATM or other financial institution transaction channel e.g. banking center mobile banking application or the like for an unrelated transaction. In the event that the customer remembers to complete the transaction at a later point in time such as when returning to an ATM banking center or the like the customer in most instances must start the transaction anew. Thus lost transactions and or customer inefficiencies result from customer s abandoning transactions at ATMs which the customer has a desire to subsequently complete.

Therefore a need exists to develop systems apparatus computer program products and the like that provide for reminding the customer to complete a previously abandoned ATM transaction. The desired systems apparatus computer program products and the like should provide for reminding the customer at a point in time when it is highly convenient for the customer to complete the transaction. Moreover the desired systems apparatus and computer program product should provide for the customer to pick up the transaction where they left off i.e. at a last point in the transaction prior to abandoning cancelling the transaction so as to minimize the amount of time required of the customer to complete the transaction.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Embodiments of the present invention address the above needs and or achieve other advantages by providing apparatus systems computer program products methods or the like for providing financial institution customers proximity triggered notifications alerts in response to a previously abandoned canceled ATM transaction that has subsequently been pre queued for completion. In this regard the present invention recognizes when the customer is proximate in location to a financial institution transaction channel suitable for completing the transaction e.g. the same or another ATM a banking center kiosk a point of sale POS or the like and sends the customer an alert which is typically received by the customer via a mobile communication device. The alert indicates that the previous abandoned ATM transaction has been pre queued for completion and provides the customer with the location of the nearest financial institution channel suitable for completing the transaction. In specific embodiments of the invention pre queuing of the transaction for completion provides for the customer to complete the transaction from the last existing point in the transaction completed by the customer. For example if the customer returns to an ATM to complete the transaction the customer may be presented with a shortcut i.e. a pending transaction option which upon selection by the customer takes the customer to the last existing point in the transaction prior to the customer cancelling the transaction as such the invention may eliminate the need for the customer to navigate through a series of previous navigated menus or the like in order to move to the point in the transaction at which the customer chose to cancel the transaction .

A system for providing customers proximity triggered notifications for resuming abandoned Automated Teller Machine ATM transactions defines first embodiments of the invention. The system includes a distributed computing network having disposed therein a plurality of automated teller machines ATMs . Each ATM includes a first memory and at least one first processor in communication with the first memory. The first processor is configured to execute a usage pattern detection routine that is configured to 1 identify a usage pattern defined by a customer abandoning a transaction previously initiated at the ATM and 2 in response to identifying the usage pattern compile data associated with the usage pattern.

The system additionally includes an ATM authorization system that includes one or more apparatus disposed within the distributed computing network. The apparatus include a second memory at least one second processor in communication with the second memory and a pending transaction queuing routine that is stored in the second memory and is executable by the second processor. The pending transaction queuing routine is configured to 1 receive the data associated with the usage pattern 2 transform the data to create a pending transaction for the customer and 3 queue the pending transaction in the ATM authorization system for a predetermined period of time such that the pending transaction expires after completion of the predetermined period of time.

Additionally the system includes a customer management system that includes one or more apparatus disposed within the distributed computing network. The apparatus include a third memory at least one third processor in communication with the third memory and a pending transaction customer alert that is stored in the third memory and is executable by the third processor. The pending transaction customer alert is configured to 1 receive a pending transaction notification from the ATM authorization system 2 during the predetermined period of time receive a location notification that indicates that the customer is proximate to a location for completing the pending transaction and 3 in response to receiving the location notification generate and initiate communication of a customer alert that includes information related to the pending transaction and the location for completing the pending transaction.

In specific embodiments the system further includes a mobile communication device that includes a fourth memory at least one fourth processor in communication with the fourth memory a location determining mechanism in communication with the fourth processor and a mobile banking application stored in the fourth memory and executable by the fourth processor. The mobile banking application is configured to 1 receive a pending transaction notification from the customer management system 2 implement the location determining mechanism to determine when the customer in possession of the mobile communication device is proximate to the location for completing the pending transaction and 3 based on the customer being determined to be proximate to the location for completing the pending transaction communicate with the customer management system to determine customer configurations for communicating the customer alert. In other embodiments of the system one or more of the plurality of ATMs is configured as a wireless beacon that scans a proximate vicinity to determine mobile communication devices associated with customers that are located within the proximate vicinity and in such embodiments the pending transaction notification is further configured to receive the location notification from either directly or indirectly the one or more of the ATMs.

In other specific embodiments of the system the pending transaction queuing routine is further configured to transform the data to create the pending transaction wherein the pending transaction is configured to allow the customer to resume the transaction at a last completed point in the transaction. In such embodiments the system may further include an ATM user interface routine that is executable at the plurality of ATMs. The ATM user interface routine is configured to provide the customer during the predetermined time period and in immediate response to authenticating the customer a display at an ATM of a pending transaction option. The pending transaction option is configured in response to the customer selecting the pending transaction option to allow the customer to resume the transaction at the last completed point in the transaction absent presentation of further selection menus.

In still further specific embodiments of the system the usage pattern detection routine is further configured to compile the data associated with the usage pattern and the data includes account information of the customer a timestamp and information related to actions completed by the customer prior to the customer abandoning the transaction.

In still further embodiments of the system the pending transaction customer alert is further configured to determine one or more locations for completing the pending transaction based on one or more of 1 pending transaction type and 2 pre configured customer notifications settings.

An apparatus for providing customers proximity triggered notifications for resuming abandoned Automated Teller Machine ATM transactions defines second embodiments of the invention. The apparatus includes a computing platform having a memory and at least one processor in communication with the memory. Further the apparatus includes a usage pattern detection routine stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to 1 identify a usage pattern at an Automated Teller Machine ATM wherein the usage pattern is defined by a customer abandoning a transaction previously initiated at the ATM and 2 in response to identifying the usage pattern compile data associated with the usage pattern. The apparatus additionally includes a pending transaction queuing routine that is stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to 1 receive the data associated with the usage pattern 2 transform the data to create a pending transaction for the customer and 3 queue the pending transaction in the ATM authorization system for a predetermined period of time such that the pending transaction expires after completion of the predetermined period of time. Moreover the apparatus includes a pending transaction customer alert that is stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to 1 receive a pending transaction notification from the ATM authorization system 2 during the predetermined period of time receive a location notification that indicates that the customer is proximate to a location for completing the pending transaction and 3 in response to receiving the location notification generate and initiate communication of a customer alert that includes information related to the pending transaction and the location for completing the pending transaction.

In specific embodiments of the apparatus the pending transaction customer alert is further configured to receive the location notification from a location determining mechanism disposed within a mobile communication device associated with the customer. While in other specific embodiments of the apparatus the pending transaction customer alert is configured to receive the location notification as a result of an ATM configured as a wireless beacon that scans a proximate vicinity to determine mobile communication devices associated with customers that are currently located within the proximate vicinity.

In still further embodiments of the apparatus the pending transaction queuing routine is further configured to transform the data to create the pending transaction such that the pending transaction is configured to allow the customer to resume the transaction at a last completed point in the transaction. In such embodiments the apparatus may further include an ATM user interface routine that is stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to provide the customer during the predetermined time period and in immediate response to authenticating the customer a display at an ATM of a pending transaction option that is configured in response to the customer selecting the pending transaction option to allow the customer to resume the transaction at the last completed point in the transaction absent presentation of further selection menus.

Moreover in additional specific embodiments of the apparatus the usage pattern detection routine is further configured to compile the data associated with the usage pattern such that the data includes account information of the customer a timestamp and information related to actions completed by the customer prior to the customer abandoning the transaction.

In yet other specific embodiments of the apparatus the pending transaction customer alert is further configured to determine one or more locations for completing the pending transaction based on one or more of 1 pending transaction type and 2 pre configured customer notifications settings.

A computer program product including a non transitory computer readable medium defines third embodiments of the invention. The computer readable medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to identify a usage pattern at an Automated Teller Machine ATM wherein the usage pattern is defined by a customer abandoning a transaction previously initiated at the ATM and in response to identifying the usage pattern compile data associated with the usage pattern. The computer readable medium additionally includes a second set of codes for causing a computer to transform the data to create a pending transaction for the customer and queue the pending transaction in the ATM authorization system for a predetermined period of time such that the pending transaction expires after completion of the predetermined period of time. In addition the computer readable medium includes a third set of codes for causing a computer to during the predetermined period of time receive a location notification that indicates that the customer is proximate to a location for completing the pending transaction and in response to receiving the location notification generate and initiate communication of a customer alert that includes information related to the pending transaction and the location for completing the pending transaction.

Thus systems apparatus methods and computer program products herein described in detail below provide for communicating proximity triggered notifications alerts to bank customers in response to a previously abandoned canceled ATM transaction that has subsequently been pre queued for completion. In this regard the present invention recognizes when the customer is proximate in location to a financial institution channel suitable for completing the transaction and sends the customer an alert which is typically received by the customer via a mobile communication device. The alert indicates that the previous abandoned ATM transaction has been pre queued for completion and provides the customer with the location of the nearest financial institution channel suitable for completing the transaction. In specific embodiments of the invention pre queuing of the transaction for completion provides for the customer to complete the transaction from the last existing point in the transaction completed by the customer.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more embodiments. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and this description is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. Although some embodiments of the invention described herein are generally described as involving a financial institution one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the invention may be utilized by other businesses that take the place of or work in conjunction with financial institutions to perform one or more of the processes or steps described herein as being performed by a financial institution.

As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art in view of this disclosure the present invention may be embodied as an apparatus e.g. a system computer program product and or other device a method or a combination of the foregoing. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may generally be referred to herein as a system. Furthermore embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product comprising a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code computer readable instructions embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer usable or computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples e.g. a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a tangible medium such as a portable computer diskette a hard disk a time dependent access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM or other tangible optical or magnetic storage device.

Computer program code computer readable instructions for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may be written in an object oriented scripted or unscripted programming language such as Java Perl Smalltalk C or the like. However the computer program code computer readable instructions for carrying out operations of the invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages.

Embodiments of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods or apparatuses the term apparatus including systems and computer program products . It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that the instructions which execute by the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create mechanisms for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. Alternatively computer program implemented steps or acts may be combined with operator or human implemented steps or acts in order to carry out an embodiment of the invention.

According to embodiments of the invention described herein various systems apparatus methods and computer program products are herein described for providing ATM customers with proximity triggered notifications alerts in response to a previously abandoned canceled ATM transaction that has subsequently been pre queued for completion by the customer s financial institution. In this regard the present invention recognizes when the customer is proximate in location to a financial institution channel suitable for completing the transaction and sends the customer an alert which is typically received by the customer via a mobile communication device. The alert indicates that the previous abandoned ATM transaction which the customer may desire to complete has been pre queued for completion and provides the customer with the location of the nearest financial institution channel suitable for completing the transaction. In specific embodiments of the invention pre queuing of the transaction for completion provides for the customer to resume the transaction from the last existing point in the transaction completed by the customer.

Referring to a schematic diagram is provided of a system for providing banking customers with proximity triggered alerts for resuming completing previously abandoned Automated Teller Machine ATM transactions in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The system includes a distributed computing network which generally comprises both public e.g. Internet and private e.g. intranet communication networks and provides for both wired and wireless communication between the various components of the network. The system includes a plurality of Automated Teller Machines ATMs that are disposed within the distributed computing network . ATMs are configured to allow customers to conduct financial transactions such as deposits withdrawals and the like through customer interaction with various user interfaces. The ATM system is configured to execute a usage pattern detection routine that identifies various usage patterns including an abandon cancelled transaction usage pattern that is defined by a customer initiating a specific transaction at the ATM e.g. withdrawal deposit transfer service product application or the like and subsequently abandoning i.e. cancelling the transaction. The abandoned transaction usage pattern will comprise one or more predetermined actions taken by the customer during the ATM user session. In response to identifying the abandoned transaction usage pattern the usage pattern detection routine will compile data associated with the abandoned transaction such as customer account information a timestamp associated with when the transaction was abandoned information associated with the abandoned transaction e.g. a last in time customer event action information associated with the customer s ATM session e.g. other transactions completed during the session and the like. Once the data is complied the data may be encrypted and is communicated via a secure connection with a financial institution s ATM communication network to an ATM authorization system .

As such system includes ATM authorization system which is implemented on one or more apparatus such as server or the like. The ATM authorization system includes a pending transaction queuing routine that is configured to receive the data associated with the abandoned transaction and transform the data to create a pending transaction . The pending transaction is associated with the customer that abandoned the transaction at the ATM and is defined as a partially completed transaction. Once the pending transaction has been created it is stored in a pending transaction queue associated with the customer for a predetermined period of time e.g. a day 24 hours one week or the like . The pending transaction will expire i.e. be deleted from the pending transaction queue upon expiration of the predetermined period of time . In specific embodiments of the invention the predetermined period of time will be determined based on at least one of the type of the pending transaction i.e. previously abandoned transaction and or customer and or financial institution configuration that define how long a pending transaction should remain in a pending transaction queue.

System additionally includes customer management system which is implemented on one or more apparatus such as server or the like. Customer management system comprises individual customer profiles not shown in that define based on customer and financial institution configuration how the customer is managed by the financial institution e.g. what actions events may trigger notifications alerts from the financial institution to the customer and the like . Customer management system includes pending transaction customer alert routine that is configured to receive a pending transaction notification from the ATM authorization system . The pending transaction notification includes information about a pending transaction including the associated customer the period of time for which the transaction will be pending i.e. the expiration time period and the like. In response to receiving the pending transaction notification and while the pending transaction is still active i.e. prior to expiration of the predetermined time period the pending transaction customer alert routine tracks the location of the customer such that when the customer is determined to be proximate to a location where the customer can complete the pending transaction e.g. an ATM a banking center a kiosk or the like the pending transaction customer alert routine receives a location notification . The location notification indicates the location of the proximate ATM banking center or the like at which the customer may complete the pending transaction . The distance defined as proximate may be configured by the financial institution and or by the customer. In specific embodiments the customer configurations will override any financial institution such that the distance to a location that triggers a location notification is customer defined.

In specific embodiments of the invention the location notification is initiated by a mobile communication device in possession of a customer that is equipped with a location determining mechanism such as Global Positioning System GPS location determining mechanisms or the like. An application executing on the mobile communication device e.g. mobile banking application or executing remotely may be configured to determine proximity to an ATM or a banking center based on the current location of the mobile communication device and known locations of ATMs banking centers and the like. In other specific embodiments of the invention the location notification is initiated by ATMs that are specifically configured as wireless communication beacons that to scan the proximate vicinity of the ATM e.g. communicate beacon signals to determine which devices are currently active within proximate vicinity of the ATM.

In response to receiving the location notification the pending transaction customer alert routine will generate and initiate network communication of a customer alert that includes information related to the pending transaction and the location s for completing the pending transaction i.e. the ATM s or banking centers in the proximate vicinity of the customer . In specific embodiments receipt of either the pending transaction notification or the location notification will prompt the customer alert routine to access a customer profile not shown in that stores customer configurations related to pending transaction customer alerts. The configurations may include which type of abandoned applications trigger notifications the communication channel preferred for sending the customer alerts the preferred times and frequency for sending the customer alerts the proximate distance to a location that triggers an alert the type of transaction channel locations e.g. ATMs only that trigger an alert and the like. In this regard the customer s profile may be accessed to determine if a customer alert is required for this particular pending transactions and or this particular location for completing the pending transaction.

In specific embodiments of the invention the customer alert is a mobile communication alert that is displayed on the customer s mobile communication device. The information related to the pending transaction may include the time place and specifics of the abandoned transaction and the location for completing the pending may include network access embedded link to a map with directions to the location i.e. directions to an ATM banking center kiosk or the like .

Referring to a block diagram is presented of an apparatus which is configured for providing customers proximity triggered alerts for resuming previously abandoned ATM transactions in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The apparatus which may comprise more than one device includes a computing platform having a memory and at least one processor in communication with the memory . The memory of apparatus stores usage pattern detection routine that is executable by the processor and configured to identify usage patterns including an abandoned cancelled transaction pattern . The abandoned cancelled transaction pattern is defined by a series of events i.e. user inputs at the ATM which indicate the customer s desire to initiate a specific transaction e.g. withdrawal deposit transfer service product application or the like absent the necessary events i.e. user inputs to complete the transaction. In response to identifying the abandoning transaction usage pattern the usage pattern detection routine is further configured to compile data associated with abandoned transaction such as customer account information customer identifier data a timestamp for the abandoned transaction information related to the abandoned transaction and information related to the customer s ATM session.

Additionally memory of apparatus includes pending transaction queuing routine that is executable by processor and configured to receive the data associated with abandoned transaction and perform a data transformation to create a pending transaction that is awaiting completion by the customer. As previously noted a pending transaction is a partially completed ATM transaction that has outstanding actions to be taken by the customer to complete the transaction. Once the pending transaction has been created the pending transaction is placed in the pending transaction queue for the predetermined period of time such that the pending transaction will expire i.e. be deleted from the queue upon completion of the period of time . While in the queue the pending transaction may be presented to the customer for completion when the customer interacts with a financial institution transaction channel such as an ATM a banking center a kiosk or where applicable an online or mobile banking application. In addition pending transaction queuing routine is configured to generate and initiate communication of a pending transaction notification which is communicated to a customer management system for subsequent generation and communication of proximity triggered alerts that notify the customer of the pending pre queued transaction that awaits the customer s completion at a proximate financial institution transaction channel ATM banking channel or kiosk .

As such the memory of apparatus additionally includes pending transaction customer alert routine that is executable by processor and configured to receive the pending transaction notification and during the predetermined period time receive a location notification that indicates that the customer is proximate within a predetermined distance to a location suitable for completing the transaction i.e. an ATM affiliated with the financial institution a financial institution banking center a banking kiosk or the like . As previously noted the location information in the location notification may be mobile communication based i.e. location determining mechanism GPS within the mobile device or ATM banking center based i.e. beacon signals emanating from an ATM or banking center . In response to receiving the location notification and in some instances verifying alert configuration requirements of the customer the pending transaction customer alert routine will generate and initiate communication of a customer alert that includes information related to the pending transaction and the location for completing the pending transaction.

Referring to a block diagram is presented of an apparatus which is configured for providing financial institution customers proximity triggered alerts that notify the customer that a previously abandoned ATM transaction may be completed at a proximate financial institution transaction channel ATM banking center or the like in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. In addition to providing greater detail highlights various alternate embodiments of the invention. The apparatus may include one or more of any type of computing device such as multiple servers or the like. The present apparatus and methods can accordingly be performed on any form of one or more computing devices.

The apparatus includes computing platform that can receive and execute algorithms such as routines and applications. Computing platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and non volatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk. Moreover memory may comprise cloud storage such as provided by a cloud storage service and or a cloud connection service.

Further computing platform also includes processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API not shown in that interfaces with any resident programs such as usage pattern detection routine pending transaction queuing routine pending transaction customer alert routine ATM user interface routine and sub modules associated therewith or the like stored in the memory of the apparatus .

Processor includes various processing subsystems not shown in embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of apparatus and the operability of the apparatus on a network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem used in conjunction with usage pattern detection routine pending transaction queuing routine pending transaction customer alert routine ATM user interface routine and related algorithms sub algorithms modules sub modules thereof.

Computer platform may additionally include communications module not shown in embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the apparatus as well as between the other networked devices. Thus communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing and maintaining a network communication connection.

The memory of apparatus stores usage pattern detection routine that is executable by the processor and configured to identify usage patterns including an abandoned cancelled transaction pattern . The abandoned cancelled transaction pattern is defined by a series of events i.e. user inputs at the ATM which indicate the customer s desire to initiate a specific transaction absent the necessary events i.e. user inputs to complete the transaction. In response to identifying the abandoning transaction usage pattern the usage pattern detection routine is further configured to compile data associated with abandoned transaction such as customer account information including customer identifier data a timestamp for the abandoned transaction information related to the abandoned transaction and information related to the customer s ATM session e.g. other transactions conducted by the customer during the ATM interaction session . Information related to the transaction and information related to the ATM session may be instrumental in those embodiments of the invention in which the pending transaction is queued so as to provide for the customer to resume the transaction at a point at which they abandoned the transaction i.e. the customer can conveniently forego performing the steps user inputs which they conducted leading up to the abandonment of the transaction .

Additionally as previously described the memory of apparatus includes pending transaction queuing routine that is executable by processor and configured to receive the data associated with abandoned transaction and perform a data transformation to create a pending transaction that is awaiting completion by the customer. As previously noted a pending transaction is a partially completed ATM transaction that has outstanding actions to be taken by the customer to complete the transaction. In addition according to specific embodiments of the invention the pending transaction queuing routine is able to create the pending transaction such that the customer can resume the transaction at a last completed point in the abandoned transaction . It should be noted that such configuration of the pending transaction accounts for the fact that while the customer initiated the transaction at an ATM the customer may complete the transaction at a different transaction channel e.g. a banking center a mobile online banking application or the like . As such the pending transaction that is created is configured to allow for the customer to resume the transaction at a last completed point in the transaction regardless of the transaction channel chosen by the customer to complete the transaction. In this regard if the customer chooses to complete the transaction at the same or another ATM the customer may conveniently avoid various menus and input actions that were presented and or performed by the customer prior to the transaction and if the customer chooses to complete the banking center various inquires surrounding the transaction may be avoided by the banking center representative since this data will already exist in the pending transaction file.

As previously discussed once the pending transaction has been created the pending transaction is placed in the pending transaction queue for the predetermined period of time such that the pending transaction will expire i.e. be deleted from the queue upon culmination of the period of time . While in the queue the pending transaction may be presented to the customer for completion when the customer interacts with any financial institution transaction channel such as an ATM a banking center a kiosk or where applicable an online or mobile banking application. It should be noted that according to specific embodiments such presentation of the pending transaction to the customer at the various transaction channels will occur regardless of the communication of the customer alert . In addition pending transaction queuing routine is configured to generate and initiate communication of a pending transaction notification which is communicated to a customer management system for subsequent generation and communication of proximity triggered alerts that notify the customer of the pending pre queued transaction that awaits the customer s completion at a proximate financial institution transaction channel ATM banking channel or kiosk .

Moreover the memory of apparatus includes pending transaction customer alert routine that is executable by processor and configured to receive the pending transaction notification and during the predetermined period time receive a location notification that indicates that the customer is proximate within a predetermined distance to a location suitable for completing the transaction i.e. an ATM affiliated with the financial institution a financial institution banking center a banking kiosk or the like . As previously noted the location information in the location notification may be mobile communication based i.e. location determining mechanism GPS within the mobile device or ATM banking center based i.e. beacon signals emanating from an ATM or banking center .

In specific embodiments of the invention the customer alert routine or some other complementary routine or logic is configured to determine locations for completing the transaction based on one or more of the type of pending transaction i.e. a withdrawal a deposit a transfer or the like and or predetermined customer settings configuration . The type of pending transaction takes into the account the fact that certain types of transactions can only occur at certain transactions channels. Moreover the customer settings may for example indicate that the customer only desires to be alerted when proximate in location to ATMs and not notified if proximate to a banking center. Such determination may occur prior to receiving location notifications or may occur prior to receiving location notifications thus qualifying the type of location notifications received.

In response to receiving the location notification and in some instances verifying alert configuration requirements of the customer the pending transaction customer alert routine will generate and initiate communication of a customer alert that includes information related to the pending transaction and the location for completing the pending transaction.

In specific embodiments of the invention the memory of apparatus may additionally include ATM user interface routine that is configured to in response to queuing a pending transaction present a pending transaction option to the customer at the onset of the ATM session i.e. immediately after the customer has performed requisite authentication inputted login PIN or the like . The pending transaction option not only notifies the customer that a pending transaction exists but also is configured as a shortcut to the pending customer. In this regard the pending transaction option is configured as a selectable entry key that upon activation selection by the customer takes the customer i.e. moves the onscreen presentation to a last completed point in the transaction so that the customer may resume the transaction at the point at which they left off i.e. the point of abandonment . As such selection of the pending transaction option by the customer eliminates the need for the customer to provide previous information and or be presented intermediary input dialog displays menus which were previously presented to and responded to by the customer.

Referring to a flow diagram is presented of a method for providing customers proximity triggered alerts for notifying the customer of an option to resume a previously abandoned ATM transaction at a currently conveniently located transaction channel in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. At Event an abandoned transaction usage pattern is identified at an Automated Teller Machine ATM . The abandoned transaction usage pattern is identified based on the user providing a series of inputs at the ATM that indicate that the user initiated a transaction such as a deposit withdrawal transfer service product application or the like at the ATM and subsequently chose to cancel or abandon the transaction. Once the abandoned transaction has been identified data associated with the abandoned transaction usage pattern is compiled. The data may include account customer identifying information a timestamp date time of the abandoned transaction information associated with the transaction actions taken by the customer information associated with the ATM session other transactions conducted and the like.

At Event the data associated with the abandoned transaction is transformed to create a pending transaction otherwise referred to as a partially completed transaction and the pending transaction is stored in a pending transaction queue for predetermined period of time. The pending transaction queue provides for the pending transaction to be presented or otherwise accessible to the customer for completion during the predetermined time period such that upon expiration of the period of time e.g. a day a week or the like the pending transaction is deleted form the queue and is no longer presented to or accessible to the customer. The predetermined period of time may be defined may the financial institution the customer and or based on the type of transaction.

At Event in response to creating the pending transaction a location notification is received that indicates that the customer is proximate in location to a financial institution transaction channel e.g. ATM banking center kiosk or the like suitable for completing the pending transaction. In specific embodiments of the invention the location notification is triggered by a mobile communication device in possession of the customer that includes a location determining mechanism e.g. GPS . The mobile communication may be configured to execute a mobile banking application and the customer may have opted in regarding sharing location information with the financial institution. In other embodiments of the invention the location notification may be triggered by an ATM or other device at a banking center serving as a communication beacon that scans the proximate vicinity to determine accessible mobile communication devices currently located in the proximate vicinity.

At Event in immediate response to receiving the location notification a customer alert is generated and communicated to the customer. The customer alert notifies the customer of the existence of the pending transaction i.e. notifies the customer that the financial institution is aware that the customer initiated but failed to complete at a transaction at an ATM and provides details address access to a map as to the transaction channel e.g. ATM banking center or the like that the customer is currently in the vicinity of which is suitable for using to complete the pending transaction.

Thus systems apparatus methods and computer program products described above provide for communicating proximity triggered notifications alerts to bank customers as a result of a previously abandoned canceled ATM transaction by the customer that has subsequently been pre queued for completion by the financial institution. In this regard the present invention recognizes when the customer is proximate in location to a financial institution channel suitable for completing the transaction and sends the customer an alert which is typically received by the customer via a mobile communication device. The alert indicates that the previous abandoned ATM transaction which the customer may desire to complete has been pre queued for completion and provides the customer with the location of the nearest financial institution channel suitable for completing the transaction. In specific embodiments of the invention pre queuing of the transaction for completion provides for the customer to complete the transaction from the last existing point in the transaction completed by the customer.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible.

Those skilled in the art may appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

