---

title: USP7 inhibitor compounds and methods of use
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09573899&OS=09573899&RS=09573899
owner: Genentech, Inc.
number: 09573899
owner_city: South San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160318
---
This non provisional application filed under 37 CFR 1.53 b claims the benefit under 35 USC 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 135 846 filed on 20 Mar. 2015 which is incorporated by reference in entirety.

The invention relates generally to compounds for treating disorders mediated by USP7 including inflammation immunological and cancer and more specifically to compounds which inhibit or modulate USP7 activity or function. The invention also relates to methods of using the compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells or associated pathological conditions.

Ubiquitin a small protein that acts as a post translational mark on other proteins has a surprising amount of conformational heterogeneity Lange O. F. et al. 2008 Science 320 1471 1475 . Protein ubiquitination mediates numerous cellular processes such as cell cycle control apoptosis epigenetics and transcriptional regulation Clague M. J. et al 2010 Cell 143 682 685 . The C terminus of ubiquitin is covalently attached to a lysine or the N terminus of a substrate protein through the coordinated action of three classes of enzymes an E1 activator an E2 conjugator and ubiquitin ligase ubiquitin E3 Pickart C. M. 2001 Annu. Rev. Biochem. 70 503 533 . Each of the seven lysines or the N terminus of ubiquitin can also serve as a substrate for further ubiquitination allowing the polymerization of ubiquitin chains with linkages that convey a wealth of information Pickart C. M. et al 2004 Curr. Opin. Chem. Biol. 8 610 616 . Motions within the 1 2 loop of ubiquitin have been implicated in its recognition by partner proteins though it is currently unknown how the conformational state of apo ubiquitin is read by each partner. The multiple conformations of apo ubiquitin could represent a compromise that allows its single protein surface to bind a wide variety of unrelated partners with moderate affinity Humphris E. L. et al 2007 PLoS Comput. Biol. 3 e164 2007 Friedland G. D. et al 2009 PLoS Comput. Biol. 5 e1000393 .

Deubiquitinases DUBs are a class of specialized proteases that regulate ubiquitin mediated signaling by disassembling ubiquitin chains or removing monoubiquitination from substrates Heideker J. and Wertz I. E. 2015 Biochem. J. 465 1 26 Lill J. R. and Wertz I. E. 2014 Trends in Pharm. Sci. 35 4 187 207 Komander D. et al 2009 Nat. Rev. Mol. Cell Biol. 10 550 563 . There are approximately 100 identified human DUBs the majority of which await extensive investigation. One exception is USP7 also known as HAUSP a ubiquitin specific protease USP which has an established role in tumorigenesis via its action on Mdm2 p53 FOXO4 and PTEN Nicholson B. et al 2011 Cell Biochem. Biophys. 60 61 68 Hussain S. et al 2009 Cell Cycle 8 1688 1697 . Although the determination of USP7 s precise function in certain pathways has been complicated by conflicting reports Li M. et al 2004 Mol. Cell 13 879 886 Li M. et al. 2002 Nature 416 648 653 this enzyme s participation in many cancer related processes has made it an attractive therapeutic target.

Despite its cellular importance the catalytic core of USP7 is unexpectedly inactive with a catalytic efficiency k K around 103 M 1 s 1 and an affinity KD for ubiquitin of several hundred micromolar Faesen A. C. et al. 2011 Mol. Cell 44 147 159 Fern ndez Montalv n A. et al. 2007 FEBS J. 274 4256 4270 . The conformationally heterogeneous 1 2 loop is directly contacted by all DUBs including USP7. Hence it is sought to determine whether stabilizing a USP7 binding conformation of ubiquitin s 1 2 region could yield variants with a high affinity for the target DUB. Given USP7 s role in cell division and technical difficulties surrounding USP7 knockdown a conformationally optimized ubiquitin based inhibitor with high affinity and specificity for USP7 could prove a potent tool for understanding USP7 s cellular functions. In a related approach surface engineering of ubiquitin was used to generate potent binders of ubiquitin signaling enzymes Ernst et al Science doi 10.1126 science. 1230161 3 Jan. 2013 Zhang Y. et al 2013 Nature Chemical Biology 9 1 51 58 .

USP7 or HAUSP herpesvirus associated USP is a ubiquitin specific protease or a deubiquitylating enzyme that cleaves ubiquitin from its substrates Holowaty M N et al 2003 J. Biol. Chem. 278 48 47753 47756 . Since ubiquitylation polyubiquitination is most commonly associated with the stability and degradation of cellular proteins HAUSP activity generally stabilizes its substrate proteins. HAUSP is most popularly known as a direct antagonist of Mdm2 the E3 ubiquitin ligase for the tumor suppressor protein p53 Li M et al 2002 Nature 416 6881 648 53 . Normally p53 levels are kept low in part due to Mdm2 mediated ubiquitylation and degradation of p53. In response to oncogenic insults HAUSP can deubiquitinate p53 and protect p53 from Mdm2 mediated degradation indicating that it may possess a tumor suppressor function for the immediate stabilization of p53 in response to stress. Another important role of HAUSP function involves the oncogenic stabilization of p53. Oncogenes such as Myc and E1A are thought to activate p53 through a p19 alternative reading frame p19ARF also called ARF dependent pathway although some evidence suggests ARF is not essential in this process. A possibility is that HAUSP provides an alternative pathway for safeguarding the cell against oncogenic insults.

USP7 is a DUB that controls cell proliferation by altering the stability of Mdm2 p53 PTEN and FOXO4. Despite USP7 s importance in tumor related pathways relatively little is known about its cellular and biochemical regulation and there has been some confusion about its precise role in the Mdm2 p53 axis in part because of a lack of inhibitory tools. The catalytic domain of USP7 is relatively inefficient in vitro with a nearly undetectable affinity for its ubiquitin substrate and relatively poor catalytic efficiency. The C terminus and the fourth and fifth Ubl domains of USP7 greatly increase its activity via a combination of increased kcat and decreased Km though the mechanism by which these effects are achieved is currently unknown. Engineering of ubiquitin conformation can greatly increase its interaction with deubiquitinases such as USP7 Zhang Y. et al 2013 Nature Chemical Biology 9 1 51 58 .

Deregulation of the ubiquitin proteasome system UPS has been implicated in the pathogenesis of many human diseases including cancer Vucic D. et al 2011 Nature Reviews Molecular Cell Biology 12 439 452 . Ubiquitin specific proteases USP are cysteine proteases involved in the deubiquitination of protein substrates. Functional connections between USP7 and essential viral proteins and oncogenic pathways such as the p53 Mdm2 and phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase protein kinase B networks strongly suggest that the targeting of USP7 with small molecule inhibitors may be useful for the treatment of cancers and viral diseases.

Therapeutic agents that target apoptotic regulatory proteins that are part of the ubiquitin proteasome system might afford clinical benefits Vucic D. et al 2011 Nature Reviews Molecular Cell Biology 12 439 452 . Deubiquitinase inhibitors and antagonists have been reported Lill J. R. and Wertz I. E. 2014 Trends in Pharm. Sci. 35 4 187 207 see Table 2 page 195 Ndubaku C. and Tsui V. 2015 J. Med. Chem. DOI 10.1021 jm501061a . The rationale for targeting the ubiquitin proteasome system for the treatment of cancer is validated by FDA approval and the clinical efficacy of bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharmaceuticals for the treatment of multiple myeloma and mantle cell lymphoma. Phenotypes associated with USP7 silencing strongly suggest that small molecule inhibitors of USP7 may have the potential for antiviral and anticancer therapies Li M. et al. 2002 Nature 416 648 653 Daviet L. and Colland F. 2008 Biochimie 90 270 283 .

The invention relates generally to 2 aminopyridine compounds with USP7 modulating activity or function having the Formula I structure 

including stereoisomers tautomers or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. The various substituents are defined herein.

One aspect of the invention is a pharmaceutical composition comprised of a Formula I compound and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier glidant diluent or excipient. The pharmaceutical composition may further comprise a second therapeutic agent.

Another aspect of the invention is a process for making a pharmaceutical composition which comprises combining a Formula I compound with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

The invention includes a method of treating a disease or disorder which method comprises administering a therapeutically effective amount of a Formula I compound to a patient with a disease or disorder selected from immune disorders cancer cardiovascular disease viral infection inflammation metabolism endocrine function disorders and neurological disorders and mediated by USP7.

The invention includes a kit for treating a condition mediated by USP7 comprising a a first pharmaceutical composition comprising a Formula I compound and b instructions for use.

The invention includes a Formula I compound for use as a medicament and for use in treating a disease or disorder selected from immune disorders cancer cardiovascular disease viral infection inflammation metabolism endocrine function disorders and neurological disorders and mediated by USP7.

The invention includes a Formula I compound for use in combination with an additional therapeutic agent in treating a disease or disorder.

The invention includes use of a Formula I compound in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of immune disorders cancer cardiovascular disease viral infection inflammation metabolism endocrine function disorders and neurological disorders and where the medicament mediates USP7.

Reference will now be made in detail to certain embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying structures and formulas. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the enumerated embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to those embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the scope of the present invention as defined by the claims. One skilled in the art will recognize many methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein which could be used in the practice of the present invention. The present invention is in no way limited to the methods and materials described. In the event that one or more of the incorporated literature patents and similar materials differs from or contradicts this application including but not limited to defined terms term usage described techniques or the like this application controls. Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the invention suitable methods and materials are described below. All publications patent applications patents and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. The nomenclature used in this Application is based on IUPAC systematic nomenclature unless indicated otherwise.

When indicating the number of substituents the term one or more refers to the range from one substituent to the highest possible number of substitution i.e. replacement of one hydrogen up to replacement of all hydrogens by substituents. The term substituent denotes an atom or a group of atoms replacing a hydrogen atom on the parent molecule. The term substituted denotes that a specified group bears one or more substituents. Where any group may carry multiple substituents and a variety of possible substituents is provided the substituents are independently selected and need not to be the same. The term unsubstituted means that the specified group bears no substituents. The term optionally substituted means that the specified group is unsubstituted or substituted by one or more substituents independently chosen from the group of possible substituents. When indicating the number of substituents the term one or more means from one substituent to the highest possible number of substitution i.e. replacement of one hydrogen up to replacement of all hydrogens by substituents.

The term alkyl as used herein refers to a saturated linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of one to twelve carbon atoms C C wherein the alkyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. In another embodiment an alkyl radical is one to eight carbon atoms C C or one to six carbon atoms C C . Examples of alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl Me CH ethyl Et CHCH 1 propyl n Pr n propyl CHCHCH 2 propyl i Pr i propyl CH CH 1 butyl n Bu n butyl CHCHCHCH 2 methyl 1 propyl i Bu i butyl CHCH CH 2 butyl s Bu s butyl CH CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 propyl t Bu t butyl C CH 1 pentyl n pentyl CHCHCHCHCH 2 pentyl CH CH CHCHCH 3 pentyl CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 butyl C CH CHCH 3 methyl 2 butyl CH CH CH CH 3 methyl 1 butyl CHCHCH CH 2 methyl 1 butyl CHCH CH CHCH 1 hexyl CHCHCHCHCHCH 2 hexyl CH CH CHCHCHCH 3 hexyl CH CHCH CHCHCH 2 methyl 2 pentyl C CH CHCHCH 3 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CH CH CHCH 4 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CHCH CH 3 methyl 3 pentyl C CH CHCH 2 methyl 3 pentyl CH CHCH CH CH 2 3 dimethyl 2 butyl C CH CH CH 3 3 dimethyl 2 butyl CH CH C CH 1 heptyl 1 octyl and the like.

The term alkylene as used herein refers to a saturated linear or branched chain divalent hydrocarbon radical of one to twelve carbon atoms C C wherein the alkylene radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. In another embodiment an alkylene radical is one to eight carbon atoms C C or one to six carbon atoms C C . Examples of alkylene groups include but are not limited to methylene CH ethylene CHCH propylene CHCHCH and the like.

The term alkenyl refers to linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to eight carbon atoms C C with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon spdouble bond wherein the alkenyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein and includes radicals having cis and trans orientations or alternatively E and Z orientations. Examples include but are not limited to ethylenyl or vinyl CH CH allyl CHCH CH and the like.

The term alkenylene refers to linear or branched chain divalent hydrocarbon radical of two to eight carbon atoms C C with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon spdouble bond wherein the alkenylene radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein and includes radicals having cis and trans orientations or alternatively E and Z orientations. Examples include but are not limited to ethylenylene or vinylene CH CH allyl CHCH CH and the like.

The term alkynyl refers to a linear or branched monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to eight carbon atoms C C with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon sp triple bond wherein the alkynyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein. Examples include but are not limited to ethynyl C CH propynyl propargyl CHC CH and the like.

The term alkynylene refers to a linear or branched divalent hydrocarbon radical of two to eight carbon atoms C C with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon sp triple bond wherein the alkynylene radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein. Examples include but are not limited to ethynylene C C propynylene propargylene CHC C and the like.

The terms carbocycle carbocyclyl carbocyclic ring and cycloalkyl refer to a monovalent non aromatic saturated or partially unsaturated ring having 3 to 12 carbon atoms C C as a monocyclic ring or 7 to 12 carbon atoms as a bicyclic ring. Bicyclic carbocycles having 7 to 12 atoms can be arranged for example as a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system and bicyclic carbocycles having 9 or 10 ring atoms can be arranged as a bicyclo 5 6 or 6 6 system or as bridged systems such as bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.2 octane and bicyclo 3.2.2 nonane. Spiro carbocyclyl moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. Examples of spiro carbocyclyl moieties include 2.2 pentanyl 2.3 hexanyl and 2.4 heptanyl. Examples of monocyclic carbocycles include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl 1 cyclopent 1 enyl 1 cyclopent 2 enyl 1 cyclopent 3 enyl cyclohexyl 1 cyclohex 1 enyl 1 cyclohex 2 enyl 1 cyclohex 3 enyl cyclohexadienyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl cyclononyl cyclodecyl cycloundecyl cyclododecyl and the like. Carbocyclyl groups are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

 Aryl means a monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6 20 carbon atoms C C derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent aromatic ring system. Some aryl groups are represented in the exemplary structures as Ar . Aryl includes bicyclic radicals comprising an aromatic ring fused to a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic ring. Typical aryl groups include but are not limited to radicals derived from benzene phenyl substituted benzenes naphthalene anthracene biphenyl indenyl indanyl 1 2 dihydronaphthalene 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthyl and the like. Aryl groups are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

 Arylene means a divalent aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6 20 carbon atoms C C derived by the removal of two hydrogen atom from a two carbon atoms of a parent aromatic ring system. Some arylene groups are represented in the exemplary structures as Ar . Arylene includes bicyclic radicals comprising an aromatic ring fused to a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic ring. Typical arylene groups include but are not limited to radicals derived from benzene phenylene substituted benzenes naphthalene anthracene biphenylene indenylene indenylene 1 2 dihydronaphthalene 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthyl and the like. Arylene groups are optionally substituted with one or more substituents described herein.

The terms heterocycle heterocyclyl and heterocyclic ring are used interchangeably herein and refer to a saturated or a partially unsaturated i.e. having one or more double and or triple bonds within the ring carbocyclic radical of 3 to about 20 ring atoms in which at least one ring atom is a heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen phosphorus and sulfur the remaining ring atoms being C where one or more ring atoms is optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. A heterocycle may be a monocycle having 3 to 7 ring members 2 to 6 carbon atoms and 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S or a bicycle having 7 to 10 ring members 4 to 9 carbon atoms and 1 to 6 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S for example a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system. Heterocycles are described in Paquette Leo A. Principles of Modern Heterocyclic Chemistry W. A. Benjamin New York 1968 particularly Chapters 1 3 4 6 7 and 9 The Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds A series of Monographs John Wiley Sons New York 1950 to present in particular Volumes 13 14 16 19 and 28 and J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1960 82 5566. Heterocyclyl also includes radicals where heterocycle radicals are fused with a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Examples of heterocyclic rings include but are not limited to morpholin 4 yl piperidin 1 yl piperazinyl piperazin 4 yl 2 one piperazin 4 yl 3 one pyrrolidin 1 yl thiomorpholin 4 yl S dioxothiomorpholin 4 yl azocan 1 yl azetidin 1 yl octahydropyrido 1 2 a pyrazin 2 yl 1 4 diazepan 1 yl pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydropyranyl dihydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl piperidino morpholino thiomorpholino thioxanyl piperazinyl homopiperazinyl azetidinyl oxetanyl thietanyl homopiperidinyl oxepanyl thiepanyl oxazepinyl diazepinyl thiazepinyl 2 pyrrolinyl 3 pyrrolinyl indolinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl pyrazolinyl dithianyl dithiolanyl dihydropyranyl dihydrothienyl dihydrofuranyl pyrazolidinylimidazolinyl imidazolidinyl 3 azabicyco 3.1.0 hexanyl 3 azabicyclo 4.1.0 heptanyl azabicyclo 2.2.2 hexanyl 3H indolyl quinolizinyl and N pyridyl ureas. Spiro heterocyclyl moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. Examples of spiro heterocyclyl moieties include azaspiro 2.5 octanyl and azaspiro 2.4 heptanyl. Examples of a heterocyclic group wherein 2 ring atoms are substituted with oxo O moieties are pyrimidinonyl and 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl. The heterocycle groups herein are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The term heteroaryl refers to a monovalent aromatic radical of 5 6 or 7 membered rings and includes fused ring systems at least one of which is aromatic of 5 20 atoms containing one or more heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. Examples of heteroaryl groups are pyridinyl including for example 2 hydroxypyridinyl imidazolyl imidazopyridinyl pyrimidinyl including for example 4 hydroxypyrimidinyl pyrazolyl triazolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl furyl thienyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxadiazolyl oxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrrolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl tetrahydroisoquinolinyl indolyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl cinnolinyl indazolyl indolizinyl phthalazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl isoindolyl pteridinyl purinyl oxadiazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl thiadiazolyl furazanyl benzofurazanyl benzothiophenyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl and furopyridinyl. Heteroaryl groups are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The heterocycle or heteroaryl groups may be carbon carbon linked or nitrogen nitrogen linked bonded where such is possible. By way of example and not limitation carbon bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 2 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridine position 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridazine position 2 4 5 or 6 of a pyrimidine position 2 3 5 or 6 of a pyrazine position 2 3 4 or 5 of a furan tetrahydrofuran thiofuran thiophene pyrrole or tetrahydropyrrole position 2 4 or 5 of an oxazole imidazole or thiazole position 3 4 or 5 of an isoxazole pyrazole or isothiazole position 2 or 3 of an aziridine position 2 3 or 4 of an azetidine position 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of a quinoline or position 1 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of an isoquinoline.

By way of example and not limitation nitrogen bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 1 of an aziridine azetidine pyrrole pyrrolidine 2 pyrroline 3 pyrroline imidazole imidazolidine 2 imidazoline 3 imidazoline pyrazole pyrazoline 2 pyrazoline 3 pyrazoline piperidine piperazine indole indoline 1H indazole position 2 of a isoindole or isoindoline position 4 of a morpholine and position 9 of a carbazole or 3 carboline.

The terms treat and treatment refer to therapeutic treatment wherein the object is to slow down lessen an undesired physiological change or disorder such as the development or spread of arthritis or cancer. For purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those with the condition or disorder.

The phrase therapeutically effective amount means an amount of a compound of the present invention that i treats the particular disease condition or disorder ii attenuates ameliorates or eliminates one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder or iii prevents or delays the onset of one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder described herein. In the case of cancer the therapeutically effective amount of the drug may reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the drug may prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. For cancer therapy efficacy can be measured for example by assessing the time to disease progression TTP and or determining the response rate RR .

The terms cancer refers to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. A tumor comprises one or more cancerous cells. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma and leukemia or lymphoid malignancies. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer e.g. epithelial squamous cell cancer lung cancer including small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer NSCLC adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer gastric or stomach cancer including gastrointestinal cancer pancreatic cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer bladder cancer hepatoma breast cancer colon cancer rectal cancer colorectal cancer endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney or renal cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma anal carcinoma penile carcinoma as well as head and neck cancer.

 Hematological malignancies British spelling Haematological malignancies are the types of cancer that affect blood bone marrow and lymph nodes. As the three are intimately connected through the immune system a disease affecting one of the three will often affect the others as well although lymphoma is a disease of the lymph nodes it often spreads to the bone marrow affecting the blood. Hematological malignancies are malignant neoplasms cancer and they are generally treated by specialists in hematology and or oncology. In some centers Hematology oncology is a single subspecialty of internal medicine while in others they are considered separate divisions there are also surgical and radiation oncologists . Not all hematological disorders are malignant cancerous these other blood conditions may also be managed by a hematologist. Hematological malignancies may derive from either of the two major blood cell lineages myeloid and lymphoid cell lines. The myeloid cell line normally produces granulocytes erythrocytes thrombocytes macrophages and mast cells the lymphoid cell line produces B T NK and plasma cells. Lymphomas lymphocytic leukemias and myeloma are from the lymphoid line while acute and chronic myelogenous leukemia myelodysplastic syndromes and myeloproliferative diseases are myeloid in origin. Leukemias include Acute lymphoblastic leukemia ALL Acute myelogenous leukemia AML Chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL Chronic myelogenous leukemia CML Acute monocytic leukemia AMOL and small lymphocytic lymphoma SLL . Lymphomas include Hodgkin s lymphomas all four subtypes and Non Hodgkin s lymphomas NHL all subtypes .

A chemotherapeutic agent is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of cancer regardless of mechanism of action. Classes of chemotherapeutic agents include but are not limited to alkylating agents antimetabolites spindle poison plant alkaloids cytotoxic antitumor antibiotics topoisomerase inhibitors antibodies photosensitizers and kinase inhibitors. Chemotherapeutic agents include compounds used in targeted therapy and conventional chemotherapy. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include ibrutinib IMBRUVICA APCI 32765 Pharmacyclics Inc. Janssen Biotech Inc. CAS Reg. No. 936563 96 1 U.S. Pat. No. 7 514 444 idelalisib formerly CAL 101 GS 1101 GS 1101 Gilead Sciences Inc. CAS Reg. No. 1146702 54 6 erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech OSI Pharm. docetaxel TAXOTERE Sanofi Aventis 5 FU fluorouracil 5 fluorouracil CAS Reg. No. 51 21 8 gemcitabine GEMZAR Lilly PD 0325901 CAS No. 391210 10 9 Pfizer cisplatin Platinol SP 4 2 diamminedichloroplatinum II cis diamine dichloroplatinum II CAS No. 15663 27 1 carboplatin CAS No. 41575 94 4 paclitaxel TAXOL Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. trastuzumab HERCEPTIN Genentech temozolomide 4 methyl 5 oxo 2 3 4 6 8 pentazabicyclo 4.3.0 nona 2 7 9 triene 9 carboxamide CAS No. 85622 93 1 TEMODAR TEMODAL Schering Plough tamoxifen Z 2 4 1 2 diphenylbut 1 enyl phenoxy N N dimethylethanamine NOLVADEX ISTUBAL VALODEX and doxorubicin ADRIAMYCIN CAS No. 23214 92 8 Akti 1 2 HPPD and rapamycin.

Chemotherapeutic agents include inhibitors of B cell receptor targets such as BTK Bcl 2 and JAK inhibitors.

More examples of chemotherapeutic agents include oxaliplatin ELOXATIN Sanofi bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. sutent SUNITINIB SU11248 Pfizer letrozole FEMARA Novartis imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC Novartis XL 518 Mek inhibitor Exelixis WO 2007 044515 ARRY 886 Mek inhibitor AZD6244 Array BioPharma Astra Zeneca SF 1126 PI3K inhibitor Semafore Pharmaceuticals BEZ 235 PI3K inhibitor Novartis XL 147 PI3K inhibitor Exelixis PTK787 ZK 222584 Novartis fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca leucovorin folinic acid rapamycin sirolimus RAPAMUNE Wyeth lapatinib TYKERB GSK572016 Glaxo Smith Kline lonafarnib SARASAR SCH 66336 Schering Plough sorafenib NEXAVAR BAY43 9006 Bayer Labs gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca irinotecan CAMPTOSAR CPT 11 Pfizer tipifarnib ZARNESTRA Johnson Johnson ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg Ill. vandetanib rINN ZD6474 ZACTIMA AstraZeneca chlorambucil AG1478 AG1571 SU 5271 Sugen temsirolimus TORISEL Wyeth pazopanib GlaxoSmithKline canfosfamide TELCYTA Telik thiotepa and cyclosphosphamide CYTOXAN NEOSAR alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethi ophosphoramide and trimethylomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone a camptothecin including the synthetic analog topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogs KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine chlorophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosoureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin calicheamicin gamma1I calicheamicin omegaI1 Angew Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl. 1994 33 183 186 dynemicin dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin carminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin nemorubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin porfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogs such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elfornithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofiran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine vinorelbine NAVELBINE novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin capecitabine XELODA Roche ibandronate CPT 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylornithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are i anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifine citrate and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERDs such as fulvestrant FASLODEX Astra Zeneca ii aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane Pfizer formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca iii anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog iv protein kinase inhibitors such as MEK inhibitors such as cobimetinib WO 2007 044515 v lipid kinase inhibitors such as taselisib GDC 0032 Genentech Inc. vi antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation for example PKC alpha Raf and H Ras such as oblimersen GENASENSE Genta Inc. vii ribozymes such as VEGF expression inhibitors e.g. ANGIOZYME and HER2 expression inhibitors viii vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN and VAXID PROLEUKIN rIL 2 topoisomerase 1 inhibitors such as LURTOTECAN ABARELIX rmRH ix anti angiogenic agents such as bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are therapeutic antibodies such as alemtuzumab Campath bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech cetuximab ERBITUX Imclone panitumumab VECTIBIX Amgen rituximab RITUXAN Genentech Biogen Idec pertuzumab PERJETA 2C4 Genentech trastuzumab HERCEPTIN Genentech trastuzumab emtansine KADCYLA Genentech Inc. and tositumomab BEXXAR Corixia .

A metabolite is a product produced through metabolism in the body of a specified compound or salt thereof. Metabolites of a compound may be identified using routine techniques known in the art and their activities determined using tests such as those described herein. Such products may result for example from the oxidation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of compounds of the invention including compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a Formula I compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products.

The term chiral refers to molecules which have the property of non superimposability of the mirror image partner while the term achiral refers to molecules which are superimposable on their mirror image partner.

The term stereoisomers refers to compounds which have identical chemical constitution but differ with regard to the arrangement of the atoms or groups in space.

 Diastereomer refers to a stereoisomer with two or more centers of chirality and whose molecules are not mirror images of one another. Diastereomers have different physical properties e.g. melting points boiling points spectral properties and reactivities. Mixtures of diastereomers may separate under high resolution analytical procedures such as electrophoresis and chromatography.

 Enantiomers refer to two stereoisomers of a compound which are non superimposable mirror images of one another.

Stereochemical definitions and conventions used herein generally follow S. P. Parker Ed. 1984 McGraw Hill Book Company New York and Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994. The compounds of the invention may contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is intended that all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the invention including but not limited to diastereomers enantiomers and atropisomers as well as mixtures thereof such as racemic mixtures form part of the present invention. Many organic compounds exist in optically active forms i.e. they have the ability to rotate the plane of plane polarized light. In describing an optically active compound the prefixes D and L or R and S are used to denote the absolute configuration of the molecule about its chiral center s . The prefixes d and 1 or and are employed to designate the sign of rotation of plane polarized light by the compound with or 1 meaning that the compound is levorotatory. A compound prefixed with or d is dextrorotatory. For a given chemical structure these stereoisomers are identical except that they are mirror images of one another. A specific stereoisomer may also be referred to as an enantiomer and a mixture of such isomers is often called an enantiomeric mixture. A 50 50 mixture of enantiomers is referred to as a racemic mixture or a racemate which may occur where there has been no stereoselection or stereospecificity in a chemical reaction or process. The terms racemic mixture and racemate refer to an equimolar mixture of two enantiomeric species devoid of optical activity. Enantiomers may be separated from a racemic mixture by a chiral separation method such as supercritical fluid chromatography SFC . Assignment of configuration at chiral centers in separated enantiomers may be tentative and depicted in Table 1 structures for illustrative purposes while stereochemistry is definitively established such as from x ray crystallographic data.

The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganization of some of the bonding electrons.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable salts denotes salts which are not biologically or otherwise undesirable. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include both acid and base addition salts. The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable indicates that the substance or composition must be compatible chemically and or toxicologically with the other ingredients comprising a formulation and or the mammal being treated therewith.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt denotes those pharmaceutically acceptable salts formed with inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid carbonic acid phosphoric acid and organic acids selected from aliphatic cycloaliphatic aromatic aryl aliphatic heterocyclic carboxylic and sulfonic classes of organic acids such as formic acid acetic acid propionic acid glycolic acid gluconic acid lactic acid pyruvic acid oxalic acid malic acid maleic acid malonic acid succinic acid fumaric acid tartaric acid citric acid aspartic acid ascorbic acid glutamic acid anthranilic acid benzoic acid cinnamic acid mandelic acid embonic acid phenylacetic acid methanesulfonic acid mesylate ethanesulfonic acid p toluenesulfonic acid and salicyclic acid.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salt denotes those pharmaceutically acceptable salts formed with an organic or inorganic base. Examples of acceptable inorganic bases include sodium potassium ammonium calcium magnesium iron zinc copper manganese and aluminum salts. Salts derived from pharmaceutically acceptable organic nontoxic bases includes salts of primary secondary and tertiary amines substituted amines including naturally occurring substituted amines cyclic amines and basic ion exchange resins such as isopropylamine trimethylamine diethylamine triethylamine tripropylamine ethanolamine 2 diethylaminoethanol trimethamine dicyclohexylamine lysine arginine histidine caffeine procaine hydrabamine choline betaine ethylenediamine glucosamine methylglucamine theobromine purines piperazine piperidine N ethylpiperidine and polyamine resins

A solvate refers to an association or complex of one or more solvent molecules and a compound of the invention. Examples of solvents that form solvates include but are not limited to water isopropanol ethanol methanol DMSO ethylacetate acetic acid and ethanolamine.

The term EC is the half maximal effective concentration and denotes the plasma concentration of a particular compound required for obtaining 50 of the maximum of a particular effect in vivo.

The term Ki is the inhibition constant and denotes the absolute binding affinity of a particular inhibitor to a receptor. It is measured using competition binding assays and is equal to the concentration where the particular inhibitor would occupy 50 of the receptors if no competing ligand e.g. a radioligand was present. Ki values can be converted logarithmically to pKi values log Ki in which higher values indicate exponentially greater potency.

The term IC is the half maximal inhibitory concentration and denotes the concentration of a particular compound required for obtaining 50 inhibition of a biological process in vitro. ICvalues can be converted logarithmically to pICvalues log IC in which higher values indicate exponentially greater potency. The ICvalue is not an absolute value but depends on experimental conditions e.g. concentrations employed and can be converted to an absolute inhibition constant Ki using the Cheng Prusoff equation Biochem. Pharmacol. 1973 22 3099 . Other percent inhibition parameters such as IC IC etc. may be calculated.

The terms compound of this invention and compounds of the present invention and compounds of Formula I include compounds of Formulas I and stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates metabolites and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof.

Any formula or structure given herein including Formula I compounds is also intended to represent hydrates solvates and polymorphs of such compounds and mixtures thereof.

Any formula or structure given herein including Formula I compounds is also intended to represent unlabeled forms as well as isotopically labeled forms of the compounds. Isotopically labeled compounds have structures depicted by the formulas given herein except that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having a selected atomic mass or mass number. Examples of isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorous fluorine and chlorine such as but not limited to 2H deuterium D 3H tritium 11C 13C 14C 15N 18F 31P 32P 35S 36Cl and 125I. Various isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention for example those into which radioactive isotopes such as 3H 13C and 14C are incorporated. Such isotopically labeled compounds may be useful in metabolic studies reaction kinetic studies detection or imaging techniques such as positron emission tomography PET or single photon emission computed tomography SPECT including drug or substrate tissue distribution assays or in radioactive treatment of patients. Deuterium labeled or substituted therapeutic compounds of the invention may have improved DMPK drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics properties relating to distribution metabolism and excretion ADME . Substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability for example increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements. An 18F labeled compound may be useful for PET or SPECT studies. Isotopically labeled compounds of this invention and prodrugs thereof can generally be prepared by carrying out the procedures disclosed in the schemes or in the examples and preparations described below by substituting a readily available isotopically labeled reagent for a non isotopically labeled reagent. Further substitution with heavier isotopes particularly deuterium i.e. 2H or D may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability for example increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements or an improvement in therapeutic index. It is understood that deuterium in this context is regarded as a substituent in the compound of the formula I . The concentration of such a heavier isotope specifically deuterium may be defined by an isotopic enrichment factor. In the compounds of this invention any atom not specifically designated as a particular isotope is meant to represent any stable isotope of that atom. Unless otherwise stated when a position is designated specifically as H or hydrogen the position is understood to have hydrogen at its natural abundance isotopic composition. Accordingly in the compounds of this invention any atom specifically designated as a deuterium D is meant to represent deuterium.

The present invention provides 2 aminopyridine compounds of Formula I including Formulas Ia If and pharmaceutical formulations thereof which are potentially useful in the treatment of diseases conditions and or disorders modulated by USP7. Dysregulation of the ubiquitin proteasome system UPS has been associated with disease pathogenesis including several types of cancer. In particular ubiquitin specific protease 7 USP7 a cysteine protease belonging to the deubiquitinase DUB family has been shown to be a critical regulator of p53.

Compounds which modulate USP7 may be identified and assessed by the NMR fragment screen methodology of Example 907. Utilizing fragment based screening by NMR 2 aminopyridine compounds of Formula I were shown to bind to the enzyme active site by X ray crystallography. Using shape based virtual screening combined with NMR site mapping Formula I compounds were found that bound to an adjacent site known as the Palm site. Crystallography guided design led to novel inhibitors that are selective for USP7 over other DUBs show activity in multiple tumor cell lines and demonstrate expected p53 Mdm2 biology.

Ris selected from F Cl Br I CN CH CHCH CH CH CHCH CH CHOH CHOCH CHCHOH C CH OH CH OH CH CH C CH CHOH CHCHSOCH CHOP O OH CHF CHF CHNH CHNHSOCH CHNHCH CHN CH CF CHCF CHCHF CH CH CN C CH CN CHCN COH COCH COCH COC CH COCH OH CH CONH CONHCH CONHCHCH CONHCH CH CON CH C CH CONH NH NHCH N CH NHCOCH N CH COCH NHS O CH N CH C CH CONH N CH CHCHS O CH NO O OH OCH OCHCH OCHCHOCH OCHCHOH OCHCHN CH OP O OH S O N CH SCH S O CH S O H cyclopropyl cyclopropylamide oxetanyl azetidinyl 1 methylazetidin 3 yl oxy N methyl N oxetan 3 ylamino azetidin 1 ylmethyl benzyloxyphenyl pyrrolidin 1 yl pyrrolidin 1 yl methanone piperazin 1 yl morpholinomethyl morpholino methanone and morpholino 

where aryl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CN CH CHCH CH CH CHCH CH CHOH CHOCH CHCHOH C CH OH CH OH CH CH C CH CHOH CHCHSOCH CHOP O OH CHF CHF CF CHCF CHCHF CH CH CN C CH CN CHCN CHNH CHNHSOCH CHNHCH CHN CH COH COCH COCH COC CH COCH OH CH CONH CONHCH CON CH C CH CONH NH NHCH N CH NHCOCH N CH COCH NHS O CH N CH C CH CONH N CH CHCHS O CH NO O OH OCH OCHCH OCHCHOCH OCHCHOH OCHCHN CH OP O OH S O N CH SCH S O CH S O H cyclopropyl cyclopropylamide oxetanyl azetidinyl 1 methylazetidin 3 yl oxy N methyl N oxetan 3 ylamino azetidin 1 ylmethyl benzyloxyphenyl pyrrolidin 1 yl pyrrolidin 1 yl methanone piperazin 1 yl morpholinomethyl morpholino methanone and morpholino.

Exemplary embodiments of Formula I compounds include wherein Ris optionally substituted C Cheteroaryl.

Exemplary embodiments of Formula I compounds include wherein Ris selected from 1H indazol 5 yl 1H indazol 6 yl 2 methylindazol 4 yl 1H benzimidazol 5 yl 2 thienyl pyrimidin 5 yl 3 pyridyl 4 pyridyl and 1H pyridin 2 one.

The Formula I compounds of the invention may contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is intended that all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the invention including but not limited to diastereomers enantiomers and atropisomers as well as mixtures thereof such as racemic mixtures form part of the present invention. In some instances the stereochemistry has not been determined or has been provisionally assigned.

In addition the present invention embraces all diastereomers including cis trans geometric and conformational isomers. For example if a Formula I compound incorporates a double bond or a fused ring the cis and trans forms as well as mixtures thereof are embraced within the scope of the invention.

In the structures shown herein where the stereochemistry of any particular chiral atom is not specified then all stereoisomers are contemplated and included as the compounds of the invention. Where stereochemistry is specified by a solid wedge or dashed line representing a particular configuration then that stereoisomer is so specified and defined.

The compounds of the present invention may exist in unsolvated as well as solvated forms with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water ethanol and the like and it is intended that the invention embrace both solvated and unsolvated forms.

The compounds of the present invention may also exist in different tautomeric forms and all such forms are embraced within the scope of the invention. The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganization of some of the bonding electrons.

The relative efficacies of Formula I compounds as inhibitors of an enzyme activity or other biological activity can be established by determining the concentrations at which each compound inhibits the activity to a predefined extent and then comparing the results. Typically the preferred determination is the concentration that inhibits 50 of the activity in a biochemical assay i.e. the 50 inhibitory concentration or IC . Determination of ICvalues can be accomplished using conventional techniques known in the art. In general an ICcan be determined by measuring the activity of a given enzyme in the presence of a range of concentrations of the inhibitor under study. The experimentally obtained values of enzyme activity then are plotted against the inhibitor concentrations used. The concentration of the inhibitor that shows 50 enzyme activity as compared to the activity in the absence of any inhibitor is taken as the ICvalue. Analogously other inhibitory concentrations can be defined through appropriate determinations of activity. For example in some settings it can be desirable to establish a 90 inhibitory concentration i.e. IC etc.

The ubiquitin intein His6 expression vector was cloned according to the methods of Example 901 to provide Ubiquitin Rhodamine 110 Glycine for screening the compounds of the invention

Examples 903 905 are collectively used to evaluate the selectivity of compounds to antagonize the activity of endogenous DUBs that are detected in an activity based profiling assay.

Example 906 provides cellular data methods Cell viability assays Incucyte Cell Titer Glo MDM2 turnover and western blots of proteins that participate in USP7 regulated signaling pathways are collectively used to evaluate the molecular and the cellular mechanisms of action of USP7 antagonists.

The methods elucidate a unique mechanism to inhibit USP7 catalytic activity that may be applicable to antagonizing other deubiquitinases.

Formula I compounds can be screened for DUB activity and specificity by MALDI TOF mass spectrometry Ritorto M. S. et al 2014 Nature Communications 5 4763 doi 10.1038 .

Cell proliferation cytotoxicity and cell viability of the Formula I compounds can be measure by the CellTiter Glo Luminescent Cell Viability Assay Promega Corp. . The CellTiter Glo Luminescent Cell Viability Assay is a homogeneous method of determining the number of viable cells in culture based on quantitation of the ATP present an indicator of metabolically active cells. The CellTiter Glo Assay is designed for use with multiwell formats making it ideal for automated high throughput screening HTS cell proliferation and cytotoxicity assays. The homogeneous assay procedure involves adding the single reagent CellTiter Glo Reagent directly to cells cultured in serum supplemented medium. Cell washing removal of medium and multiple pipetting steps are not required. The system detects as few as 15 cells well in a 384 well format in 10 minutes after adding reagent and mixing.

Exemplary Formula I compounds in Table 1 were made characterized and tested for binding to USP7 according to the methods of this invention and have the following structures corresponding names ChemBioDraw Version 12.0.2 CambridgeSoft Corp. Cambridge Mass. and biological activity. Where more than one name is associated with a Formula I compound or intermediate the chemical structure shall define the compound.

The compounds of the invention may be administered by any route appropriate to the condition to be treated. Suitable routes include oral parenteral including subcutaneous intramuscular intravenous intraarterial intradermal intrathecal and epidural transdermal rectal nasal topical including buccal and sublingual vaginal intraperitoneal intrapulmonary and intranasal. For local immunosuppressive treatment the compounds may be administered by intralesional administration including perfusing or otherwise contacting the graft with the inhibitor before transplantation. It will be appreciated that the preferred route may vary with for example the condition of the recipient. Where the compound is administered orally it may be formulated as a pill capsule tablet etc. with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. Where the compound is administered parenterally it may be formulated with a pharmaceutically acceptable parenteral vehicle and in a unit dosage injectable form as detailed below.

A dose to treat human patients may range from about 10 mg to about 1000 mg of Formula I compound. A typical dose may be about 100 mg to about 300 mg of the compound. A dose may be administered once a day QID twice per day BID or more frequently depending on the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties including absorption distribution metabolism and excretion of the particular compound. In addition toxicity factors may influence the dosage and administration regimen. When administered orally the pill capsule or tablet may be ingested daily or less frequently for a specified period of time. The regimen may be repeated for a number of cycles of therapy.

Formula I compounds of the present invention are useful for treating a human or animal patient suffering from a disease or disorder arising from abnormal cell growth function or behavior associated with USP7 such as an immune disorder cardiovascular disease viral infection inflammation a metabolism endocrine disorder or a neurological disorder may thus be treated by a method comprising the administration thereto of a compound of the present invention as defined above. A human or animal patient suffering from cancer may also be treated by a method comprising the administration thereto of a compound of the present invention as defined above. The condition of the patient may thereby be improved or ameliorated.

Methods of the invention also include treating cancer selected from breast ovary cervix prostate testis genitourinary tract esophagus larynx glioblastoma neuroblastoma stomach skin keratoacanthoma lung epidermoid carcinoma large cell carcinoma non small cell lung carcinoma NSCLC small cell carcinoma lung adenocarcinoma bone colon adenoma pancreas adenocarcinoma thyroid follicular carcinoma undifferentiated carcinoma papillary carcinoma seminoma melanoma sarcoma bladder carcinoma liver carcinoma and biliary passages kidney carcinoma pancreatic myeloid disorders lymphoma hairy cells buccal cavity naso pharyngeal pharynx lip tongue mouth small intestine colon rectum large intestine rectum brain and central nervous system Hodgkin s leukemia bronchus thyroid liver and intrahepatic bile duct hepatocellular gastric glioma glioblastoma endometrial melanoma kidney and renal pelvis urinary bladder uterine corpus uterine cervix multiple myeloma acute myelogenous leukemia chronic myelogenous leukemia lymphocytic leukemia chronic lymphoid leukemia CLL myeloid leukemia oral cavity and pharynx non Hodgkin lymphoma melanoma and villous colon adenoma.

Based on expression analysis immunohistochemical analysis and on cell line profiling malignancies of the colon breast cervix stomach lung and multiple myeloma are most likely to respond to USP7 antagonists

In order to use a compound of this invention for the therapeutic treatment of mammals including humans it is normally formulated in accordance with standard pharmaceutical practice as a pharmaceutical composition. According to this aspect of the invention there is provided a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of this invention in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier.

A typical formulation is prepared by mixing a compound of the present invention and a carrier diluent or excipient. Suitable carriers diluents and excipients are well known to those skilled in the art and include materials such as carbohydrates waxes water soluble and or swellable polymers hydrophilic or hydrophobic materials gelatin oils solvents water and the like. The particular carrier diluent or excipient used will depend upon the means and purpose for which the compound of the present invention is being applied. Solvents are generally selected based on solvents recognized by persons skilled in the art as safe GRAS to be administered to a mammal. In general safe solvents are non toxic aqueous solvents such as water and other non toxic solvents that are soluble or miscible in water. Suitable aqueous solvents include water ethanol propylene glycol polyethylene glycols e.g. PEG 400 PEG 300 etc. and mixtures thereof. The formulations may also include one or more buffers stabilizing agents surfactants wetting agents lubricating agents emulsifiers suspending agents preservatives antioxidants opaquing agents glidants processing aids colorants sweeteners perfuming agents flavoring agents and other known additives to provide an elegant presentation of the drug i.e. a compound of the present invention or pharmaceutical composition thereof or aid in the manufacturing of the pharmaceutical product i.e. medicament .

The formulations may be prepared using conventional dissolution and mixing procedures. For example the bulk drug substance i.e. compound of the present invention or stabilized form of the compound e.g. complex with a cyclodextrin derivative or other known complexation agent is dissolved in a suitable solvent in the presence of one or more of the excipients described above. The compound of the present invention is typically formulated into pharmaceutical dosage forms to provide an easily controllable dosage of the drug and to enable patient compliance with the prescribed regimen.

The pharmaceutical composition or formulation for application may be packaged in a variety of ways depending upon the method used for administering the drug. Generally an article for distribution includes a container having deposited therein the pharmaceutical formulation in an appropriate form. Suitable containers are well known to those skilled in the art and include materials such as bottles plastic and glass sachets ampoules plastic bags metal cylinders and the like. The container may also include a tamper proof assemblage to prevent indiscreet access to the contents of the package. In addition the container has deposited thereon a label that describes the contents of the container. The label may also include appropriate warnings.

Pharmaceutical formulations of the compounds of the present invention may be prepared for various routes and types of administration. For example a compound of Formula I having the desired degree of purity may optionally be mixed with pharmaceutically acceptable diluents carriers excipients or stabilizers Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 1980 16th edition Osol A. Ed. in the form of a lyophilized formulation milled powder or an aqueous solution. Formulation may be conducted by mixing at ambient temperature at the appropriate pH and at the desired degree of purity with physiologically acceptable carriers i.e. carriers that are non toxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed. The pH of the formulation depends mainly on the particular use and the concentration of compound but may range from about 3 to about 8. Formulation in an acetate buffer at pH 5 is a suitable embodiment.

The compound ordinarily can be stored as a solid composition a lyophilized formulation or as an aqueous solution.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention will be formulated dosed and administered in a fashion i.e. amounts concentrations schedules course vehicles and route of administration consistent with good medical practice. Factors for consideration in this context include the particular disorder being treated the particular mammal being treated the clinical condition of the individual patient the cause of the disorder the site of delivery of the agent the method of administration the scheduling of administration and other factors known to medical practitioners. The therapeutically effective amount of the compound to be administered will be governed by such considerations and is the minimum amount necessary to ameliorate or treat the hyperproliferative disorder.

As a general proposition the initial pharmaceutically effective amount of the inhibitor administered parenterally per dose will be in the range of about 0.01 100 mg kg namely about 0.1 to 20 mg kg of patient body weight per day with the typical initial range of compound used being 0.3 to 15 mg kg day.

Acceptable diluents carriers excipients and stabilizers are nontoxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed and include buffers such as phosphate citrate and other organic acids antioxidants including ascorbic acid and methionine preservatives such as octadecyldimethylbenzyl ammonium chloride hexamethonium chloride benzalkonium chloride benzethonium chloride phenol butyl or benzyl alcohol alkyl parabens such as methyl or propyl paraben catechol resorcinol cyclohexanol 3 pentanol and m cresol low molecular weight less than about 10 residues polypeptides proteins such as serum albumin gelatin or immunoglobulins hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone amino acids such as glycine glutamine asparagine histidine arginine or lysine monosaccharides disaccharides and other carbohydrates including glucose mannose or dextrins chelating agents such as EDTA sugars such as sucrose mannitol trehalose or sorbitol salt forming counter ions such as sodium metal complexes e.g. Zn protein complexes and or non ionic surfactants such as TWEEN PLURONICS or polyethylene glycol PEG . The active pharmaceutical ingredients may also be entrapped in microcapsules prepared for example by coacervation techniques or by interfacial polymerization for example hydroxymethylcellulose or gelatin microcapsules and poly methylmethacylate microcapsules respectively in colloidal drug delivery systems for example liposomes albumin microspheres microemulsions nano particles and nanocapsules or in macroemulsions. Such techniques are disclosed in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 16th edition Osol A. Ed. 1980 .

Sustained release preparations of compounds of Formula I may be prepared. Suitable examples of sustained release preparations include semipermeable matrices of solid hydrophobic polymers containing a compound of Formula I which matrices are in the form of shaped articles e.g. films or microcapsules. Examples of sustained release matrices include polyesters hydrogels for example poly 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate or poly vinyl alcohol polylactides U.S. Pat. No. 3 773 919 copolymers of L glutamic acid and gamma ethyl L glutamate non degradable ethylene vinyl acetate degradable lactic acid glycolic acid copolymers such as the LUPRON DEPOT injectable microspheres composed of lactic acid glycolic acid copolymer and leuprolide acetate and poly D 3 hydroxybutyric acid.

The formulations include those suitable for the administration routes detailed herein. The formulations may conveniently be presented in unit dosage form and may be prepared by any of the methods well known in the art of pharmacy. Techniques and formulations generally are found in Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. . Such methods include the step of bringing into association the active ingredient with the carrier which constitutes one or more accessory ingredients. In general the formulations are prepared by uniformly and intimately bringing into association the active ingredient with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers or both and then if necessary shaping the product.

Formulations of a compound of Formula I suitable for oral administration may be prepared as discrete units such as pills capsules cachets or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of a compound of Formula I. Compressed tablets may be prepared by compressing in a suitable machine the active ingredient in a free flowing form such as a powder or granules optionally mixed with a binder lubricant inert diluent preservative surface active or dispersing agent. Molded tablets may be made by molding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered active ingredient moistened with an inert liquid diluent. The tablets may optionally be coated or scored and optionally are formulated so as to provide slow or controlled release of the active ingredient therefrom. Tablets troches lozenges aqueous or oil suspensions dispersible powders or granules emulsions hard or soft capsules e.g. gelatin capsules syrups or elixirs may be prepared for oral use. Formulations of compounds of Formula I intended for oral use may be prepared according to any method known to the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions and such compositions may contain one or more agents including sweetening agents flavoring agents coloring agents and preserving agents in order to provide a palatable preparation. Tablets containing the active ingredient in admixture with non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable excipient which are suitable for manufacture of tablets are acceptable. These excipients may be for example inert diluents such as calcium or sodium carbonate lactose calcium or sodium phosphate granulating and disintegrating agents such as maize starch or alginic acid binding agents such as starch gelatin or acacia and lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate stearic acid or talc. Tablets may be uncoated or may be coated by known techniques including microencapsulation to delay disintegration and adsorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby provide a sustained action over a longer period. For example a time delay material such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate alone or with a wax may be employed.

For treatment of the eye or other external tissues e.g. mouth and skin the formulations are preferably applied as a topical ointment or cream containing the active ingredient s in an amount of for example 0.075 to 20 w w. When formulated in an ointment the active ingredients may be employed with either a paraffinic or a water miscible ointment base. Alternatively the active ingredients may be formulated in a cream with an oil in water cream base. If desired the aqueous phase of the cream base may include a polyhydric alcohol i.e. an alcohol having two or more hydroxyl groups such as propylene glycol butane 1 3 diol mannitol sorbitol glycerol and polyethylene glycol including PEG 400 and mixtures thereof. The topical formulations may desirably include a compound which enhances absorption or penetration of the active ingredient through the skin or other affected areas. Examples of such dermal penetration enhancers include dimethyl sulfoxide and related analogs. The oily phase of the emulsions of this invention may be constituted from known ingredients in a known manner. While the phase may comprise merely an emulsifier it desirably comprises a mixture of at least one emulsifier with a fat or an oil or with both a fat and an oil. Preferably a hydrophilic emulsifier is included together with a lipophilic emulsifier which acts as a stabilizer. It is also preferred to include both an oil and a fat. Together the emulsifier s with or without stabilizer s make up the so called emulsifying wax and the wax together with the oil and fat make up the so called emulsifying ointment base which forms the oily dispersed phase of the cream formulations. Emulsifiers and emulsion stabilizers suitable for use in the formulation of the invention include Tween 60 Span 80 cetostearyl alcohol benzyl alcohol myristyl alcohol glyceryl mono stearate and sodium lauryl sulfate.

Aqueous suspensions of Formula I compounds contain the active materials in admixture with excipients suitable for the manufacture of aqueous suspensions. Such excipients include a suspending agent such as sodium carboxymethylcellulose croscarmellose povidone methylcellulose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose sodium alginate polyvinylpyrrolidone gum tragacanth and gum acacia and dispersing or wetting agents such as a naturally occurring phosphatide e.g. lecithin a condensation product of an alkylene oxide with a fatty acid e.g. polyoxyethylene stearate a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a long chain aliphatic alcohol e.g. heptadecaethyleneoxycetanol a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a partial ester derived from a fatty acid and a hexitol anhydride e.g. polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate . The aqueous suspension may also contain one or more preservatives such as ethyl or n propyl p hydroxybenzoate one or more coloring agents one or more flavoring agents and one or more sweetening agents such as sucrose or saccharin.

The pharmaceutical compositions of compounds of Formula I may be in the form of a sterile injectable preparation such as a sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspension. This suspension may be formulated according to the known art using those suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents which have been mentioned above. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent such as a solution in 1 3 butanediol or prepared as a lyophilized powder. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils may conventionally be employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or diglycerides. In addition fatty acids such as oleic acid may likewise be used in the preparation of injectables.

The amount of active ingredient that may be combined with the carrier material to produce a single dosage form will vary depending upon the host treated and the particular mode of administration. For example a time release formulation intended for oral administration to humans may contain approximately 1 to 1000 mg of active material compounded with an appropriate and convenient amount of carrier material which may vary from about 5 to about 95 of the total compositions weight weight . The pharmaceutical composition can be prepared to provide easily measurable amounts for administration. For example an aqueous solution intended for intravenous infusion may contain from about 3 to 500 g of the active ingredient per milliliter of solution in order that infusion of a suitable volume at a rate of about 30 mL hr can occur.

Formulations suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous and non aqueous sterile injection solutions which may contain anti oxidants buffers bacteriostats and solutes which render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient and aqueous and non aqueous sterile suspensions which may include suspending agents and thickening agents.

Formulations suitable for topical administration to the eye also include eye drops wherein the active ingredient is dissolved or suspended in a suitable carrier especially an aqueous solvent for the active ingredient. The active ingredient is preferably present in such formulations in a concentration of about 0.5 to 20 w w for example about 0.5 to 10 w w for example about 1.5 w w.

Formulations suitable for topical administration in the mouth include lozenges comprising the active ingredient in a flavored basis usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth pastilles comprising the active ingredient in an inert basis such as gelatin and glycerin or sucrose and acacia and mouthwashes comprising the active ingredient in a suitable liquid carrier.

Formulations for rectal administration may be presented as a suppository with a suitable base comprising for example cocoa butter or a salicylate.

Formulations suitable for intrapulmonary or nasal administration have a particle size for example in the range of 0.1 to 500 microns including particle sizes in a range between 0.1 and 500 microns in increments microns such as 0.5 1 30 microns 35 microns etc. which is administered by rapid inhalation through the nasal passage or by inhalation through the mouth so as to reach the alveolar sacs. Suitable formulations include aqueous or oily solutions of the active ingredient. Formulations suitable for aerosol or dry powder administration may be prepared according to conventional methods and may be delivered with other therapeutic agents such as compounds heretofore used in the treatment or prophylaxis disorders as described below.

Formulations suitable for vaginal administration may be presented as pessaries tampons creams gels pastes foams or spray formulations containing in addition to the active ingredient such carriers as are known in the art to be appropriate.

The formulations may be packaged in unit dose or multi dose containers for example sealed ampoules and vials and may be stored in a freeze dried lyophilized condition requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid carrier for example water for injection immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions are prepared from sterile powders granules and tablets of the kind previously described. Preferred unit dosage formulations are those containing a daily dose or unit daily sub dose as herein above recited or an appropriate fraction thereof of the active ingredient.

The invention further provides veterinary compositions comprising at least one active ingredient as above defined together with a veterinary carrier therefore. Veterinary carriers are materials useful for the purpose of administering the composition and may be solid liquid or gaseous materials which are otherwise inert or acceptable in the veterinary art and are compatible with the active ingredient. These veterinary compositions may be administered parenterally orally or by any other desired route.

The compounds of Formula I may be employed alone or in combination with additional therapeutic agents for the treatment of a disease or disorder described herein such as inflammation or a hyperproliferative disorder e.g. cancer . In certain embodiments a compound of Formula I is combined in a pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen as combination therapy with an additional second therapeutic compound that has anti inflammatory or anti hyperproliferative properties or that is useful for treating an inflammation immune response disorder or hyperproliferative disorder e.g. cancer . The additional therapeutic may be a Bcl 2 inhibitor a JAK inhibitor an anti inflammatory agent an immunomodulatory agent chemotherapeutic agent an apoptosis enhancer a neurotropic factor an agent for treating cardiovascular disease an agent for treating liver disease an antiviral agent an agent for treating blood disorders an agent for treating diabetes and an agent for treating immunodeficiency disorders. The second therapeutic agent may be an NSAID anti inflammatory agent. The second therapeutic agent may be a chemotherapeutic agent. The second compound of the pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen preferably has complementary activities to the compound of Formula I such that they do not adversely affect each other. Such compounds are suitably present in combination in amounts that are effective for the purpose intended. In one embodiment a composition of this invention comprises a compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof in combination with a therapeutic agent such as an NSAID.

The combination therapy may be administered as a simultaneous or sequential regimen. When administered sequentially the combination may be administered in two or more administrations. The combined administration includes coadministration using separate formulations or a single pharmaceutical formulation and consecutive administration in either order wherein preferably there is a time period while both or all active agents simultaneously exert their biological activities.

Suitable dosages for any of the above coadministered agents are those presently used and may be lowered due to the combined action synergy of the newly identified agent and other therapeutic agents or treatments.

The combination therapy may provide synergy and prove synergistic i.e. the effect achieved when the active ingredients used together is greater than the sum of the effects that results from using the compounds separately. A synergistic effect may be attained when the active ingredients are 1 co formulated and administered or delivered simultaneously in a combined unit dosage formulation 2 delivered by alternation or in parallel as separate formulations or 3 by some other regimen. When delivered in alternation therapy a synergistic effect may be attained when the compounds are administered or delivered sequentially e.g. by different injections in separate syringes separate pills or capsules or separate infusions. In general during alternation therapy an effective dosage of each active ingredient is administered sequentially i.e. serially whereas in combination therapy effective dosages of two or more active ingredients are administered together.

In a particular embodiment of therapy a compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof may be combined with other therapeutic hormonal or antibody agents such as those described herein as well as combined with surgical therapy and radiotherapy. Combination therapies according to the present invention thus comprise the administration of at least one compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof and the use of at least one other cancer treatment method. The amounts of the compound s of Formula I and the other pharmaceutically active therapeutic agent s and the relative timings of administration will be selected in order to achieve the desired combined therapeutic effect.

Also falling within the scope of this invention are the in vivo metabolic products of Formula I described herein. Such products may result for example from the oxidation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of compounds of Formula I including compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

Metabolite products typically are identified by preparing a radiolabelled e.g. C or H isotope of a compound of the invention administering it parenterally in a detectable dose e.g. greater than about 0.5 mg kg to an animal such as rat mouse guinea pig monkey or to man allowing sufficient time for metabolism to occur typically about 30 seconds to 30 hours and isolating its conversion products from the urine blood or other biological samples. These products are easily isolated since they are labeled others are isolated by the use of antibodies capable of binding epitopes surviving in the metabolite . The metabolite structures are determined in conventional fashion e.g. by MS LC MS or NMR analysis. In general analysis of metabolites is done in the same way as conventional drug metabolism studies well known to those skilled in the art. The metabolite products so long as they are not otherwise found in vivo are useful in diagnostic assays for therapeutic dosing of the compounds of the invention.

In another embodiment of the invention an article of manufacture or kit containing materials useful for the treatment of the diseases and disorders described above is provided. In one embodiment the kit comprises a container comprising a compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof. The kit may further comprise a label or package insert on or associated with the container. The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products. Suitable containers include for example bottles vials syringes blister pack etc. The container may be formed from a variety of materials such as glass or plastic. The container may hold a compound of Formula I or a formulation thereof which is effective for treating the condition and may have a sterile access port for example the container may be an intravenous solution bag or a vial having a stopper pierceable by a hypodermic injection needle . At least one active agent in the composition is a compound of Formula I. The label or package insert indicates that the composition is used for treating the condition of choice such as cancer. In addition the label or package insert may indicate that the patient to be treated is one having a disorder such as a hyperproliferative disorder neurodegeneration cardiac hypertrophy pain migraine or a neurotraumatic disease or event. In one embodiment the label or package inserts indicates that the composition comprising a compound of Formula I can be used to treat a disorder resulting from abnormal cell growth. The label or package insert may also indicate that the composition can be used to treat other disorders. Alternatively or additionally the article of manufacture may further comprise a second container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

The kit may further comprise directions for the administration of the compound of Formula I and if present the second pharmaceutical formulation. For example if the kit comprises a first composition comprising a compound of Formula I and a second pharmaceutical formulation the kit may further comprise directions for the simultaneous sequential or separate administration of the first and second pharmaceutical compositions to a patient in need thereof.

In another embodiment the kits are suitable for the delivery of solid oral forms of a compound of Formula I such as tablets or capsules. Such a kit preferably includes a number of unit dosages. Such kits can include a card having the dosages oriented in the order of their intended use. An example of such a kit is a blister pack . Blister packs are well known in the packaging industry and are widely used for packaging pharmaceutical unit dosage forms. If desired a memory aid can be provided for example in the form of numbers letters or other markings or with a calendar insert designating the days in the treatment schedule in which the dosages can be administered.

According to one embodiment a kit may comprise a a first container with a compound of Formula I contained therein and optionally b a second container with a second pharmaceutical formulation contained therein wherein the second pharmaceutical formulation comprises a second compound with anti hyperproliferative activity. Alternatively or additionally the kit may further comprise a third container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

In certain other embodiments wherein the kit comprises a composition of Formula I and a second therapeutic agent the kit may comprise a container for containing the separate compositions such as a divided bottle or a divided foil packet however the separate compositions may also be contained within a single undivided container. Typically the kit comprises directions for the administration of the separate components. The kit form is particularly advantageous when the separate components are preferably administered in different dosage forms e.g. oral and parenteral are administered at different dosage intervals or when titration of the individual components of the combination is desired by the prescribing physician.

Compounds of Formula I may be synthesized by synthetic routes that include processes analogous to those well known in the chemical arts particularly in light of the description contained herein and those for other heterocycles described in Comprehensive Heterocyclic Chemistry II Editors Katritzky and Rees Elsevier 1997 e.g. Volume 3 Liebigs Annalen der Chemie 9 1910 16 1985 Helvetica Chimica Acta 41 1052 60 1958 Arzneimittel Forschung 40 12 1328 31 1990 each of which are expressly incorporated by reference. Starting materials are generally available from commercial sources such as Aldrich Chemicals Milwaukee Wis. or are readily prepared using methods well known to those skilled in the art e.g. prepared by methods generally described in Louis F. Fieser and Mary Fieser v. 1 23 Wiley N.Y. 1967 2006 ed. or 4 Aufl. ed. Springer Verlag Berlin including supplements also available via the Beilstein online database .

Synthetic chemistry transformations and protecting group methodologies protection and deprotection useful in synthesizing Formula I compounds and necessary reagents and intermediates are known in the art and include for example those described in R. Larock Comprehensive Organic Transformations VCH Publishers 1989 T. W. Greene and P. G. M. Wuts Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis 3Ed. John Wiley and Sons 1999 and L. Paquette ed. Encyclopedia of Reagents for Organic Synthesis John Wiley and Sons 1995 and subsequent editions thereof.

Compounds of Formula I may be prepared singly or as compound libraries comprising at least 2 for example 5 to 1 000 compounds or 10 to 100 compounds. Libraries of compounds of Formula I may be prepared by a combinatorial split and mix approach or by multiple parallel syntheses using either solution phase or solid phase chemistry by procedures known to those skilled in the art. Thus according to a further aspect of the invention there is provided a compound library comprising at least 2 compounds or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

The Examples provide exemplary methods for preparing Formula I compounds. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other synthetic routes may be used to synthesize the Formula I compounds. Although specific starting materials and reagents are depicted and discussed in the Figures and Examples other starting materials and reagents can be easily substituted to provide a variety of derivatives and or reaction conditions. In addition many of the exemplary compounds prepared by the described methods can be further modified in light of this disclosure using conventional chemistry well known to those skilled in the art.

In preparing compounds of Formulas I protection of remote functionality e.g. primary or secondary amine of intermediates may be necessary. The need for such protection will vary depending on the nature of the remote functionality and the conditions of the preparation methods. Suitable amino protecting groups include acetyl trifluoroacetyl t butoxycarbonyl BOC benzyloxycarbonyl CBz and 9 fluorenylmethyleneoxycarbonyl Fmoc . The need for such protection is readily determined by one skilled in the art. For a general description of protecting groups and their use see T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis John Wiley Sons New York 1991.

In the methods of preparing Formula I compounds it may be advantageous to separate reaction products from one another and or from starting materials. The desired products of each step or series of steps is separated and or purified to the desired degree of homogeneity by the techniques common in the art. Typically such separations involve multiphase extraction crystallization from a solvent or solvent mixture distillation sublimation or chromatography. Chromatography can involve any number of methods including for example reverse phase and normal phase size exclusion ion exchange high medium and low pressure liquid chromatography methods and apparatus small scale analytical simulated moving bed SMB and preparative thin or thick layer chromatography as well as techniques of small scale thin layer and flash chromatography.

Another class of separation methods involves treatment of a mixture with a reagent selected to bind to or render otherwise separable a desired product unreacted starting material reaction by product or the like. Such reagents include adsorbents or absorbents such as activated carbon molecular sieves ion exchange media or the like. Alternatively the reagents can be acids in the case of a basic material bases in the case of an acidic material binding reagents such as antibodies binding proteins selective chelators such as crown ethers liquid liquid ion extraction reagents LIX or the like. Selection of appropriate methods of separation depends on the nature of the materials involved such as boiling point and molecular weight in distillation and sublimation presence or absence of polar functional groups in chromatography stability of materials in acidic and basic media in multiphase extraction and the like.

Diastereomeric mixtures can be separated into their individual diastereomers on the basis of their physical chemical differences by methods well known to those skilled in the art such as by chromatography and or fractional crystallization. Enantiomers can be separated by converting the enantiomeric mixture into a diastereomeric mixture by reaction with an appropriate optically active compound e.g. chiral auxiliary such as a chiral alcohol or Mosher s acid chloride separating the diastereomers and converting e.g. hydrolyzing the individual diastereoisomers to the corresponding pure enantiomers. Also some of the compounds of the present invention may be atropisomers e.g. substituted biaryls and are considered as part of this invention. Enantiomers can also be separated by use of a chiral HPLC column.

A single stereoisomer e.g. an enantiomer substantially free of its stereoisomer may be obtained by resolution of the racemic mixture using a method such as formation of diastereomers using optically active resolving agents Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994 Lochmuller C. H. 1975 J. Chromatogr. 113 3 283 302 . Racemic mixtures of chiral compounds of the invention can be separated and isolated by any suitable method including 1 formation of ionic diastereomeric salts with chiral compounds and separation by fractional crystallization or other methods 2 formation of diastereomeric compounds with chiral derivatizing reagents separation of the diastereomers and conversion to the pure stereoisomers and 3 separation of the substantially pure or enriched stereoisomers directly under chiral conditions. See Drug Stereochemistry Analytical Methods and Pharmacology Irving W. Wainer Ed. Marcel Dekker Inc. New York 1993 .

Under method 1 diastereomeric salts can be formed by reaction of enantiomerically pure chiral bases such as brucine quinine ephedrine strychnine methyl phenylethylamine amphetamine and the like with asymmetric compounds bearing acidic functionality such as carboxylic acid and sulfonic acid. The diastereomeric salts may be induced to separate by fractional crystallization or ionic chromatography. For separation of the optical isomers of amino compounds addition of chiral carboxylic or sulfonic acids such as camphorsulfonic acid tartaric acid mandelic acid or lactic acid can result in formation of the diastereomeric salts.

Alternatively by method 2 the substrate to be resolved is reacted with one enantiomer of a chiral compound to form a diastereomeric pair E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. 1994 p. 322 . Diastereomeric compounds can be formed by reacting asymmetric compounds with enantiomerically pure chiral derivatizing reagents such as menthyl derivatives followed by separation of the diastereomers and hydrolysis to yield the pure or enriched enantiomer. A method of determining optical purity involves making chiral esters such as a menthyl ester e.g. menthyl chloroformate in the presence of base or Mosher ester methoxy trifluoromethyl phenyl acetate Jacob III. J. Org. Chem. 1982 47 4165 of the racemic mixture and analyzing the H NMR spectrum for the presence of the two atropisomeric enantiomers or diastereomers. Stable diastereomers of atropisomeric compounds can be separated and isolated by normal and reverse phase chromatography following methods for separation of atropisomeric naphthyl isoquinolines WO 96 15111 . By method 3 a racemic mixture of two enantiomers can be separated by chromatography using a chiral stationary phase Chiral Liquid Chromatography 1989 W. J. Lough Ed. Chapman and Hall New York Okamoto J. Chromatogr. 1990 513 375 378 . Enriched or purified enantiomers can be distinguished by methods used to distinguish other chiral molecules with asymmetric carbon atoms such as optical rotation and circular dichroism.

Following the procedures of Examples 5 7 1 was prepared. LCMS 0 60 AB 2 min 0.927 min MS 293.1 M 1 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD d 9.55 9.37 br 2H 8.14 s 1H 7.08 d J 8.4 Hz 4H 7.03 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.88 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.78 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 4.96 br 2H 1.80 s 3H .

Following the procedures of Examples 5 7 and 15 2 was prepared. LCMS 5 95 AB 1.5 min 0.694 min MS 306.9 M 1 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD d 8.27 s 1H 7.62 s 1H 7.15 7.09 m 4H 6.95 d J 9.2 Hz 2H 6.83 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 2.39 q 2H 0.70 t J 7.2 Hz 3H 

Following the procedures of Examples 5 7 3 was prepared. LCMS 10 80 AB 2 min 0.923 min MS 321.1 M 1 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD d 9.54 9.41 br 2H 8.14 s 1H 7.58 s 1H 7.05 7.00 m 4H 6.87 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 6.76 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 4.78 s 2H 2.90 2.82 m 1H 0.78 t J 7.2 Hz 6H .

Following the procedures of Examples 5 7 4 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d6 9.50 s 1H 9.39 d J 13.4 Hz 1H 7.82 s 1H 7.29 7.21 m 2H 7.17 7.08 m 2H 6.90 6.75 m 4H 5.18 s 2H 3.09 s 3H . M H m z 309

To a solution of 4 trifluoromethyl pyridin 2 amine 5a 1.0 g 6.17 mmol in DMF 20 mL was added NBS 2.31 g 12.95 mmol at r.t. After the mixture was stirred overnight at 55 C. it was poured into water 50 mL and extracted with DCM 50 mL 3 . The combined organic layers was washed with brine 50 mL and dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by column PE EtOAc 5 1 to 3 1 to give 3 5 dibromo 4 trifluoromethyl pyridin 2 amine 5b 1.2 g yield 61 .

To a solution of 5b 100 mg 0.32 mmol in dioxane 10 mL HO 2 mL was added 4 hydroxyphenyl boronic acid 108 mg 0.78 mmol NaCO 331 mg 3.13 mmol and Pd PPh Cl 32.9 mg 0.047 mmol . The mixture was stirred at 90 100 C. for 3 h and poured into water 10 mL . The resulting mixture was extracted with EtOAc 10 mL 2 . The combined organic layers was washed with brine 10 mL and dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by pre HPLC to give 5 58.48 mg 54 . LCMS 5 95 AB 1.5 min 0.718 min MS 346.8 M 1 H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d6 9.82 9.55 br 2H 7.96 s 1H 7.13 7.10 m 4H 6.91 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.81 d J 8.8 Hz 2H .

To a solution of 4 propylpyridin 2 amine 6a 500 mg 3.67 mmol in CCl 10 mL was added NBS 1.37 g 7.71 mmol at r.t. After the mixture was stirred overnight at r.t. it was poured into water 20 mL and was extracted with DCM 20 mL 3 . The combined organic layers was washed with brine 10 mL and dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by column PE EtOAc 5 1 to 3 1 to give 3 5 dibromo 4 propylpyridin 2 amine 6b 800 mg yield 74 .

To a solution of 6b 100 mg 0.34 mmol in dioxane 10 mL HO 2 mL was added 4 hydroxyphenyl boronic acid 103 mg 0.75 mmol NaCO 360 mg 3.4 mmol and Pd PPh Cl 35.8 mg 0.051 mmol . After the mixture was stirred at 90 100 C. for 3 hours h it was poured into water 10 mL . The resulting mixture was extracted with EtOAc 10 mL 2 . The combined organic layers was washed with saturated NaCl 10 mL and dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by pre HPLC to give 6 22.7 mg 21 . LCMS 5 95 AB 1.5 min 0.716 min MS 320.9 M 1 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD d 7.60 s 1H 7.18 7.12 m 4H 6.99 6.97 m 2H 6.87 6.85 m 2H 2.40 2.36 m 2H 1.17 1.11 m 2H 0.53 0.49 t J 7.4 Hz 3H .

To a solution of 4 ethylpyridin 2 amine 7a 1.0 g 8.19 mmol in CCl 20 mL was added N bromosuccinimide NBS 3.06 g 17.19 mmol at room temperature r.t. . After the mixture was stirred overnight it was put into water 50 mL and extracted with DCM 50 mL 3 . The combined organic layers was washed with brine 50 mL dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by column PE EtOAc 5 1 to 3 1 to give 3 5 dibromo 4 ethylpyridin 2 amine 7b 1.5 g yield 65.5 .

To a solution of 7b 600 mg 2.14 mmol in dioxane 10 mL HO 2 mL was added 2 fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl boronic acid 327.8 mg 1.93 mmol NaCO 681.45 mg 6.43 mmol and Pd PPh Cl 150.43 mg 0.214 mmol . Then the mixture was stirred at 90 100 C. for 3 h and poured into water 20 mL . The mixture was extracted with EtOAc 50 mL 2 . The combined organic layers was washed with sat NaCl 30 mL and dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by column PE EtOAc 3 1 to 1 1 to give 3 bromo 4 ethyl 5 2 fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl pyridin 2 amine 7c 300 mg yield 63 .

To a solution of 7c 300 mg 0.92 mmol in dioxane 10 mL HO 2 mL was added 4 hydroxyphenyl boronic acid 191 mg 1.38 mmol NaCO 293 mg 2.77 mmol and Pd PPh Cl 65 mg 0.092 mmol . After the mixture was stirred at 90 100 C. for 3 h it was poured into water 20 mL . The mixture was extracted with EtOAc 50 mL 2 . The combined organic layers was washed with brine 30 mL dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by column PE EtOAc 3 1 to 1 1 to give 4 2 amino 4 ethyl 5 2 fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl pyridin 3 yl phenol 7d 200 mg yield 64 .

To a solution of 7d 200 mg 0.59 mmol in DCM 10 mL was added was added BBr 0.5 mL dropwise at 0 C. with stirring. After the mixture was stirred at r.t. for 2 h it was quenched by addition of methanol 10 mL . The pH was adjusted to about 7 with ammonium hydroxide. The residue was purified by pre HPLC to give 7 64.2 mg yield 34 . LCMS 5 95 AB 1.5 min 0.709 min MS 324.9 M 1 H NMR 400 MHz MeOD d 7.66 s 1H 7.17 7.12 m 3H 7.00 6.97 m 2H 6.72 6.70 m 1H 6.65 6.61 m 1H 2.35 q 2H 0.73 0.70 t J 7.6 Hz 3H .

A mixture of 4 bromopyridin 2 amine 9a 2.0 g 11.6 mmol cyclopropylboronic acid 1.5 g 17.4 mmol Pd dppf 2Cl 85 mg 0.12 mmol and KCO 3.2 g 23.2 mmol in dioxane water 20 mL 4 mL was stirred at 90 C. for 4 h under N. After it was cooled to r.t. the mixture was extracted with EtOAc 200 mL 3 washed with brine 200 mL dried concentrated and purified by column to give 4 cyclopropylpyridin 2 amine 9b as a solid 650 mg yield 42 . LCMS 0 60 AB 2.0 min 0.810 min MS 135.2 M 1 

To a solution of 9b 650 mg 4.8 mmol in MeCN 20 mL was added NBS 1.71 g 9.6 mmol . After the mixture was stirred at r.t. for 4 h under N it was extracted with EtOAc 100 mL 3 washed with brine 200 mL dried concentrated and purified by column to give 3 5 dibromo 4 cyclopropylpyridin 2 amine 9c as a solid 1.0 g yield 71 . LCMS 0 60 AB 2.0 min 0.810 min MS 290.9 M 1 

To a solution of 9c 100 mg 0.34 mmol 4 hydroxyphenyl boronic acid 100 mg 0.68 mmol Pd dppf 2Cl 40 mg 0.05 mmol and KCO 145 mg 1.03 mmol in dioxane water 5 mL 1 mL . After the mixture was stirred at 100 C. for 4 h under N it was cooled to r.t. The mixture was extracted with EtOAc 20 mL 3 washed with brine 20 mL dried concentrated and purified by Pre HPLC to give 9 3.3 mg yield 3 . LCMS 5 95 AB 1.5 min 0.810 min MS 318.9 M 1 . H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 7.68 s 1H 7.29 7.22 m 4H 7.00 d J 8.8 2H 6.88 d J 8.8 2H 1.91 1.84 m 1H 0.48 0.43 m 2H 0.04 0.00 m 2H 

Following the procedures of Example 11 10 was prepared. LCMS 5 95 AB 1.5 min 0.744 min MS 338.8 M 1 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD d 7.67 s 1H 7.28 7.18 m 3H 6.99 6.87 m 4H 3.88 s 3H 2.50 2.38 m 2H 0.74 0.71 t J 7.4 Hz 3H 

Following Example 7 to a solution of 4 ethylpyridin 2 amine 7a 1.0 g 8.19 mmol in CCl 20 mL was added NBS 3.06 g 17.19 mmol at r.t. After the mixture was stirred overnight it was pour into water 50 mL and extracted with DCM 50 mL 3 . The combined organic layers was washed with brine 50 mL dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by column PE EtOAc 5 1 to 3 1 to give 3 5 dibromo 4 ethylpyridin 2 amine 7b 1.6 g yield 70 .

To a solution of 7b 1.6 g 5.76 mmol in dioxane 15 mL HO 3 mL was added 4 hydroxyphenyl boronic acid 709 mg 5.14 mmol NaCO 1.82 g 17.15 mmol and Pd PPh Cl 401 mg 0.57 mmol . After the mixture was stirred at 90 100 C. for 3 h it was poured into water 20 mL . The resulting mixture was extracted with EtOAc 50 mL 2 . The combined organic layers was washed with sat NaCl 30 mL and dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by pre HPLC to give 4 6 amino 5 bromo 4 ethylpyridin 3 yl phenol 11a 380 mg yield 22 .

To a solution of 11a 380 mg 1.3 mmol in dioxane 4 mL HO 0.5 mL was added 2 fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl boronic acid 330 mg 1.94 mmol NaCO 412 mg 3.89 mmol and Pd PPh Cl 91 mg 0.061 mmol . After the mixture was purged and heated under microwave irradiation at 120 C. for 30 min it was poured into water 20 mL . The resulting mixture was extracted with EtOAc 30 mL 2 . The combined organic layers was washed with brine 20 mL dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by column PE EtOAc 3 1 to 1 1 to give 4 2 amino 4 ethyl 5 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 pyridyl 3 fluoro phenol 10 150 mg yield 34 . LCMS 5 95 AB 1.5 min 0.744 min MS 338.8 M 1 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD d 7.67 s 1H 7.28 7.18 m 3H 6.99 6.87 m 4H 3.88 s 3H 2.50 2.38 m 2H 0.74 0.71 t J 7.4 Hz 3H 

To a solution of 10 50 mg 0.15 mmol in DCM 6 mL was added was added BBr 0.3 mL dropwise with stirring at 0 C. After the mixture was stirred at r.t. for 2 h it was quenched with methanol 10 mL . The pH was adjusted to around 7 with NH HO ammonium hydroxide . The residue was purified by pre HPLC to give 11 28 mg yield 60 . LCMS 5 95 AB 1.5 min 0.702 min MS 324.8 M 1 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD d 7.65 s 1H 7.20 7.12 m 3H 6.89 6.71 m 4H 2.50 2.38 m 2H 0.74 0.70 t J 7.6 Hz 3H 

Following the procedures of Examples 5 7 12 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d6 9.57 s 1H 7.74 s 1H 7.49 d J 5.6 Hz 3H 7.08 7.01 m 2H 6.94 6.86 m 2H 5.07 s 2H 4.21 s 2H 2.64 s 6H 0.62 t J 7.4 Hz 3H . M H m z 348

Following Example 7 to a solution of 4 ethylpyridin 2 amine 7a 4.0 g 32.7 mmol in CCl 100 mL was added NBS 12.2 g 68.8 mmol at r.t. After the mixture was stirred at r.t. overnight it was poured into water 50 mL extracted with DCM 100 mL 3 . The combined organic layers was washed with brine 50 mL dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by column PE EtOAc 5 1 to 3 1 to give 3 5 dibromo 4 ethylpyridin 2 amine 7b 7.6 g yield 83 .

To a solution of 7b 6.9 g 24.7 mmol in THF 100 mL was added DMAP 3.01 g 24.7 mmol and Boc O 16.1 g 73.9 mmol . After the mixture was stirred at r.t. for 5 h it was poured into water 100 mL . It was extracted with EtOAc 100 mL 2 and the combined organic layers was washed with brine 30 mL dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by column PE EtOAc 50 1 to 10 1 to give 3 5 dibromo 4 ethylpyridin 2 bis tert butyloxycarbonyl amine 13a. 10 g yield 85 .

To a solution of 13a 600 mg 1.25 mmol in dioxane 10 mL HO 2 mL was added 3 acetamidophenyl boronic acid 13b 224 mg 1.25 mmol NaCO 397 mg 3.75 mmol and Pd PPh Cl 87.7 mg 0.12 mmol . After the mixture was stirred at 90 100 C. for 3 h under N it was poured into water 10 mL and extracted with EtOAc 20 mL 2 . The combined organic layers was washed with brine 10 mL and dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by column PE EtOAc 3 1 to 1 1 to give N 3 6 bis tert butyloxycarbonyl amino 5 bromo 4 ethylpyridin 3 yl phenyl acetamide 13c 370 mg yield 55 .

To a solution of compound 13c 370 mg 0.69 mmol in DCM 10 mL was added HCl EtOAc 5 mL at r.t. After the mixture was stirred at r.t. for 1 h it was concentrated to give crude N 3 6 amino 5 bromo 4 ethylpyridin 3 yl phenyl acetamide 13d which was used for the next step directly 200 mg 87 

To a solution of 13d 100 mg 0.3 mmol in dioxane HO 3 mL was added thiophen 2 ylboronic acid 13e 76.6 mg 0.6 mmol NaCO 159 1.5 mmol PdCl PPh 21 mg 0.03 mmol at r.t. It was purged and heated under microwave irradiation at 120 C. for 30 min. The reaction mixture was poured into water 10 mL and was extracted with EtOAc 15 mL 3 . The combined organic layers was washed with brine 10 mL dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by prep HPLC to give 13 23 mg yield 24 . LCMS 5 95 AB 1.5 min 0.735 min MS 337.8 M 1 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD d 7.75 7.73 m 3H 7.53 7.50 m 1H 7.44 7.40 m 1H 7.28 7.26 m 1H 7.20 7.19 m 1H 7.12 7.10 m 1H 2.56 2.51 m 2H 2.13 s 3H 0.82 t J 7.6 Hz 3H .

Following the procedures of Example 13 14 was prepared. LCMS 5 95 AB 1.5 min 0.731 min MS 371.9 M 1 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD d 8.21 s 1H 8.02 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 7.83 s 1H 7.76 s 1H 7.61 s 1H 7.48 7.41 m 2H 7.15 7.10 m 2H 2.51 2.44 m 2H 2.14 s 3H 0.75 t J 7.6 Hz 3H 

To solution of 3 5 dibromo 4 ethylpyridin 2 amine 7b 600 mg 2.14 mmol in dioxane HO 15 mL 5 mL was added 4 hydroxyphenyl boronic acid 621 mg 4.50 mmol NaCO 1.80 g 17.2 mmol and Pd PPh Cl 150 mg 0.21 mmol under N. After the reaction mixture was stirred at 100 C. for 5 h under N it was concentrated and poured into water. It was extracted with EtOAc 20 mL 3 . The organic layer was evaporated and purified by column chromatography on silica gel PE EtOAc 3 1 to give 4 6 amino 4 ethyl 5 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 pyridyl phenol 2 450 mg yield 69 .

To a stirred solution of 3 50 mg 0.16 mmol in DCE 3.0 mL was added propionaldehyde 10.4 mg 0.179 mmol . After the reaction mixture was stirred at 40 C. for 16 h NaBH OAc 69.18 mg 0.326 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at 40 C. for 0.5 h and was concentrated purified by prep HPLC to give 15 3.0 mg yield 5 . LCMS 5 95 AB 1.5 min 0.753 min MS 348.9 M 1 . H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 7.53 s 1H 7.20 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.19 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.01 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.89 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 3.31 3.29 m 2H 2.45 2.39 m 2H 1.64 1.59 m 2H 0.96 0.92 t J 5.2 Hz 3H 0.74 0.70 t J 7.6 Hz 3H 

A solution of 4 ethyl pyridine 2 amine 7a 10 g 82 mmol in 300 ml of THF was cooled to 0 C. and charged with N Bromosuccinimide 14.7 g 82 mmol . The mixture was then stirred at 0 C. for an additional 15 minutes. The mixture was then concentrated down and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography 0 5 MeOH in DCM to afford 5 bromo 4 ethylpyridin 2 amine 16a 12 g 72 yield . M H m z 201

A solution of 16a 1.0 g 5.0 mmol in 12 ml of acetonitrile was charged with 4 methoxy boronic acid 907 mg 6.0 mmol bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 364 mg 0.5 mmol and 12 ml of 1M Potassium Carbonate. The mixture was then heated at 120 C. for 5 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with ethyl acetate and water. The layers were separated aqueous and the organic layer was washed once with water dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was then purified by silica gel chromatography 1 15 MeOH in DCM to afford 4 ethyl 5 4 methoxyphenyl pyridin 2 amine 16b 900 mg 3.9 mmol . M H m z 229

A solution of 16b 9.5 g 42 mmol in 100 ml of THF was charged with N Bromosuccinimide 7.5 g 42 mmol and stirred at room temperature for 15 minutes. The mixture was then concentrated in vacuo and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography 0 5 MeOH in DCM to afford 3 bromo 2 ethyl 4 methoxybiphenyl 4 amine 16c 8.6 g 67 yield . M H m z 306

A solution of 16c 6.6 g 21 mmol in 40 ml of THF was charged with 64 ml of 1M Boron Tribromide in DCM. After stirring at room temperature for 15 minutes the mixture was then cooled 0 C. and charged with 100 ml of saturated sodium carbonate. The layers were separated and the organic was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford 4 6 amino 5 bromo 4 ethylpyridin 3 yl phenol 16d 5.7 g 90 yield . M H m z 293

A solution of 16d 59 mg 0.2 mmol in 0.5 ml of 1 4 dioxane was charged with phenylboronic acid 36 mg 0.3 mmol bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II 14 mg 0.02 mmol and 0.5 ml of 1M KCO. The mixture was then heated at 120 C. for 5 minutes. The mixture was then diluted with ethyl acetate and water. The layers were separated and the organic layer was washed once with water dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was then purified by reverse phase preparatory HPLC to afford 16 29 mg 50 yield . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.39 s 1H 7.70 s 1H 7.56 7.46 m 2H 7.46 7.35 m 1H 7.30 7.22 m 2H 7.14 7.06 m 2H 6.84 6.75 m 2H 4.90 s 2H 2.22 q J 7.5 Hz 2H 0.61 t J 7.4 Hz 3H . M H m z 291.

Following the procedures of Example 16 17 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.39 s 1H 7.69 s 1H 7.39 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.26 7.18 m 1H 7.14 7.01 m 4H 6.84 6.75 m 2H 4.89 s 2H 2.36 s 3H 2.28 2.17 m 2H 0.62 t J 7.5 Hz 3H . M H m z 305

Following the procedures of Example 16 18 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.40 s 1H 7.70 s 1H 7.53 dt J 10.9 8.5 Hz 1H 7.36 ddd J 11.4 7.9 2.1 Hz 1H 7.14 7.04 m 3H 6.84 6.75 m 2H 5.17 s 2H 2.22 q J 7.5 Hz 2H 0.63 t J 7.4 Hz 3H . M H m z 327

Following the procedures of Example 16 19 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.40 s 1H 7.87 dt J 7.8 1.4 Hz 1H 7.77 7.63 m 3H 7.60 dt J 7.8 1.5 Hz 1H 7.14 7.05 m 2H 6.85 6.76 m 2H 5.16 s 2H 2.18 q J 7.5 Hz 2H 0.60 t J 7.4 Hz 3H . M H m z 316

Following the procedures of Example 16 20 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.41 s 1H 8.03 d J 8.3 Hz 2H 7.74 s 1H 7.55 d J 8.3 Hz 2H 7.10 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 6.84 6.77 m 2H 5.11 d J 5.3 Hz 2H 2.21 q J 7.5 Hz 2H 0.62 t J 7.5 Hz 3H . M H m z 369

Following the procedures of Example 16 21 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.44 s 1H 9.38 s 1H 7.67 s 1H 7.61 7.41 m 3H 7.17 7.04 m 4H 6.79 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 4.90 s 2H 3.27 s 1H 2.23 q J 7.4 Hz 2H 1.48 d J 8.3 Hz 9H 0.61 t J 7.4 Hz 3H . M H m z 406

Following the procedures of Example 16 22 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.38 s 1H 7.68 s 1H 7.35 dd J 8.4 7.4 Hz 1H 7.13 7.06 m 2H 6.97 dd J 8.4 2.2 Hz 1H 6.85 6.75 m 3H 6.68 dt J 7.4 1.1 Hz 1H 4.89 s 2H 3.73 t J 4.8 Hz 5H 3.21 3.05 m 3H 2.32 2.18 m 2H 0.64 t J 7.4 Hz 3H . M H m z 376

Following the procedures of Example 16 23 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.39 s 1H 7.69 s 1H 7.45 t J 7.5 Hz 1H 7.36 s 1H 7.33 7.19 m 1H 7.16 7.05 m 4H 6.80 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 4.91 s 2H 4.18 d J 6.0 Hz 2H 2.22 q J 7.3 Hz 2H 1.37 s 9H 0.61 t J 7.4 Hz 3H . M H m z 421

Following the procedures of Example 16 24 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.39 s 1H 7.70 s 1H 7.49 t J 7.9 Hz 1H 7.36 dt J 7.6 1.4 Hz 1H 7.19 s 1H 7.22 7.15 m 1H 7.14 7.06 m 2H 6.84 6.75 m 2H 4.90 s 2H 4.47 s 2H 3.29 d J 13.5 Hz 3H 2.22 qd J 7.5 1.9 Hz 2H 0.61 t J 7.5 Hz 3H . M H m z 335

Following the procedures of Example 16 25 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.39 s 1H 7.69 s 1H 7.44 d J 8.1 Hz 2H 7.24 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.10 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 6.83 6.76 m 2H 4.90 s 2H 4.48 s 2H 3.31 d J 27.5 Hz 3H 2.22 q J 7.4 Hz 2H 0.61 t J 7.5 Hz 3H . M H m z 335

Following the procedures of Example 16 26 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.39 s 1H 7.70 s 1H 7.46 t J 7.5 Hz 1H 7.34 dt J 7.7 1.4 Hz 1H 7.22 7.05 m 4H 6.83 6.76 m 2H 4.91 s 2H 3.60 3.46 m 6H 2.37 t J 4.5 Hz 2H 2.21 dt J 8.2 6.4 Hz 2H 0.60 t J 7.4 Hz 3H . M H m z 390

Following the procedures of Example 16 27 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.40 s 1H 7.71 s 1H 7.54 t J 7.8 Hz 1H 7.40 dt J 7.6 1.3 Hz 1H 7.23 dq J 4.2 1.5 Hz 2H 7.14 7.07 m 2H 6.84 6.76 m 2H 4.97 s 2H 4.10 s 2H 2.21 q J 7.5 Hz 2H 0.62 t J 7.4 Hz 3H . M H m z 330

Following the procedures of Example 16 28 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.39 s 1H 7.70 s 1H 7.53 s 2H 7.41 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.10 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 6.80 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 4.92 s 2H 3.26 d J 12.4 Hz 3H 2.27 2.19 m 2H 1.41 s 9H 0.62 t J 7.4 Hz 3H . M H m z 421

Following the procedures of Example 16 29 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.42 s 1H 9.04 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 8.73 d J 2.1 Hz 1H 8.33 8.27 m 1H 7.76 s 1H 7.14 7.05 m 2H 6.85 6.76 m 2H 5.43 s 2H 2.17 q J 7.5 Hz 2H 0.61 t J 7.5 Hz 3H . M H m z 317

Following the procedures of Example 16 30 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.81 s 1H 9.39 s 1H 7.68 s 1H 7.32 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 7.26 7.18 m 2H 7.12 7.05 m 2H 6.83 6.76 m 2H 4.99 s 2H 3.04 s 3H 2.23 q J 7.3 Hz 2H 0.62 t J 7.5 Hz 3H . M H m z 384

Following the procedures of Example 16 31 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.41 d J 17.0 Hz 2H 7.69 s 1H 7.60 7.44 m 2H 7.50 s 2H 7.10 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 6.82 dd J 18.5 8.0 Hz 2H 4.92 s 2H 2.22 q J 7.4 Hz 2H 1.47 s 9H 0.64 t J 7.5 Hz 3H . M H m z 406

Following the procedures of Example 89 32 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.51 s 1H 7.59 s 1H 7.33 7.17 m 3H 7.18 7.05 m 2H 7.05 dt J 9.2 2.0 Hz 2H 6.92 6.85 m 2H 4.93 s 2H 3.27 s 3H 2.07 s 3H 1.99 1.85 m 1H 0.55 t J 7.5 Hz 3H . M H m z 293

Following the procedures of Example 89 33 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.51 s 1H 7.59 s 1H 7.33 7.17 m 3H 7.18 7.05 m 2H 7.05 dt J 9.2 2.0 Hz 2H 6.92 6.85 m 2H 4.93 s 2H 3.27 s 3H 2.07 s 3H 0.55 t J 7.5 Hz 3H . M H m z 305

Following the procedures of Example 89 34 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.52 s 1H 7.69 s 1H 7.39 7.30 m 2H 7.28 7.18 m 2H 7.09 7.01 m 2H 6.92 6.85 m 2H 4.99 s 2H 3.27 s 2H 2.23 q J 7.4 Hz 2H 0.61 t J 7.5 Hz 3H . M H m z 309

Following the procedures of Example 89 35 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.52 s 1H 8.38 d J 2.2 Hz 1H 7.70 s 1H 7.64 dd J 7.9 2.4 Hz 1H 7.29 d J 7.9 Hz 1H 7.11 7.01 m 2H 6.93 6.84 m 2H 5.05 s 2H 3.27 s 3H 2.23 q J 7.4 Hz 2H 0.61 t J 7.4 Hz 3H . M H m z 306

Following the procedures of Example 89 36 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.51 s 1H 7.67 s 1H 7.26 7.11 m 4H 7.13 7.01 m 2H 6.92 6.84 m 2H 4.97 s 2H 3.27 s 1H 2.34 s 3H 2.25 q J 7.4 Hz 2H 0.61 t J 7.4 Hz 3H . M H m z 305

Following the procedures of Example 89 37 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.52 s 1H 7.70 s 1H 7.46 7.27 m 5H 7.06 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 6.92 6.85 m 2H 5.01 s 2H 3.27 s 2H 2.26 q J 7.5 Hz 2H 0.61 t J 7.4 Hz 3H . M H m z 291

Following the procedures of Example 89 38 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.52 d J 12.2 Hz 1H 8.62 8.56 m 1H 7.75 s 1H 7.40 7.33 m 1H 7.13 6.95 m 2H 6.93 6.77 m 2H 5.16 s 2H 2.25 dq J 32.3 7.5 Hz 2H 0.95 t J 7.5 Hz 1H 0.63 t J 7.5 Hz 3H . M H m z 292

To a stirred solution of 4 6 amino 4 ethyl 5 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 pyridyl phenol 2 50 mg 0.163 mmol in DCE 3.0 mL was added cyclopropanecarbaldehyde 22.9 mg 0.36 mmol . After the reaction mixture was stirred at 40 C. for 16 h NaBH OAc 69.2 mg 0.33 mmol was added. After the reaction mixture was stirred at 40 C. for 0.5 h it was concentrated and purified by prep HPLC to give 40 7.1 mg yield 12 . LCMS 5 95 AB 1.5 min 0.747 min MS 360.9 M 1 . H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 7.54 s 1H 7.20 7.13 m 4H 7.01 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 6.88 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 3.24 d J 6.8 Hz 2H 2.46 2.40 m 2H 1.14 1.11 m 1H 0.74 0.70 t J 7.6 Hz 3H 0.57 0.52 m 2H 0.27 0.25 m 2H 

Following the procedures of Example 16 41 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.80 s 1H 9.37 d J 13.9 Hz 1H 7.70 s 1H 7.46 t J 7.9 Hz 2H 7.25 ddd J 8.2 2.4 1.0 Hz 2H 7.18 6.95 m 2H 6.79 dd J 8.5 6.5 Hz 2H 5.73 d J 14.3 Hz 1H 3.00 d J 4.6 Hz 3H 2.22 q J 7.5 Hz 2H 0.73 0.59 m 3H . M H m z 384

A mixture of 3 bromoaniline 42a 5.0 g 28.0 mmol and bis chloromethyl amine hydrochloride 4.82 g 28.01 mmol in n BuOH 60 mL was heated at 118 C. for 48 h. After it was cooled to 25 C. the reaction mixture containing 1 3 bromophenyl piperazine 42b was used in next step directly. LCMS 5 95 AB 1.5 min 0.608 min MS 240.7 M 1 

To the solution of 42b 6.25 g 25.9 mmol in THF HO 1 1 40 mL was added NaCOuntil basic. BocO 6.79 g 31.1 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was stirred at 25 C. for 10 h. Water 15 mL was added to the reaction mixture and it was extracted with EtOAc 3 20 mL dried over NaSO and purified by column PE EtOAc 30 1 to give tert butyl 4 3 bromophenyl piperazine 1 carboxylate 42c 1.94 g yield 21.9 

To a solution of 42c 0.94 g 2.75 mmol in dioxane 30 mL was added 4 4 4 4 5 5 5 5 octamethyl 2 2 bi 1 3 2 dioxaborolane 1.40 g 5.51 mmol KOAc 811 mg 8.26 mmol Pd dppf Cl 0.27 mmol and dioxane 15 mL . The reaction system was purged and stirred at 110 C. for 5 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to 25 C. and poured into water 15 mL extracted with EtOAc 20 mL 3 . The organic layer was dried over NaSO concentrated and by purified by column PE EtOAc 15 1 10 1 to give tert butyl 4 3 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl piperazine 1 carboxylate 42d 0.89 g yield 83.2 . LCMS 5 95 AB 1.5 min 1.015 min MS 388.8 M 1 

To a solution of 42d 400 mg 1.03 mmol in dioxane HO 5 mL was added tert butyl 3 5 dibromo 4 ethylpyridin 2 yl carbamate 42e 391 mg 1.0 mmol KCO 427 mg 3.09 mmol and Pd dppf Cl 45 mg . The reaction mixture was purged with Nand heated with microwave irradiation at 120 C. for 50 min. The reaction mixture was cooled to 25 C. then poured to water 15 mL . It was extracted with EtOAc 3 20 mL and the organic layer was dried over NaSO concentrated it and purified by column PE EtOAc 20 1 5 1 to give tert butyl 4 3 5 bromo 6 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 4 ethylpyridin 3 yl phenyl piperazine 1 carboxylate 42f 250 mg yield 43.2 

To the mixture of 42f 250 mg 0.445 mmol in EtOAc 5 mL was added HCl EtOAc 10 mL and stirred at 25 C. for 3 h. It was concentrated to give 3 bromo 4 ethyl 5 3 piperazin 1 yl phenyl pyridin 2 amine 42g which was used in the next step directly. LCMS 5 95 AB 1.5 min 0.673 min MS 362.7 M 1 

To the solution of 42g 140 mg 0.387 mol in dioxane HO 5 1 2.5 mL added 4 hydroxyphenyl boronic acid 53 mg 0.387 mmol NaCO 205 mg 1.94 mmol and Pd dppf Cl 35 mg . The mixture was purged with nitrogen and heated under microwave irradiation at 120 C. for 50 min. The mixture was cooled to 25 C. and added to water 20 mL . It was extracted with EtOAc 30 mL 3 dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by pre HPLC to give 42 48 mg yield 33.1 as white solid. LCMS 5 95 AB 1.5 min 0.669 min MS 374.9 M 1 . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 7.67 s 1H 7.39 7.36 m 2H 7.12 7.10 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 6.97 6.96 m 1H 6.96 6.94 m 3H 6.91 6.90 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 3.45 3.36 m 4H 3.31 s 4H 2.42 2.36 m 2H 0.73 0.70 t J 7.2 Hz 3H 

A solution of 4 ethylpyridin 2 amine 7a 600 mg 4.92 mmol formaldehyde HCHO 590 mg 19.67 mmol sodium methoxide NaOMe 1.3 g 24.6 mmol in methanol MeOH 30 ml was heated to reflux for 2 h. The mixture was cooled to 0 C. with an ice bath and NaBH 747 mg 19.7 mmol was added. The mixture heated at reflux for 2 h and poured to crushed ice. The mixture was extracted with EtOAc 20 mL 3 and washed with water. The combined extracts was washed with brine dried over NaSO and concentrated in vacuum to give 4 ethyl N methylpyridin 2 amine 43a as a solid which was used to next step directly 420 mg yield 63 

To a solution of 43a 320 mg 2.36 mmol in MeCN 20 mL was added NBS 1.6 g 9.4 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at r.t. for 4 h under N. The mixture was extracted with EtOAc 30 mL 3 . The combined extracts was washed with brine 30 mL dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by column to give 3 5 dibromo 4 ethyl N methylpyridin 2 amine 43b EtOAc PE 1 40 420 mg 44 

To a solution of 43b 100 mg 0.34 mmol 4 hydroxyphenyl boronic acid 57 mg 0.41 mmol Pd dppf Cl 5 mg 0.0068 mmol and KCO 95 mg 0.68 mmol in dioxane HO 10 ml 1 mL . The mixture was stirred at 90 C. for 5 h under N. The mixture was extracted with EtOAc 15 3 washed with brine 20 mL dry over NaSO concentrated and purified by pre HPLC to give 43 52.1 mg 47 . LCMS 5 95 AB 1.5 min 0.724 min MS 320.9 M 1 . H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 7.56 s 1H 7.19 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.13 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.01 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 6.90 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 2.97 s 3H 2.46 2.40 m 2H 0.72 t J 7.6 Hz 3H 

Following the procedures of Example 89 44 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.53 s 1H 7.69 s 1H 7.43 d J 8.2 Hz 1H 7.30 d J 2.5 Hz 1H 7.16 dd J 8.1 2.2 Hz 1H 7.09 7.00 m 2H 6.93 6.85 m 2H 5.01 s 2H 2.36 s 3H 2.24 q J 7.4 Hz 2H 0.62 t J 7.4 Hz 3H . M H m z 340

Following the procedures of Example 89 45 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.53 s 1H 7.97 s 1H 7.91 d J 8.3 Hz 2H 7.72 s 1H 7.39 d J 8.3 Hz 2H 7.33 s 1H 7.10 7.02 m 2H 6.93 6.85 m 2H 5.04 s 2H 2.27 q J 7.4 Hz 2H 0.61 t J 7.4 Hz 3H . M H m z 334

Following the procedures of Example 89 46 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.53 s 1H 7.99 s 1H 7.84 dtd J 7.1 3.6 1.9 Hz 2H 7.73 s 1H 7.54 7.45 m 2H 7.35 s 1H 7.13 6.94 m 2H 6.93 6.74 m 2H 5.02 s 2H 2.23 dq J 20.9 7.4 Hz 2H 0.61 t J 7.5 Hz 3H . M H m z 334

Following the procedures of Example 89 47 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.51 s 1H 7.70 s 1H 7.32 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.25 7.13 m 2H 7.14 7.01 m 3H 6.93 6.84 m 2H 4.94 s 2H 2.92 hept J 6.9 Hz 1H 2.24 q J 7.4 Hz 2H 1.22 d J 6.9 Hz 6H 0.63 t J 7.4 Hz 3H . M H m z 333

Following the procedures of Example 89 48 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.53 s 1H 7.71 s 1H 7.57 7.42 m 1H 7.46 7.36 m 1H 7.21 7.12 m 1H 7.12 7.00 m 2H 6.93 6.85 m 2H 5.06 s 2H 2.25 q J 7.4 Hz 2H 0.62 t J 7.4 Hz 3H . M H m z 327

Following the procedures of Example 89 50 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.53 s 1H 7.69 s 1H 7.47 7.22 m 4H 7.10 7.02 m 2H 6.93 6.85 m 2H 5.06 s 2H 2.14 q J 7.4 Hz 2H 0.59 t J 7.5 Hz 3H . M H m z 333

Following the procedures of Example 89 51 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.54 s 1H 7.87 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 7.73 s 1H 7.58 7.51 m 2H 7.11 7.02 m 2H 6.93 6.85 m 2H 5.14 s 2H 2.26 q J 7.5 Hz 2H 0.61 t J 7.5 Hz 3H . M H m z 316

Following the procedures of Example 89 52 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.52 s 1H 7.73 7.52 m 1H 7.37 7.28 m 1H 7.09 7.02 m 2H 6.95 6.76 m 5H 4.96 s 2H 3.77 s 3H 2.27 q J 7.5 Hz 2H 0.64 t J 7.4 Hz 3H . M H m z 321

Following the procedures of Example 89 53 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.51 s 1H 7.67 s 1H 7.25 7.18 m 2H 7.09 7.01 m 2H 7.01 6.93 m 2H 6.92 6.84 m 2H 4.91 s 2H 3.78 s 3H 2.24 q J 7.4 Hz 2H 0.62 t J 7.5 Hz 3H . M H m z 321

Following the procedures of Example 89 55 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.51 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 7.68 s 1H 7.48 7.32 m 2H 7.29 7.18 m 2H 7.13 6.76 m 3H 5.17 t J 5.7 Hz 2H 4.95 s 1H 4.53 d J 5.7 Hz 2H 2.23 dq J 20.9 7.5 Hz 2H 0.61 t J 7.4 Hz 3H . M H m z 321

A solution of 3 5 dibromo 4 ethylpyridin 2 amine 7b 1.0 g 3.57 mmol BocO 1.6 g 7.14 mmol DMAP 1.1 g 8.93 mmol TEA 1 g 10.71 mmol in DCM 30 mL was stirred at r.t. for 5 h. The mixture was diluted with water and extracted in EtOAc 30 mL 3 . The combined extracts were washed with brine dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by column ETOAc PE 1 50 to give 3 5 dibromo 4 ethylpyridin 2 bis tert butyloxycarbonyl amine 13a as solid 1.5 g yield 63 . H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 8.50 s 1H 3.10 3.04 m 2H 18 s 18H 1.19 t 3H .

A solution of 13a 500 mg 1.04 mmol 6 methoxypyridin 3 yl boronic acid 58a 185 mg 1.25 mmol Pd dppf Cl 15 mg 0.02 mmol and KCO 290 mg 2.08 mmol in dioxane water 40 mL 8 mL was stirred at 90 C. for 5 h under N. The mixture was cooled to r.t. extracted with EtOAc 30 mL 3 washed with brine 20 mL dried over NaSO and concentrated in vacuum to give crude product which was purified by column EtOAc PE 1 10 to give 5 bromo 4 ethyl 6 methoxy 3 3 bipyridin 6 bis tert butoxycarbonyl amine 58b as solid 450 mg yield 85 .

To a solution of 58b 400 mg 0.79 mmol in DCM 20 mL was added BBr 0.6 mL dropwise at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at 15 C. 18 C. for 2 h. The mixture containing 5 bromo 4 ethyl 6 methoxy 3 3 bipyridin 6 amine 58c was concentrated and used in the next to step 400 mg 100 .

A solution of 58c 250 mg 0.81 mmol 4 hydroxyphenyl boronic acid 135 mg 0.98 mmol Pd dppf Cl 12 mg 0.02 mmol and KCO 225 mg 1.62 mmol in dioxane water 20 mL 4 mL was stirred at 90 C. for 5 h under N. The mixture was cooled to r.t. and extracted with EtOAc 30 mL 3 washed with brine 20 mL dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by column EtOAc PE 1 1 to give 4 6 amino 4 ethyl 6 methoxy 3 3 bipyridin 5 yl phenol 58d 100 mg 42 .

A solution of 58d 100 mg 0.31 mmol in HBr HOAc 5 mL was stirred at 70 C. for 8 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and purified by pre HPLC to give 58 39.2 mg yield 41 . H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 8.10 8.02 m 2H 7.83 s 1H 7.17 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.07 7.00 m 3H 2.47 2.42 m 2H 0.80 t 3H 

To the solution of 4 6 bis tert butoxycarbonyl amino 5 bromo 4 ethylpyridin 3 yl phenol 59a 1.45 g 2.94 mmol in EtOAc 15 mL was added HCl EtOAc 15 mL and the mixture was stirred at 25 C. for 3 h. Solvent was removed and water 10 mL was added. The pH was adjusted to 9 with NaHCO and extracted with EtOAc 15 mL 3 dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to give 4 6 amino 5 bromo 4 ethylpyridin 3 yl phenol 11a 1.02 g 

A microwave reaction tube containing 11a 80.0 mg 0.272 mmol 3 methyl 1H indazol 5 yl boronic acid 59b 48.0 mg 0.27 mmol KCO 188 mg 1.36 mmol dioxane HO 5 1 2.5 mL and Pd dppf Cl 25.00 mg was purged with nitrogen and heated under microwave irradiation at 120 C. for 50 min. It was cooled to 25 C. added water 5 mL was added. It was extracted with EtOAc 15 mL 3 dried over NaSO. It was concentrated and purified by pre HPLC to 59 42.5 mg yield 45 as white solid. LCMS 5 95 AB 1.5 min 0.713 min MS 344.9 M 1 . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.30 br 1H 7.69 s 2H 7.66 7.64 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.30 7.27 m 1H 7.18 7.16 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 6.87 6.86 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 2.59 s 3H 2.46 2.37 m 2H 0.73 0.69 t J 7.6 Hz 3H 

Following the procedures of Example 89 60 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.50 s 1H 7.72 s 1H 7.45 d J 8.3 Hz 2H 7.42 7.31 m 2H 7.12 7.02 m 2H 6.93 6.85 m 2H 5.03 s 2H 3.62 s 4H 2.27 q J 7.5 Hz 2H 0.63 t J 7.4 Hz 3H . M H m z 404

Following the procedures of Example 89 61 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.50 s 1H 7.69 s 1H 7.52 7.37 m 4H 7.41 7.27 m 4H 7.10 6.93 m 3H 6.95 6.84 m 4H 5.14 s 2H 4.96 s 2H 2.24 q J 7.4 Hz 2H 0.59 t J 7.4 Hz 3H . M H m z 397

Following the procedures of Example 89 62 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.56 s 1H 8.75 dd J 2.1 1.1 Hz 1H 8.14 8.02 m 2H 7.79 s 1H 7.13 7.01 m 2H 6.94 6.86 m 2H 5.26 s 2H 2.26 q J 7.5 Hz 2H 0.61 t J 7.4 Hz 3H . M H m z 317

Following the procedures of Example 89 63 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.56 s 1H 8.84 d J 2.2 Hz 1H 8.35 t J 2.1 Hz 1H 7.78 s 1H 7.11 6.95 m 2H 6.94 6.83 m 2H 5.22 s 2H 2.22 dq J 15.3 7.5 Hz 2H 0.61 t J 7.5 Hz 3H . M H m z 317

Following the procedures of Example 89 67 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.55 s 1H 7.99 7.91 m 1H 7.76 s 1H 7.55 dd J 10.6 1.5 Hz 1H 7.40 dd J 8.0 1.5 Hz 1H 7.10 7.00 m 2H 6.93 6.85 m 2H 5.21 s 2H 3.27 s 2H 2.29 q J 7.7 Hz 2H 0.62 t J 7.5 Hz 3H . M H m z 334

Following the procedures of Example 89 68 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.53 s 1H 8.10 d J 1.8 Hz 1H 7.73 7.64 m 2H 7.08 7.01 m 2H 6.95 6.76 m 2H 5.02 s 2H 3.88 s 3H 2.22 q J 7.5 Hz 2H 0.63 t J 7.5 Hz 3H . M H m z 322

Following the procedures of Example 89 69 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.53 s 1H 8.23 d J 7.8 Hz 1H 7.86 7.77 m 2H 7.74 s 1H 7.53 7.42 m 2H 7.09 7.02 m 2H 6.93 6.86 m 2H 5.02 s 2H 4.18 4.04 m 1H 2.25 q J 7.4 Hz 2H 1.17 d J 6.6 Hz 6H 0.62 t J 7.5 Hz 3H . M H m z 376

Following the procedures of Example 89 70 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.52 s 1H 7.68 s 1H 7.56 s 2H 7.47 7.35 m 3H 7.09 7.02 m 2H 6.92 6.85 m 2H 4.97 s 2H 4.20 d J 5.8 Hz 2H 2.88 d J 3.1 Hz 3H 2.25 q J 7.4 Hz 2H 0.61 t J 7.5 Hz 3H . M H m z 398

Following the procedures of Example 89 71 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.51 s 1H 7.82 7.74 m 2H 7.08 6.96 m 2H 6.92 6.84 m 2H 4.88 s 2H 3.93 d J 7.2 Hz 2H 2.13 hept J 6.9 Hz 1H 0.84 d J 6.7 Hz 6H 0.74 t J 7.4 Hz 3H . M H m z 337

Following the procedure of Example 16 72 was prepared. 1H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d6 11.11 s 1H 9.39 s 1H 7.68 s 1H 7.46 d J 2.2 Hz 1H 7.35 dd J 8.5 2.2 Hz 1H 7.15 7.04 m 2H 6.84 6.75 m 2H 5.11 s 2H 2.21 q J 7.4 Hz 2H 0.62 t J 7.4 Hz 3H . M H m z 332

Following the procedures of Example 89 73 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.54 s 1H 8.45 d J 5.0 Hz 1H 7.72 s 1H 7.25 7.19 m 1H 7.15 dd J 5.0 1.8 Hz 1H 7.12 7.01 m 2H 6.93 6.83 m 2H 5.12 s 2H 3.27 s 3H 2.28 q J 7.5 Hz 2H 0.63 t J 7.5 Hz 3H . M H m z 306

Following the procedures of Example 89 74 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.53 s 1H 7.72 s 1H 7.68 7.52 m 2H 7.50 dd J 4.6 3.1 Hz 2H 7.14 7.02 m 3H 6.95 6.85 m 2H 5.04 s 2H 2.24 q J 7.4 Hz 2H 0.61 t J 7.4 Hz 3H . M H m z 341

Following the procedures of Example 89 75 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 10.50 s 1H 9.51 d J 15.1 Hz 1H 8.23 dd J 2.5 0.9 Hz 1H 8.10 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 7.78 7.68 m 1H 7.13 7.01 m 2H 6.93 6.74 m 2H 5.05 s 2H 2.22 dq J 15.1 7.4 Hz 2H 2.11 s 3H 0.63 t J 7.5 Hz 3H . M H m z 349

Following the procedures of Example 89 76 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.55 s 1H 7.74 s 1H 7.21 tt J 9.4 2.4 Hz 1H 7.13 7.00 m 4H 6.93 6.85 m 2H 5.11 s 2H 2.28 q J 7.5 Hz 2H 0.63 t J 7.5 Hz 3H . M H m z 327

Following the procedures of Example 89 77 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.53 s 1H 7.72 s 1H 7.51 7.33 m 3H 7.29 dt J 7.1 1.6 Hz 1H 7.13 7.01 m 2H 6.93 6.85 m 2H 5.09 s 2H 2.25 q J 7.5 Hz 2H 0.62 t J 7.5 Hz 3H . M H m z 326

Following the procedures of Example 89 78 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.56 s 1H 7.62 s 1H 7.60 7.51 m 1H 7.45 7.33 m 3H 7.10 7.00 m 2H 6.93 6.85 m 2H 5.05 s 2H 2.10 1.95 m 2H 0.58 t J 7.5 Hz 3H . M H m z 326

Following the procedures of Example 89 79 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.52 s 1H 8.13 s 1H 7.68 s 1H 7.22 dd J 7.7 1.9 Hz 1H 7.21 7.11 m 2H 7.15 7.00 m 2H 6.93 6.84 m 2H 4.97 s 2H 2.31 2.18 m 5H 0.62 t J 7.5 Hz 3H . M H m z 323

Following the procedures of Example 89 80 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.53 s 1H 8.15 s 1H 7.70 s 1H 7.51 7.42 m 2H 7.13 7.01 m 2H 6.93 6.84 m 2H 5.02 s 2H 2.24 q J 7.4 Hz 2H 0.61 t J 7.5 Hz 3H . M H m z 326

Following the procedures of Example 89 82 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.51 s 1H 7.70 s 1H 7.37 t J 7.5 Hz 1H 7.30 7.13 m 3H 7.09 7.02 m 2H 6.88 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 4.96 s 2H 3.60 3.48 m 6H 2.36 s 3H 2.36 d J 9.5 Hz 1H 2.24 q J 7.4 Hz 2H 0.61 t J 7.5 Hz 3H . M H m z 390

Following the procedures of Example 89 85 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.52 s 1H 8.10 d J 16.8 Hz 1H 7.81 7.73 m 2H 7.55 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 7.43 7.23 m 3H 7.14 7.02 m 2H 6.93 6.86 m 2H 5.01 d J 14.3 Hz 2H 4.15 d J 15.6 Hz 3H 2.32 2.17 m 2H 0.54 t J 7.5 Hz 3H . M H m z 345

A solution of 5 bromo 2 methyl 1H benzo d imidazole 86a 200 mg 0.95 mmol BocO 415 mg 1.90 mmol DMAP 232 mg 1.90 mmol in DCM 20 mL was stirred at r.t. for 5 h. The mixture was diluted with water and extracted in DCM 20 mL 2 . The combined extracts were washed with brine dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by column EtOAc PE 1 20 to give tert butyl 5 bromo 2 methyl 1H benzo d imidazole 1 carboxylate 86b as solid 300 mg yield 97 .

A mixture of 86b 300 mg 0.97 mmol 4 4 4 4 5 5 5 5 octamethyl 2 2 bi 1 3 2 dioxaborolane 465 mg 1.94 mmol Pd dppf Cl 68 mg 0.1 mmol and KOAc 190 mg 1.94 mmol in dioxane 20 mL was purged and stirred at 90 C. for 5 h under N. The mixture was cooled to r.t. extracted with EtOAc 20 mL 2 washed with brine 20 mL dry over NaSO concentrated and purified by column EtOAc PE 1 8 to give tert butyl 2 methyl 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H benzo d imidazole 1 carboxylate 86c as solid 200 mg yield 62 .

A solution of 3 5 dibromo 4 ethylpyridin 2 amine 7b 320 mg 1.14 mmol Boc O 500 mg 2.29 mmol DMAP 286 mg 2.86 mmol TEA 420 mg 3.43 mmol in DCM 30 mL was stirred at r.t. for 5 h. The mixture was diluted with water and extracted in EtOAc 20 mL 3 . The combined extracts were washed with brine dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by column EtOAc PE 1 40 to give 3 5 dibromo 4 ethylpyridin 2 bis tert butyloxycarbonyl amine 13a as a solid 580 mg yield 100 .

A mixture of 13a 140 mg 0.29 mmol 86c 125 mg 0.35 mmol Pd dppf Cl 5 mg 0.006 mmol and KCO 85 mg 0.58 mmol in dioxane water 15 mL 3 mL was purged and stirred at 90 C. for 5 h under N. The mixture was cooled to r.t. and extracted with EtOAc 15 mL 3 washed with brine 15 mL dried over NaSO concentrated to give crude 3 bromo 4 ethyl 5 2 methyl 1H tert butoxycarbonyl benzo d imidazol 5 yl pyridin 2 bis tert butoxycarbonyl amine 86d 120 mg yield 65 which was used to next step.

To a stirred solution of 86d 120 mg 0.19 mmol in DCM 20 mL was added HCl EtOAc 3 mL at 0 C. After the reaction mixture was stirred at r.t. for 3 h it was concentrated and purified by column EtOAc PE 1 10 to give 3 bromo 4 ethyl 5 2 methyl 1H benzo d imidazol 5 yl pyridin 2 amine 86e as solid 60 mg yield 85 .

A mixture of 86e 60 mg 0.18 mmol 4 hydroxyphenyl boronic acid 30 mg 0.22 mmol Pd dppf Cl 2 mg 0.004 mmol and KCO 50 mg 0.26 mmol in dioxane water 10 mL 2 mL was purged and stirred at 90 C. for 5 h under N. The mixture was cooled to r.t. and extracted with EtOAc 10 mL 3 . It was washed with brine 10 mL dried over NaSO concentrated and purified by pre HPLC to give 86 14.1 mg yield 23 . LCMS 5 95 AB 1.5 min 0.628 min MS 344.9 M 1 . H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 7.87 7.79 m 3H 7.61 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 7.19 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.01 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 2.87 s 3H 2.49 2.43 m 2H 0.700 t J 7.6 Hz 3H 

To a solution of 4 6 bis tert butoxycarbonyl amino 5 bromo 4 ethylpyridin 3 yl phenol 59a 1.45 g 2.94 mmol in EtOAc 15 mL was added HCl EtOAc 15 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at 25 C. for 3 h. It was concentrated and water 10 mL . pH was adjusted to 9 with NaHCO. It was extracted with EtOAc 3 20 mL dried over NaSO and concentrated to give crude 4 6 amino 5 bromo 4 ethylpyridin 3 yl phenol 11a.

A microwave tube containing 11a 80 mg 0.273 mmol tert butyl 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole 1 carboxylate 87a 94 mg 0.273 mmol KCO 189 mg 1.36 mmol dioxane HO 5 1 2.3 mL and Pd dppf Cl 25.00 mg was purged with Nand heated under the microwave irradiation at 120 C. for 45 min. The mixture was cooled to 25 C. and water 15 mL was added. It was extracted it with EtOAc 20 mL 3 dried over NaSO and concentrated to give tert butyl 5 2 amino 4 ethyl 5 4 hydroxyphenyl pyridin 3 yl 1H indazole 1 carboxylate 87b 155 mg as brown solid. LCMS 5 95 AB 1.5 min 0.695 min MS 330.9 M 100 0.786 min MS 431.0 M 1 .

To the mixture of 87b 100 mg 0.239 mmol in EtOAc 5 mL was added HCl EtOAc 7 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at 25 C. for 2 h. Solvent was removed and it was purified by prep HPLC to give 87 20 mg yield 26.1 as white solid. LCMS 5 95 AB 1.5 min 0.702 min MS 330.9 M 1 . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.28 s 1H 8.13 s 1H 7.76 7.72 m 2H 7.69 s 1H 7.32 7.29 d J 12.0 Hz 1H 7.18 7.16 m 2H 6.87 6.85 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 2.46 2.35 m 2H 0.73 0.69 t J 7.6 Hz 3H .

Into a 250 mL 3 necked round bottom flask purged and maintained with an inert atmosphere of nitrogen was placed 4 2 amino 5 bromo 4 ethylpyridin 3 yl phenol 89d 1.0 g 3.41 mmol 1.00 equiv 2H indazol 6 yl boronic acid 88a 663 mg 4.09 mmol 1.20 equiv KCO 3.3 g 23.70 mmol 6.95 equiv water 25 mL 1 4 dioxane 25 mL and Pd dppf Cl 0.2 g 0.1 eq . The resulting solution was stirred at 80 C. for 8 h and then extracted with 3 30 mL of ethyl acetate. The organic layers were combined and concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified on a silica gel column eluting with DCM CHOH 20 1 10 1 . The crude product was re crystallized from EtOH HO in the ratio of 1 1 to afford 251 mg 22 of 88 as a white solid. LC MS ES m z 331 M H . H NMR 300 MHz DMSO ppm 13.05 s 1H 9.56 s 1H 8.09 s 1H 7.76 7.79 m 2H 7.41 s 1H 7.04 7.09 m 3H 6.88 6.91 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 5.12 s 2H 2.27 2.30 q 2H 0.59 0.64 t 3H 

Into a 500 mL 3 necked round bottom flask purged and maintained with an inert atmosphere of nitrogen was placed 4 ethylpyridin 2 amine 7a 10 g 81.85 mmol 1.00 equiv tetrahydrofuran 200 mL and NBS 29 g 162.94 mmol 2.00 equiv at 0 C. The resulting solution was stirred at room temperature for 15 min and then concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified on a silica gel column eluting with DCM MeOH 100 1 20 1 to afford 18 g 79 of 3 5 dibromo 4 ethylpyridin 2 amine 7b as a white solid.

Into a 500 mL 3 necked round bottom flask purged and maintained with an inert atmosphere of nitrogen was placed 7b 18 g 64.29 mmol 1.00 equiv in tetrahydrofuran 360 mL . To this was added a solution of n BuLi in hexane 58 mL 2.00 equiv 2.2 mol L at 78 C. The resulting solution was stirred at 78 C. for 1 h quenched by the addition of 450 mL of NHCl and then extracted with 2 500 mL of ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with 2 500 mL of brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under vacuum. The crude product was purified by Flash Prep HPLC to afford 12 g 93 of 3 bromo 4 ethylpyridin 2 amine 89a as a white solid.

Into a 500 mL 3 necked round bottom flask purged and maintained with an inert atmosphere of nitrogen was placed a solution of 89a 12 g 59.68 mmol 1.00 equiv in CHCN 100 mL 4 methoxyphenyl boronic acid 11 g 72.39 mmol 1.20 equiv NaCO 120 mL sat. and Pd dppf Cl 1.2 g 1.64 mmol 0.03 equiv . The resulting solution was stirred at 110 C. for 1 h diluted with of 500 mL of EA and then extracted with of 2 500 mL of ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with 3 200 mL of brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified on a silica gel column eluting with ethyl acetate petroleum ether 1 100 1 10 to afford 10 g 73 of 4 ethyl 3 4 methoxyphenyl pyridin 2 amine 89b as a white solid.

Into a 250 mL 3 necked round bottom flask purged and maintained with an inert atmosphere of nitrogen was placed 89b 10 g 43.80 mmol 1.00 equiv tetrahydrofuran 100 mL followed by NBS 7.8 g 43.83 mmol 1.00 equiv at 0 C. The resulting solution was stirred at room temperature for 15 min diluted with 500 mL of EtOAc and 500 mL of HO. The resulting solution was extracted with 2 500 mL of ethyl acetate. The organic layers were combined washed with 2 500 mL of brine and concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified on a silica gel column eluting with ethyl acetate petroleum ether 1 20 1 10 to afford 8 g 59 of 5 bromo 4 ethyl 3 4 methoxyphenyl pyridin 2 amine 89c as a white solid.

Into a 250 mL 3 necked round bottom flask purged and maintained with an inert atmosphere of nitrogen was placed 89c 8 g 26.04 mmol 1.00 equiv dichloromethane 100 mL followed by tribromoborane 19.6 g 78.24 mmol 3.00 equiv at 0 C. The resulting solution was stirred at room temperature for 1 h and then quenched by the addition of 100 mL of NaHCO 1M at 0 C. The solids were collected by filtration and then washed with 1 100 mL of HO and 1 300 mL of EA PE 1 1 to afford 6.3 g 83 of 4 2 amino 5 bromo 4 ethylpyridin 3 yl phenol 89d as a white solid.

Into a 250 mL 3 necked round bottom flask purged and maintained with an inert atmosphere of nitrogen was placed 89d 1.0 g 3.41 mmol 1.00 equiv 2 methyl 6 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 2H indazole 89e 880 mg 3.41 mmol 1.00 equiv potassium carbonate 3.3 g 23.88 mmol 7.00 equiv water 30 mL 1 4 dioxane 25 mL and Pd dppf Cl 200 mg 0.3 mmol 0.1 equiv . The resulting solution was stirred at 80 C. for 16 h diluted with 500 mL of HO and 500 mL of ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with 2 250 mL of brine and concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified on a silica gel column eluting with DCM CHOH 20 1 10 1 . The crude product was re crystallized from MeOH HO in the ratio of 1 1 to afford 327 mg 28 of 89 as a white solid. LC MS ES m z 345 M H . H NMR 300 MHz DMSO ppm 9.54 s 1H 8.34 s 1H 7.76 s 1H 7.68 7.71 d J 9.0 Hz 1H 7.44 7.45 d J 0.9 Hz 1H 7.06 7.09 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 6.95 6.99 m 1H 6.87 6.90 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 4.99 s 2H 4.17 s 3H 2.25 2.32 m 2H 0.59 0.64 m 3H .

Following the procedures of Example 89 90 was prepared. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.50 s 1H 7.65 s 1H 7.09 6.98 m 3H 6.92 6.83 m 2H 6.56 6.46 m 2H 6.41 dt J 7.4 1.3 Hz 1H 5.06 s 2H 4.87 d J 6.4 Hz 2H 2.27 q J 7.4 Hz 2H 0.65 t J 7.4 Hz 3H . M H m z 306

Into a 100 mL 3 necked round bottom flask purged and maintained with an inert atmosphere of nitrogen was placed 4 2 amino 5 bromo 4 ethylpyridin 3 yl phenol 89d 800 mg 2.73 mmol 1.00 equiv 6 methylcarbamoyl pyridin 3 yl boronic acid 92a 540 mg 3.00 mmol 1.10 equiv potassium carbonate 2.9 g 20.83 mmol 7.00 equiv 1 4 dioxane 21 mL water 21 mL and Pd dppf Cl 160 mg . The resulting solution was stirred at 80 C. for 16 h cooled and extracted with 3 20 mL of ethyl acetate. The organic layers were combined and concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified on a silica gel column eluting with DCM CHOH 20 1 10 1 . The crude product was re crystallized from MeOH HO in the ratio of 1 1 to afford 270 mg 28 of 92 as an off white solid. LC MS ES m z 349 M H . H NMR 300 MHz DMSO ppm 9.56 s 1H 8.78 8.81 m 1H 8.58 8.59 d J 3.0 Hz 1H 8.04 8.07 m 1H 7.94 7.98 m 1H 7.78 s 1H 7.04 7.07 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 6.87 6.90 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 5.20 s 2H 2.83 2.84 d J 3.0 Hz 3H 2.22 2.29 m 2H 0.58 0.63 m 3H 

A solution of 4 6 amino 5 bromo 4 ethylpyridin 3 yl phenol 11a 60 mg 0.20 mmol 1H indazol 6 yl boronic acid 93a 40 mg 0.24 mmol Pd dppf Cl 4 mg 0.004 mmol and KCO 57 mg 0.40 mmol in dioxane water 10 mL 2 mL was purged with Nand stirred at 90 C. for 5 h under N. The mixture was cooled to r.t. and extracted with EtOAc 10 mL 3 washed brine 10 mL dry over NaSO concentrated and purified by pre HPLC to give 93 5.8 mg yield 10 . H NMR 400 MHz Methanol d4 8.24 s 1H 8.03 m 1H 7.70 s 1H 7.13 d J 6.0 Hz 1H 7.23 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.91 6.87 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 6.91 6.87 m 2H 2.47 t 2H 0.77 0.70 m 3H .

Following the procedures of Example 89 95 was prepared H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 13.04 s 1H 9.52 s 1H 8.38 s 1H 7.89 7.78 m 2H 7.71 s 1H 7.35 dd J 8.4 2.1 Hz 1H 7.09 6.99 m 2H 6.95 6.85 m 3H 4.96 s 2H 2.24 q J 7.4 Hz 2H 0.62 t J 7.4 Hz 3H . M H m z 350

For the cloning of the ubiquitin intein His6 expression vector the coding region for amino acids 1 75 of human ubiquitin were amplified by PCR with suitable primers for subsequent cloning into in the expression vector pTYB2. Ubiquitin intein His6 was expressed and purified as described Hassiepen U. et al 2007 Anal. Biochem. 371 138 143 with the following exceptions. Ubiquitinintein was batch purified on nickel chelating affinity media Amersham and Ubiquitin MES was released by addition of 100 mM Na mercaptoethanesulfonate MES for 5 h at 22 C. Ubiquitin MES was eluted with 4 column volumes of 20 mM 2 N morpholino ethanesulfonic acid pH 6.5 100 mM NaCl. Eluted material was concentrated by ultrafiltration Vivaspin 6 5 kDa cutoff to less than 5 ml and supplemented with 10 eq. N hydroxysuccinimide Fluka 56480 10 eq. sym collidine Fluka 27690 and 15 eq. bisglycyl rhodamine110 for 24 h at 37 C. For purification the reaction mixture was desalted into 20 mM 2 N morpholino ethanesulfonic acid pH 6.5 on a HiPrep Sephadex G 25 26 10 column GE healthcare then applied to a Source 15 S HR 10 10 column GE healthcare which was developed with a gradient of 0 1 NaCl. Final Ubiquitin Rhodamine110 Gly fractions were pooled dialysed into 50 mM Tris pH 7.5 then concentrated to 1 mg per ml. Ub Rho110 Gly is commercially available from Boston Biochem.

In the fluorescent assay 0.5 mM Ubiquitin Rhodamine110 Gly in 40 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 7.6 5 mM DTT and 0.05 mg ml 1 BSA were incubated with 0.05 5 ng ml of each DUB for 60 min at 30 C. Samples were prepared in triplicates and analyzed in 96 well plates using a Envision 2104 multi label reader Perkin Elmer at Excitation Emission 485 535 nm Hassiepen U. et al 2007 Anal. Biochem. 371 138 143 Ritorto M. S. et al 2014 Nature Communications 5 4763 doi 10.1038 .

Biochemical USP7 assays using Ubiquitin Rho110 as a substrate The final assay conditions were as follows The Reaction Buffer consisted of 50 mM Tris pH 7.5 0.01 v v Triton X 100 2.5 mM Dithiothreitol 0.1 w v bovine gamma globulin Sigma cat G5009 25G USP7 full length native C Terminus 0.2 nM the substrate Ubiquitin Rho110 Boston Biochem cat U 555 1 uM. Reactions were carried out for 1 hour at room temperature in black 20 L volume polystyrene ProxiPlate 384 F Plus PerkinElmer cat 6008260 .

Test compounds including a control USP7 inhibitor Ub aldehyde Boston Biochem cat U 201 were serially diluted in DMSO in 384 well clear V bottom polypropylene plates Greiner cat 781280 . Compounds in DMSO were diluted 10 fold into Reaction Buffer to achieve 3 fold the final desired concentration. The substrate Ubiquitin Rho110 Boston Biochem cat U 555 was prepared at 3 M 3 fold the final concentration and 5 ul was dispensed into the reaction plate. 5 ul of the compounds diluted in Reaction Buffer at 3 fold the final concentration were transferred to the reaction plate. 5 ul of 0.6 nM USP7 diluted in Reaction Buffer at 3 fold the final concentration was transferred to the reaction plate to initiate the reaction. After 1 hour incubation at room temperature the reaction was quenched by the addition of 5 ul of 400 mM acetic acid. The enzymatic product was measured by quantifying the fluorescence signal of cleaved Rhodamine 110 using excitation at 485 nm and emission at 535 nm. When pre incubation of USP7 with compounds was required the order of addition of reagents was modified to pre mix the compounds with USP7 with a 1 hour incubation period prior to the addition of the substrate and the initiation of the reaction period. Percentage inhibition values were calculated relative to a no enzyme control and a uninhibited enzyme control. Curve fitting and IC50 calculations were carried out using Genedata Screener software.

The palm binding site palm site is a region defined by residues in the USP7 catalytic domain within 0.5 nm distance of the palm ligand. This encompasses residues V296 Q297 C300 R301 L304 D305 E308 I320 P321 F324 Y348 D349 H403 Q405 and M515.

Table 2 shows that chemical optimization of palm site fragment compounds enhances biochemical potency and retains USP7 selectivity. Measuring the inhibition of USP7 and the USP7 catalytic domain measures potency. Measuring the inhibition of USP47 and USP5 reflects selectivity. These data thus indicate that the USP7 antagonists Compounds 88 45 and 81 are selective antagonists of USP7 catalytic activity but the inactive control compounds 89 and 25 are ineffective in antagonizing the activity of any DUB evaluated.

293T cells at 80 confluency are harvested by rinsing the plate one time with 10 ml PBS followed by scraping. Cells are cleared by spinning them for 3 min at 350 g at 4 C. and the pellet is flash frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at 80 C. until lysis. Frozen cells are lysed by quickly re thawing them in Buffer A 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 250 mM Sucrose 5 mM TCEP 2 mM ATP 50 M phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride PMSF 120 mM NaCl 5 mM MgCl and the lysate is cleared by centrifugation by spinning at 18 000 g at 4 C. The protein concentration is adjusted to 5 mg ml and either 1.25 mg 2.5 mg or 5 mg of this cell lysate are incubated in duplicate with either 15 M of compound 88 a total of 2 separate USP7 antagonist treated samples or 15 M of compound 89 a total of 2 control compound treated samples in a Thermomixer Eppendorf Hauppage N.Y. 900 rpm at 25 C. for 20 min. Subsequently the 4 samples are all incubated with 6.6 g ml of either one of the following activity based DUB probes the same probe for each of the 4 samples HA tagged ubiquitin vinyl sulfone Boston Biochem Cambridge Mass. HA tagged ubiquitin propargylamine UbiQ Bio BV Amsterdam The Netherlands or HA tagged ubiquitin vinylmethyl ester UbiQ Bio BV Amsterdam The Netherlands 1200 rpm at 25 C. for 1 hr. The reaction is terminated by adding a 20 SDS solution to a final concentration of 0.4 for at least 30 min at room temperature rotating. Subsequently the reacted lysate is diluted 10 with Buffer B 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 150 mM NaCl 5 mM EDTA protease inhibitor cocktail EDTA free Roche Mannheim Germany 50 M PMSF 0.5 NP 40 . 60 100 l slurry depending on input protein amount of pre equilibrated anti HA affinity matrix Roche Mannheim Germany are added and HA tagged proteins are immunopurified with this matrix by rotating the samples over night at 4 C. The next day the beads are washed with the following buffers in this order three times ice cold Buffer B one time ice cold Buffer B NP 40 free and three times ice cold 15 mM TEAB pH 8.5. Spins between washes are performed at 2000 g and 4 C.

To elute the immunopurified material 35 l of Buffer C 1 mg ml HA peptide ThermoScientific Waltham Mass. 15 mM TEAB pH 8 0.02 Rapigest Waters Milford Mass. is added and the samples are incubated at 37 C. for 30 min at 1000 rpm shaking in an Eppendorf Thermomixer Eppendorf AG . The eluted material is cleared from the beads by adding 300 l of 15 mM TEAB and spinning at 2600 g. The cleared material is stored at 80 C. until further processing.

Eluted samples were separated on 4 12 Bis. Tris gel Life Technologies Carlsbad Calif. at 160 V for 30 min. Protein bands were visualized using Simply Blue staining solution Life Technologies Carlsbad for one hour and destained in Milli Q water for overnight. Bands were excised from top to bottom of the gel into 10 gel regions. Gel bands were further destained in 50 mM ammonium bicarbonate 50 acetonitrile ACN solution for 30 min followed by dehydration in 100 ACN for 10 min. Trypsin Promega Madison Wis. solution at 0.02 g L was added to the gel pieces and was chilled on ice for 1 h. Excess trypsin solution was removed and tryptic digestion was performed in 25 mM ammonium bicarbonate at 37 C. overnight. Peptides were extracted with 10 ACN 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid TFA and dried down completely in the SpeedVac vacuum evaporator. Peptides were reconstituted in 2 ACN 0.1 formic acid FA and analyzed by mass spectrometry.

Samples were injected via an auto sampler for separation by reverse phase chromatography on a NanoAcquity UPLC system Waters Dublin Calif. . Peptides were loaded onto a C18 column 1.7 m BEH 130 0.1 100 mm Waters Dublin Calif. with a flow rate of 1 L a minute and a 35 minute gradient of 2 Solvent B to 25 Solvent B where Solvent A is 0.1 Formic acid 2 ACN water and Solvent B is 0.1 FA 2 water ACN . Peptides were eluted directly into an LTQ Orbitrap Elite mass spectrometer ThermoFisher San Jose Calif. . Precursor ions were analyzed in the FTMS at 60 000 resolution. MS MS was performed in the ion trap with the instrument operated in data dependent mode whereby the top 15 most abundant ions were subjected for fragmentation.

MS MS data was searched using the Mascot Search Algorithm Matrix Sciences London UK . Search criteria included a full MS tolerance of 50 ppm MS MS tolerance of 0.8 Da with oxidation of Methionine as variable modification with up to 2 missed cleavages. Data was searched against the human and contaminant subset of the Uniprot database that consists of the reverse protein sequences. Data was then filtered using Linear Discriminator Analysis LDA at peptide level at 5 FDR rates and further filtered using Protein FDR tool at 5 FDR Huttlin et al. 2010 Cell 143 7 1174 1189 . All peptides subsequently were subjected to quantitation of peak area under curve AUC with Vista Bakalarski et al. 2008 J Proteome Res 7 11 4756 4765 

All cells were obtained from American Type Culture Collection ATCC 10801 University Boulevard Manassas Va. 20110 USA unless otherwise noted. HCT WT Human colorectal carcinoma wild type parental HCT USP7null Horizon HD R02 028 HCT p53null Horizon HD 104 001 . MCF 7. MDA MB157 U2Os SaOs normal mammary cells Life Technologies HMEC A10565 normal osteoblasts Lonza CC 2538 KMS 21BM KMS 28PE Japanese Collection of Research Bioresources Cell Bank RKO RKO E6 Vibo SiHA.

USP7 Abcam ab84098 MDM2 Santa Cruz sc 965 tubulin Licor 926 42211 p53 Thermo Scientific MS738 P1 p21 Millipore 05 655 E6AP Santa Cruz sc 25509 .

2 500 5 000 cells were seeded in 1 well of a 96 well plate Corning 3904 . The following day the media was changed from normal 10 to low serum 0.5 containing vehicle DMSO or compounds. 16 24 h later FBS was added to each well to bring serum levels back to normal 10 . Cells were then allowed to grow for 2 days. All treatments were done in triplicate.

The day after cells were seeded the media was changed to low serum media containing 2 M CellEvent Caspase 3 7 reagent Life Technologies C10423 and compounds. The plates were placed in an IncuCyte Essen Bioscience Inc. live cell imager and scanning was started 15 20 mins after. IncuCyte ZOOM facilitates live cell monitoring via customized imaging protocols. Images were taken every 2 h for at least 3 days using a 10 objective. Phase contrast was used to measure cell confluency density while green fluorescence was used to measure caspase activity. The images were analyzed using IncuCyte software Basic Analysis parameters and a ratio of caspase activity to cell density was determined.

Seventy two hours after compounds were added CellTitre Glo CTG reagent was added following the protocol provided by the manufacturer Promega . In the experiment to test compound dependency on USP7 3 more USP7 null cells were plated per well 7 500 vs. 2 500 for wild type WT cells given the slower proliferation of USP7 null cells. For the multiple myeloma experiment cells seeded in low serum and treated with compounds immediately. Twenty four hours later serum was added back to normal levels. CTG assay was done 24 h later i.e. 48 h after compounds were added instead of 72 hrs later for the adherent cells.

In 24 well plates 0.15 10MCF 7 cells were treated for a total of 8 h with DMSO or compounds 15 M . During that 8 h cycloheximide CHX was added for the indicated times prior to harvest.

In 24 well plates 0.10 0.15 10 adherent or 0.5 10 suspension cells were treated with 15 M or 2.5 M compounds respectively for 24 h in low serum prior to lysis for Western Blot analysis.

HCT116 colon cancer cells or SJSA 1 osteosarcoma cells were seeded at a density of 150 000 cell per well in 90 ml RPMI 1640 media 10 FBS 1 GlutaMAX Gibco in 96 well black clear bottom TC treated Greiner Cat 655090 and incubated for 2 hours at 37 C. 5 COin a tissue culture incubator. Compounds were prepared in a serial dilution in DMSO at 200 the final desired concentration in a 96 well polypropylene V bottom Greiner Cat 651261 then diluted 1 20 in RPMI tissue culture medium and 10 ml transferred to each well of the cell plate. Cell plates were incubated overnight for 20 hours 37 C. 5 CO. 20 ml of a 120 mM stock in RPMI of the proteasome inhibitor MG132 Cayman Chemical Cat 10012628 was added to each well. Cells were incubated for 1 hour at 37 C. 5 CO. Quantitation of ubiquityl MDM2 was carried out using Ub Total MDM2 whole cell lysate kit MSD Cat K15168D 2 . Cells were lysed by adding 15 ml of 5 MSD lysis buffer containing additives 10 mM NaF 10 mM beta glycerophosphate 1.5 mM NaVO protease inhibitor cocktail Sigma P8340 to each well and incubated at 4 C. for 30 minutes with shaking. 100 ml of lysate was transferred to each well of the MSD 96 well plate incubated at room temperature for 1 hour while shaking 650 RPM in the dark. The MSD plates were washed 3 times in Tris buffered saline 50 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5. 150 mM NaCl using a Biotek EL405 plate washer. 3 mls of detection antibody solution was prepared per plate 1 ml of block buffer A 1.82 ml 1 Tris wash buffer 150 ul 2 Blocker D M 30 ul 10 Blocker D R 60 ul 50 anti total MDM2 antibody . 25 ml of detection antibody solution was added per well and incubated for 1 hour at room temperature 650 RPM in the dark. Plates were washed 3 times in Tris buffered saline using a Biotek EL405 plate washer. MSD read buffer was prepared according to manufacturer s instructions and 150 ml added per well. Plates were read using a MSD Sector Reader. The final measurement was the ratio of Ubiquitinated MDM2 Total MDM2. Percentage increase in ubiquityl MDM2 was calculated relative to DMSO controls using Genedata Screener software.

Compound 88 caused an increase in ubiquityl MDM2 in SJSA 1 cells in low serum conditions EC50 2 micromolar . Expression of p53 is required for full Palm site 3 compound activity in HCT116 colon cancer cells breast cancer cells and osteosarcoma cells. USP7 expression is required for Formula I compound activity. Low MDM2 expression compromises Palm site 3 compound activity.

Formula I compounds increase p53 and p21 without stabilizing MDM2 and may combine with standard of care chemotherapeutics. Formula I compounds destabilize MDM2 and selectively inhibit endogenous USP7 DUB activity.

A primary fragment screen was performed using NMR for direct binding detection. The saturation difference spectroscopy method Mayer M. Meyer B. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 38 1784 1788 1999 was applied to identify compounds in a library that interacted with the target protein. The screening library consisted of 4862 fragments of a molecular weight averaging approximately 250 Dalton. In a first step mixtures of 5 fragments were measured in the presence of USP7 catalytic domain and compounds that showed binding were repeated as singles. Compounds were selected as primary binders based on the signal to noise SINO of 5 in the STD spectra of mixtures and a SINO of 10 from the confirmation measurements. Fragment binders were identified and confirmed in the primary screen and were followed up by addition of the primary binder to 2H 13C 15N isotope labeled USP7 protein and observation and classification of the 15N shift perturbations in TROSY HSQC spectra Pervushin K. Riek R. Wider G. W thrich K. 1997 Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 94 12366 12371 . Shift perturbations allowed grouping of scaffolds to specific binding sites based on the involved amino acids and the USP7 crystal structure. A 15N TROSY overlay shows chemical shift perturbations characteristic of fragment binding to the palm site of USP7.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding the descriptions and examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention. Accordingly all suitable modifications and equivalents may be considered to fall within the scope of the invention as defined by the claims that follow. The disclosures of all patent and scientific literature cited herein are expressly incorporated in their entirety by reference.

