---

title: Maintaining or refraining from entering a sleep mode based on received conditions by application specific sensors
abstract: A data processing device may receive, from an application running on the data processing device, an indication that one or more sensors may be associated with a user input for the application. Based on sensing information collected from the one or more sensors, a characteristic of the user input may be determined by the data processing device. The data processing device may refrain from entering a sleep mode if the characteristic of the user input matches a specific characteristic condition specified by the application. The data processing device may allow entering the sleep mode if the characteristic of the user input does not match the specific characteristic condition for a specific timeout period specified by the application. The data processing device may receive the indication, information on the specific characteristic condition and/or information on the specific timeout period via invoking, by the application, one or more application programming interfaces (APIs).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09632570&OS=09632570&RS=09632570
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09632570
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160728
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 826 635 filed Mar. 14 2013 the contents of which are entirely incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth in this application.

A data processing device such as for example a smart phone a mobile phone a tablet and or other computing device may enter a sleep mode in instances when there is no touch input on a presence sensitive screen e.g. a touchscreen for a short period of time. In this regard system level functions of the data processing device may by default assume that applications running on the data processing device use touch input interaction model. A data processing device may comprise various sensors such as for example an accelerometer a compass a microphone a global positioning system GPS unit a proximity sensor etc. One or more of these sensors may be utilized for interaction with an application for example. In some instances an interaction with an application utilizing one or more of these sensors may not require a touch input on the presence sensitive screen. In such instances the data processing device may enter a sleep mode while a user is interacting with the application via a non touch input which may be associated with one or more of these sensors.

Further limitations and disadvantages of conventional and traditional approaches will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such systems with the present disclosure as set forth in the remainder of the present application with reference to the drawings.

Aspects of the present disclosure are directed to a method and system for preventing sleep mode for devices based on sensor inputs. In various embodiments of the disclosure a data processing device may comprise one or more applications. The data processing device may receive from an application running on the data processing device an indication that one or more sensors may be associated with a user input for the application. Based on sensing information collected from the one or more sensors a characteristic of the user input may be determined by the data processing device. The data processing device may refrain from entering a sleep mode if the characteristic of the user input matches a specific characteristic condition specified by the application. The data processing device may allow entering the sleep mode if the characteristic of the user input does not match the specific characteristic condition for a specific timeout period specified by the application. In this regard the data processing device may receive the indication information on the specific characteristic condition and or information on the specific timeout period via invoking by the application one or more application programming interfaces APIs .

Various advantages aspects and novel features of the present disclosure as well as details of an illustrated embodiment thereof will be more fully understood from the following description and drawings.

Certain embodiments of the disclosure can be found in a method and system for preventing sleep mode for devices based on sensor inputs. Certain specific details are set forth in the following description and in drawings to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the disclosure. Additional embodiments of the present disclosure may be practiced without several of the details described in the following description.

As utilized herein and or means any one or more of the items in the list joined by and or . As an example x and or y means any element of the three element set x y x y . As another example x y and or z means any element of the seven element set x y z x y x z y z x y z . As utilized herein the term exemplary means serving as a non limiting example instance or illustration. As utilized herein the terms e.g. and for example set off lists of one or more non limiting examples instances or illustrations. As utilized herein a device module circuitry etc. is operable to perform a function whenever the device module circuitry etc. comprises the necessary hardware and code if any is necessary to perform the function regardless of whether performance of the function is disabled or not enabled by some user configurable setting.

In various embodiments of the disclosure a data processing device may be operable to receive from an application running on the data processing device an indication that one or more sensors may be associated with a user input for the application. Based on sensing information collected from the one or more sensors a characteristic of the user input may be determined by the data processing device. The data processing device may be operable to refrain from entering a sleep mode if the characteristic of the user input matches a specific characteristic condition specified by the application. The data processing device may be operable to allow entering the sleep mode if the characteristic of the user input does not match the specific characteristic condition for a specific timeout period specified by the application. In this regard the data processing device may be operable to receive the indication information on the specific characteristic condition and or information on the specific timeout period via invoking by the application one or more application programming interfaces APIs . The one or more sensors may comprise for example an accelerometer a directional sensor an acoustic sensor a global navigation satellite system GNSS unit a voltage sensor a proximity sensor an atmospheric sensor a camera and or other sensors.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the specific characteristic condition associated with the accelerometer may comprise a motion acceleration exceeding a specific minimum acceleration value. The specific characteristic condition associated with the directional sensor may comprise for example a sensor heading change exceeding a specific minimum change value. The specific characteristic condition associated with the acoustic sensor may comprise for example an input volume exceeding a specific minimum volume value that may be within a specific frequency range. The specific characteristic condition associated with the GNSS unit may comprise for example a position change exceeding a specific minimum distance. The specific characteristic condition associated with the voltage sensor may comprise for example an input voltage change exceeding a specific minimum voltage value.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the specific characteristic condition may be determined based on a typical characteristic of the user input for the application while the application is running.

The processor may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to process data or signals. The processor may be operable to manage and or control operations of various components or modules in the data processing device such as for example the display module the sleep mode control module and or the sensor s . The processor may utilize an operating system OS that enables the execution of various applications such as the application . In an example embodiment of the disclosure the operating system OS may comprise a plurality of APIs of which APIs are illustrated.

The memory may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to store information such as executable instructions and or data that may be utilized by the processor and or other modules or components in the data processing device . The memory may comprise RAM ROM low latency nonvolatile memory such as flash memory and or other suitable electronic data storage.

The display module may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to display or present processed content to a user. The display module may be integrated within or operatively coupled to the data processing device for example. The display module may comprise for example a presence sensitive screen such as a touchscreen or touch sensitive screen.

The sleep mode control module may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to perform sleep mode control functions for the data processing device . For example the sleep mode control module may be operable to allow the data processing device entering a sleep mode in instances when there is no touch input on the presence sensitive screen at the display module for a certain period of time. In an example embodiment of the disclosure the sleep mode control module may be operable to control entering of the sleep mode based on sensor inputs in addition to the touch input .

A sleep mode may refer to a low power mode for a device such as the data processing device . A sleep mode may save significantly on electrical consumption compared to leaving a device fully on and upon resume allow a user to avoid having to reissue instructions or to wait for a device to reboot. Entering a sleep mode may be equivalent to pausing the state of the device and when restored the operation continues from the same point having the same applications and files open. When a device such as the data processing device is in a sleep mode the device may be in a state of sleep or stand by or suspend or in a state of hibernation. Hibernation is a functionality allowing a device such as the data processing device to be turned off completely while maintaining its state. In this regard in instances when the data processing device is in a state of sleep the machine state may be held in a RAM of the memory for example and the power to unneeded subsystems may be cut and the RAM may be placed into a minimum power state just sufficient to retain its data. In instances when the data processing device is in a state of hibernation the machine state may be saved on a hard disk of the memory swap partition for example.

The sensor s may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to collect sensing information. The sensor s may comprise for example an accelerometer a directional sensor an acoustic sensor a proximity sensor a GNSS unit a voltage sensor an atmospheric sensor and or a camera . In this regard the directional sensor may comprise for example a compass and or a gyroscope. The acoustic sensor may comprise for example a microphone. The GNSS unit may comprise for example a GPS unit. The atmospheric sensor may comprise for example a temperature sensor a humidity sensor and or a barometric pressure sensor. The camera may comprise for example a CMOS camera. In an example embodiment of the disclosure the collected sensing information may be communicated to the sleep mode control module for controlling entering of a sleep mode.

In operation one or more applications may be running on the data processing device . The sleep mode control module may be operable to receive from an application such as the application an indication that one or more sensors may be associated with a user input for the application . In this regard for example the application may or may not rely on touch input for a user to interact with the application . Based on sensing information collected from the one or more sensors a characteristic of the user input may be determined by the sleep mode control module . The sleep mode control module may be operable to refrain the data processing device from entering a sleep mode if the characteristic of the user input matches a specific characteristic condition specified by the application . The sleep mode control module may be operable to allow the data processing device entering the sleep mode if the characteristic of the user input does not match the specific characteristic condition for a specific timeout period specified by the application . In such instances the sleep mode control module may be operable to receive the indication information on the specific characteristic condition and or information on the specific timeout period via invoking by the application one or more APIs .

In an example embodiment of the disclosure one or more parameters of a specific characteristic condition may be set to a value of none . In such instances the parameter which is set to none may not affect the sleep behavior of the data processing device . In addition a value of a parameter of a specific characteristic condition may be determined for example automatically via a tool based on a typical characteristic of the user input for the application while the application is running.

In an example operation the game application may require a user to spin the data processing device on a table top. The sleep mode control module may receive from the game application an indication that an accelerometer and a directional sensor e.g. a compass may be associated with a user input for the game. The game application may specify specific characteristic conditions associated with the accelerometer and the directional sensor the compass . The game application may also specify specific timeout periods e.g. spin timeout seconds corresponding to the specific characteristic conditions. In this regard the specific characteristic condition associated with the accelerometer may comprise for example a motion acceleration exceeding a specific minimum acceleration value e.g. min accel meters per second per second . The specific characteristic condition associated with the directional sensor the compass may comprise for example a sensor heading compass heading change exceeding a specific minimum change value e.g. min rotat degrees . In this regard for example the specific minimum acceleration value may be determined or specified automatically via a tool based on learning a typical acceleration value or range while the game is being played.

The sleep mode control module may be operable to allow the data processing device entering a sleep mode for example if 1 the accelerometer does not detect an acceleration exceeding the specific minimum acceleration value min accel meters per second per second for the specific timeout period spin timeout seconds and 2 the heading of the directional sensor the compass does not change exceed or beyond the specific minimum change value min rotat degrees for the specific timeout period spin timeout seconds .

In an example operation the dictation application may require a user to talk or read to the data processing device . The sleep mode control module may receive from the dictation application an indication that an acoustic sensor e.g. a microphone may be associated with a user input for the dictation application . In this regard the processor in the data processing device may be operable to listen via the acoustic sensor the microphone what the user tells and cause display of a transcription on the screen at the display module as the user talks. The dictation application may specify a specific characteristic condition associated with the acoustic sensor the microphone . The dictation application may also specify a specific timeout period e.g. dict timeout seconds corresponding to the specific characteristic condition. In this regard the specific characteristic condition associated with the acoustic sensor the microphone may comprise for example an input volume exceeding a specific minimum volume value e.g. min volume decibels that is within a specific frequency range e.g. min freq Hz to max freq Hz .

The sleep mode control module may be operable to allow the data processing device entering a sleep mode for example if the acoustic sensor the microphone detects that the input volume stays below the specific minimum volume value min volume decibels at a frequency outside the specific frequency range min freq Hz to max freq Hz for the specific timeout period dict timeout seconds . For example the data processing device may enter the sleep mode in instances when the input volume of the acoustic sensor the microphone stays below 2 decibels dB at a frequency above 200 Hz for 120 seconds.

In an example operation the fitness tracking application may require the user to collect movement data e.g. distance speed elevation etc. using the data processing device . The sleep mode control module may receive from the fitness tracking application an indication that a GNSS unit e.g. a GPS unit may be associated with a user input for the fitness tracking application . In this regard the movement data collected by the GNSS unit the GPS unit may be analyzed or processed by the fitness tracking application for example. In other instances the collected movement data may be communicated by the data processing device to a data center for analysis or processing for example. The fitness tracking application may specify a specific characteristic condition associated with the GNSS unit the GPS unit . The fitness tracking application may also specify a specific timeout period e.g. GNSS timeout seconds corresponding to the specific characteristic condition. In this regard the specific characteristic condition associated with the GNSS unit the GPS unit may comprise for example a position change exceeding a specific minimum distance e.g. min dist meters .

The sleep mode control module may be operable to allow the data processing device entering a sleep mode for example if the GNSS unit the GPS unit does not measure a change in position of the specific minimum distance min dist meters for the specific timeout period GNSS timeout seconds .

In an example operation the multimeter application may require a user to provide an electrical input at a headset jack of the data processing device . The sleep mode control module may receive from the multimeter application an indication that a voltage sensor may be associated with a user input for the multimeter application . In this regard the processor in the data processing device may be operable to detect via the voltage sensor a voltage of the electrical input at the headset jack and cause display of a voltage measurement on the screen at the display module . The multimeter application may specify a specific characteristic condition associated with the voltage sensor . The multimeter application may also specify a specific timeout period e.g. meter timeout seconds corresponding to the specific characteristic condition. In this regard the specific characteristic condition associated with the voltage sensor may comprise for example an input voltage change exceeding a specific minimum voltage value e.g. min voltage volts .

The sleep mode control module may be operable to allow the data processing device entering a sleep mode for example if a change in the input voltage detected by the voltage sensor does not exceed the specific minimum voltage value min voltage volts for the specific timeout period meter timeout seconds .

In various embodiments of the disclosure a sleep mode control module in a data processing device may be operable to receive from an application running on the data processing device an indication that one or more sensors may be associated with a user input for the application . Based on sensing information collected from the one or more sensors a characteristic of the user input may be determined by the sleep mode control module . The sleep mode control module may be operable to refrain the data processing device from entering a sleep mode if the characteristic of the user input matches a specific characteristic condition specified by the application . The sleep mode control module may be operable to allow the data processing device entering the sleep mode if the characteristic of the user input does not match the specific characteristic condition for a specific timeout period specified by the application . In this regard the sleep mode control module may be operable to receive the indication information on the specific characteristic condition and or information on the specific timeout period via invoking by the application one or more APIs . The one or more sensors may comprise for example an accelerometer a directional sensor e.g. a compass and or a gyroscope an acoustic sensor e.g. a microphone a GNSS unit e.g. a GPS unit a voltage sensor a proximity sensor an atmospheric sensor e.g. a temperature sensor a humidity sensor and or a barometric pressure sensor a camera e.g. a CMOS camera and or other sensors.

The specific characteristic condition associated with the accelerometer may comprise for example a motion acceleration exceeding a specific minimum acceleration value e.g. min accel meters per second per second . The specific characteristic condition associated with the directional sensor may comprise for example a sensor heading change exceeding a specific minimum change value e.g. min rotat degrees . The specific characteristic condition associated with the acoustic sensor may comprise for example an input volume exceeding a specific minimum volume value e.g. min volume decibels that may be within a specific frequency range e.g. min freq Hz to max freq Hz . The specific characteristic condition associated with the GNSS unit may comprise for example a position change exceeding a specific minimum distance e.g. min dist meters . The specific characteristic condition associated with the voltage sensor may comprise for example an input voltage change exceeding a specific minimum voltage value e.g. min voltage volts .

The specific characteristic condition may be determined or specified for example automatically via a tool based on a typical characteristic of the user input for the application while the application is running.

Other embodiments of the disclosure may provide a non transitory computer readable medium and or storage medium and or a non transitory machine readable medium and or storage medium having stored thereon a machine code and or a computer program having at least one code section executable by a machine and or a computer thereby causing the machine and or computer to perform the steps as described herein for preventing sleep mode for devices based on sensor inputs.

Accordingly aspects of the present disclosure may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. Aspects of the present disclosure may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems. Any kind of computer system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods described herein.

Aspects of the present disclosure may also be embedded in a computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

While the present disclosure has been described with reference to certain embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present disclosure without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present disclosure not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed but that the present disclosure will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

