---

title: Comment plug-in for third party system
abstract: In particular embodiments, one or more computing devices associated with a third-party system generate a web page comprising one or more references configured to cause a client device to send a request to a web site of a social-networking system to access a user comment, wherein the user comment is associated with content on a third-party web site hosted by the third-party system. The request comprises a first URL that references the web site of the social-networking system, and the first URL comprises a second URL that references the third-party web site and comprises a content identifier for the content, and the request is to cause the web site of the social-networking system to access the user comment in a data store of the social-networking system. The one or more computing devices associated with the third-party system may send the web page to the client device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09646173&OS=09646173&RS=09646173
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09646173
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160304
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 969 368 filed 15 Dec. 2010.

The present disclosure relates generally to a user comment system and more particularly to synchronization and moderation of user comments.

A social networking system such as a social networking website enables its users to interact with it and with each other through the system. The social networking system may create and store a record often referred to as a user profile in connection with the user. The user profile may include a user s demographic information communication channel information and personal interest. The social networking system may also create and store a record of a user s relationship with other users in the social networking system e.g. social graph as well as provide services e.g. wall posts photo sharing or instant messaging to facilitate social interaction between users in the social networking system.

Users of a web site may post comments to contents of the web site. The web site may store user comments as well as moderate user comments such as deleting user comments determined to be irrelevant or inappropriate.

Particular embodiments relate to a user comment system that assigns one or more privacy settings to a user comment associated with a content object hosted by a third party system and stores the user comment in a data store of user comments in association with an identifier for the content object. These and other features aspects and advantages of the disclosure are described in more detail below in the detailed description and in conjunction with the following figures.

The invention is now described in detail with reference to a few embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps and or structures have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present disclosure. In addition while the disclosure is described in conjunction with the particular embodiments it should be understood that this description is not intended to limit the disclosure to the described embodiments. To the contrary the description is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

A social networking system such as a social networking website enables its users to interact with it and with each other through the system. Typically to become a registered user of a social networking system an entity either human or non human registers for an account with the social networking system. Thereafter the registered user may log into the social networking system via an account by providing for example a correct login ID or username and password. As used herein a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over such a social network environment.

When a user registers for an account with a social networking system the social networking system may create and store a record often referred to as a user profile in connection with the user. The user profile may include information provided by the user and information gathered by various systems including the social networking system relating to activities or actions of the user. For example the user may provide his name profile picture contact information birth date gender marital status family status employment education background preferences interests and other demographical information to be included in his user profile. The user may identify other users of the social networking system that the user considers to be his friends. A list of the user s friends or first degree contacts may be included in the user s profile. Connections in social networking systems may be in both directions or may be in just one direction. For example if Bob and Joe are both users and connect with each another Bob and Joe are each connections of the other. If on the other hand Bob wishes to connect to Sam to view Sam s posted content items but Sam does not choose to connect to Bob a one way connection may be formed where Sam is Bob s connection but Bob is not Sam s connection. Some embodiments of a social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections e.g. friends of friends . Connections may be added explicitly by a user for example the user selecting a particular other user to be a friend or automatically created by the social networking system based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . The user may identify or bookmark websites or web pages he visits frequently and these websites or web pages may be included in the user s profile.

The user may provide information relating to various aspects of the user such as contact information and interests at the time the user registers for an account or at a later time. The user may also update his or her profile information at any time. For example when the user moves or changes a phone number he may update his contact information. Additionally the user s interests may change as time passes and the user may update his interests in his profile from time to time. A user s activities on the social networking system such as frequency of accessing particular information on the system may also provide information that may be included in the user s profile. Again such information may be updated from time to time to reflect the user s most recent activities. Still further other users or so called friends or contacts of the user may also perform activities that affect or cause updates to a user s profile. For example a contact may add the user as a friend or remove the user as a friend . A contact may also write messages to the user s profile pages typically known as wall posts. A user may also input status messages that get posted to the user s profile page.

A social network system may maintain social graph information which can generally model the relationships among groups of individuals and may include relationships ranging from casual acquaintances to close familial bonds. A social network may be represented using a graph structure. Each node of the graph corresponds to a member of the social network. Edges connecting two nodes represent a relationship between two users. In addition the degree of separation between any two nodes is defined as the minimum number of hops required to traverse the graph from one node to the other. A degree of separation between two users can be considered a measure of relatedness between the two users represented by the nodes in the graph.

A social networking system may support a variety of applications such as photo sharing on line calendars and events. For example the social networking system may also include media sharing capabilities. For example the social networking system may allow users to post photographs and other multimedia files to a user s profile such as in a wall post or in a photo album both of which may be accessible to other users of the social networking system. Social networking system may also allow users to configure events. For example a first user may configure an event with attributes including time and date of the event location of the event and other users invited to the event. The invited users may receive invitations to the event and respond such as by accepting the invitation or declining it . Furthermore social networking system may allow users to maintain a personal calendar. Similarly to events the calendar entries may include times dates locations and identities of other users.

The social networking system may also support a privacy model. A user may or may not wish to share his information with other users or third party applications or a user may wish to share his information only with specific users or third party applications. A user may control whether his information is shared with other users or third party applications through privacy settings associated with his user profile. For example a user may select a privacy setting for each user datum associated with the user and or select settings that apply globally or to categories or types of user profile information. A privacy setting defines or identifies the set of entities e.g. other users connections of the user friends of friends or third party application that may have access to the user datum. The privacy setting may be specified on various levels of granularity such as by specifying particular entities in the social network e.g. other users predefined groups of the user s connections a particular type of connections all of the user s connections all first degree connections of the user s connections the entire social network or even the entire Internet e.g. to make the posted content item index able and searchable on the Internet . A user may choose a default privacy setting for all user data that is to be posted. Additionally a user may specifically exclude certain entities from viewing a user datum or a particular type of user data.

A social networking system may support a news feed service. A news feed is a data format typically used for providing users with frequently updated content. A social networking system may provide various news feeds to its users where each news feed includes content relating to a specific subject matter or topic and or other users. Various pieces of content may be aggregated into a single news feed. In some implementations a social networking system may provide a news feed that includes selected entries corresponding to activities of a user s first degree contacts and or pages or topics that a user has indicated an interest. Individual users of the social networking system may subscribe to specific news fees of their interest. U.S. Pat. No. 7 669 123 incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes describes a system that can be used to dynamically provide a news feed. A group of related actions may be presented together to a user of the social networking system in the same news feed. For example a news feed concerning the event organized through the social networking system may include information about the event such as its time location and attendees and photos taken at the event which have been uploaded to the social networking system. U.S. application Ser. No. 12 884 010 incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes describes a system that can be used to construct a news feed comprising related actions and present the news feed to a user of the social networking system.

In particular embodiments a user of the social networking system may upload one or more media files to media database . For example a user can upload a photo or a set of photos often called a photo album or a video clip to media database from a client device e.g. a computer or a camera phone . In particular embodiments the one or more media files may contain metadata often called tags associated with each media file. For example a photo shot by a digital camera may contain metadata relating to file size resolution time stamp name of the camera maker and or location e.g. GPS coordinates. A user can add additional metadata values to a photo or tag a photo during an upload process. Some examples of tags of a media file are author title comments event names time location names of people appearing in the media file or user comment. In particular embodiments a user may tag a media file by using a client application e.g. a photo or video editor or entering one or more tags in a graphical user interface of a media uploading tool that uploads a user s one or more media files from a client device to the social networking system. A user may also tag a media file after an upload at a later time in the social networking system s web site. In particular embodiments the social networking system may also extract metadata from a media file and store the metadata in media database .

In particular embodiments news feed engine may access user profile database event database and media database for data about a particular user of the social networking system and assemble a list of one or more activities as news items for a user or a set of users. In particular embodiments news feed engine may access privacy policy database and determines a subset of news items based on one or more privacy settings. In particular embodiments news feed engine may compile a dynamic list of a limited number of news items in a ranked or sorted order. In particular embodiments news feed engine may provide links related to one or more activities in the news items and links providing opportunities to participate in the activities. For example a news feed can comprise wall posts status updates comments and recent check ins to a place with a link to a web page of the place .

In other embodiments news feed engine may access user profile database event database and media database and compile a dynamic list of a limited number of news items about a group of related actions received from users of the social networking system i.e. a news feed . For example a news feed can comprise an event that a user may schedule and organize through the social networking system with a link to participate the event messages about the event posted by the user and other participants of the event and photos of the event uploaded by the user and other participants of the event.

Users of a social networking system can access other websites or third party websites e.g. ESPN.com www.youtube.com . In particular embodiments a user using client device may connect to and communicate with third party website through network cloud . Third party website may comprise web server operatively connected to one or more data stores storing user data and web page information. User data may include for example user name user profile picture and user profile information e.g. location affiliation interest . Web page information may include for example page layout information scripts web page content such as text e.g. ASCII or HTML media data e.g. graphics photos video clips and executable code objects e.g. a game executable within a browser window or frame . In particular embodiments a user may use a web browser or special purpose client application hosted on client device to access their party website by sending an HTTP request to web server causing web server to access the one or more data stores and construct one or more web pages or frames displayed in the web browser or the special purpose client application.

A social networking system may communicate and access third party website and vise versa through network cloud . For example a web page constructed by third party website for a user of a social networking system can contain information from the social networking system such as a frame displaying profile pictures of the user s first degree friends who are currently active on third party website . For example a user s user profile page of a social networking system can contain an embedded video clip that the user posted on third party website . In some embodiments a web page constructed by a first web site may include one or more inline references that cause the client device to access and display content from a second website by incorporating in the web page s HTML document Uniform Resource Locations URLs and or script code e.g. JavaScript PHP AJAX that causes a client application hosted on the client device to access the second website to dynamically provide content specified by the script code e.g. profile pictures . In some embodiments a browser cookie installed by a second website on client device can be used to facilitate accessing the second website. For example requests transmitted to the social networking system for a particular user may include a browser cookie or other token to enable automatic authentication and access to the social networking system for the particular user e.g. to access and display profile pictures of the particular user s first degree friends without the particular user having to manually enter user ID and password information of the social networking system.

Individuals viewing a web page containing particular web content e.g. an article a blog post a photo a video clip etc. can post one or more comments about the particular content on the web page. illustrates an example web page of an article and associated comments. In the example of the web page displays comments and about an article a blog and in line comments and responding to comment . A viewer of the web page can add a new comment in comment box and select post comment icon to submit the new comment causing all or part of the web page to refresh and update with the new comment by the viewer. Ordinarily third party website stores comments in the one or more data stores and displays comments in chronological order e.g. most recent is displayed first in a web page. However comments on the top of the list in a web page may not be most relevant to a viewer of the web page. Particular embodiments herein describe methods in that a social networking system hosts a user comment system for a third party website and presents user comments to a first user based on the first user s social graph information and in some instances one or more privacy settings. Particular embodiments herein can be implemented by a comment hosting process hosted by one or more computing devices of the social networking system.

In particular embodiments a user comment may be a comment associated with particular web content in a web page constructed by third party website . For example a comment associated with an article can be a comment made by a first person to the article and can be a comment made by a second person to the article and can be a comment made by a third person to the comment made by the first person to the article. In particular embodiments a user comment may comprise content information and author information. For example content information can be content of the comment e.g. a text string and a time stamp. Author information can be a name of the author of the user comment e.g. a user name a screen name etc. and a profile picture of the author. In some instances if an author of a user comment prefers to remain anonymous or information about the author is not available a default name e.g. anonymous user and a default profile picture may be assigned to the user comment. In particular embodiments a user comment may further comprise review information. For example review information can be how many up or down votes the user comment has received from viewers of the user comment. For example review information can be how many like counts the user comment had received from viewers of the user comment. For example review information can also include the author s reputation score derived from votes likes or other feedback received by other users across a set of comments e.g. an author can be a popular commentator if he has received positive reviews in ten other comments he made . In particular embodiments a user comment may further comprise or be associated with one or more privacy settings.

In particular embodiments the comment hosting process may store one or more user comments associated with the particular web content in comment database illustrated in . In particular embodiments comment database may be operably connected to system front end and news feed engine . In particular embodiments the comment hosting process may store and access user comments based on a common thread comprising one or more user comments associated with the same web content. In some embodiments the comment hosting process may store and access user comments based on a unique thread identifier. For example a thread identifier can be a combination of URL address of third party website and a web content identifier for the particular web content. illustrates an example data structure of user comments stored in a comment data store. In the example of user comments to a web content article 1234 at web site www.example.com are programming objects linked to a common thread identifier www.example.com article 1234 and each programming object can comprise content information e.g. a text string a time stamp author information e.g. a name a user profile picture thumbnail review information e.g. up down vote count and or one or more privacy settings. Another example data structure of user comments stored in a comment data store can be each comment object containing a thread identifier field as illustrated in . In such an implementation the comment hosting process can store and access the comment objects based on a value of the thread identifier field.

In particular embodiments the comment hosting process may add adjust one or more privacy settings of a user comment stored in comment database based on the user comment author s privacy settings stored in user profile database . For example a first user can configure and store in user profile database a particular privacy setting for his comments on any web content of third party website as only viewable to his first and second degree friends. The comment hosting process can add the particular privacy setting to a user comment made by the first user at third party website when storing the user comment in comment database . In other embodiments the comment hosting process may apply a default privacy setting to a user comment that is global to social networking system e.g. viewable to everyone.

In particular embodiments web server of third party website may include in structured documents transmitted to client applications HTML or other code objects that cause the client applications to transmit requests to the comment hosting process for user comments associated with the particular web content. The request causes the comment hosting process to access comment database and provide the requested user comments. For example web server may construct a web page containing the particular web content and the requested user comments associated with the particular web content. In some embodiments web server may construct a web page of the particular web content e.g. an article a photo or a video clip including an inline frame for user comments associated with the particular web content by using an HTML iframe tag referencing social networking system and a unique identifier for the particular web content or comment thread. illustrates an example web page using an inline frame for user comments. In the example of web server of website www.example.com constructs a web page in HTML of an article about a college football game including an inline frame using a HTML iframe tag referencing the social networking system and a unique identifier for the article www.example.com article 1234 such as 

The foregoing iframe element causes a client application hosted on a client device to transmit a request causing the comment hosting process to access comment database based on the unique identifier. The comment hosting process provides a response including user comments associated with the article to be displayed in the inline frame. In some implementations the response also includes Asynchronous JavaScript and XML AJAX code or alternatively a combination of JavaScript and JavaScript Object Notation JSON code that allows users to post comments either new comments and or in line replies to existing comments. For example an individual can add an additional comment by entering a text string in comment box and selecting Add Comment icon . The AJAX or JSON code of the inline frame transmits a message to social networking system causing comment hosting process to store the additional comment in comment database and refresh content in inline frame to include the additional comment. In some implementations the user viewing the content and submitting comments can be identified based on browser cookies including a user identifier that are appended to various requests transmitted to social networking system. As discussed below the comment hosting process when receiving a comment may also configure a news feed item for processing by news feed engine . Still further the comment entry interface may also allow a user to configure a privacy setting for that particular comment or all comments of the user associated with the particular web content. For example the user may specify that only a custom set of users can access the content or that only those users having a first degree relationship can see the comment whether in a news feed item or displayed in connection with the third party web site. If no particular privacy setting is configured the comment hosting process may apply a default setting that is global to social networking system or a default specified by the user and stored with the user s profile information.

Additionally a user s comment about the particular web content at third party website may appear in the user s news feed in the social networking system or in a news feed of a friend of the user in the social networking system. The news feed object may include a short snippet of the particular content a thumbnail image and a hypertext link to the particular content hosted by third party website . In addition comments to the news feed at the social networking system about the particular web content and comments to the particular web content at third party website may be synchronized since the comments are stored in the same comment database . In some instances the comments are stored based on the same unique thread identifier as described above. In particular embodiments news feed engine may access comment database to include in a news feed one or more comments made by the first user or by a first degree friend of the first user about the particular web content at third party websites . In particular embodiments the first user or a second user when viewing the comments thread from a news feed may add one or more additional comments about the particular web content by adding the additional comments to the news feed item causing news feed engine to store the additional comments about the particular web content in comment database . In particular embodiments news feed engine may access comment database and include the additional comments about the particular web content in the news feed. In particular embodiments web server may construct a web page containing the particular web content and associated user comments causing the comment hosting process to access comment database for user comments associated with the particular web content including the additional comments made by the first user or the second user to the news feed item. Accordingly the comment thread for a particular web content item may include comments entered in connection with the third party web site and the social networking system.

Particular embodiments described above on synchronization of user comments associated with a same web content may not be limited to the social networking system and a third party website. Two or more websites may share particular web content for example multiple newspapers can share a news article provided by a news service agency e.g. Reuters . In particular embodiments two or more websites may synchronize user comments for a particular web content by storing and accessing user comments for the particular web content in comment database using the same comment identifier.

In particular embodiments the comment hosting process may generate a list of user comments weighted by recency . For example the comment hosting process can generate the list of user comments from all user comments associated with the particular web content and place the comments in the list in chronological order e.g. most recent first . In particular embodiments the comment hosting process may adjust the list of user comments based on social graph information of a first user associated with the request . As discussed above the first user may be identified in a browser cookie appended to the request. In particular embodiments the comment hosting process may access user profile database and adjust the order of the list of user comments based on social graph information of the first user. For example the comment hosting process can place comments from the first user s first degree friends at the beginning of the list of user comments. In particular embodiments the comment hosting process may further adjust the order of the list of user comments based on user attributes e.g. locality trustworthiness affiliation and comment attributes e.g. voting reputation . In some embodiments the comment hosting process may assign a weighting score to each of the user comments in the list of user comments based on social graph information user attributes and comment attributes. For example the comment hosting process can assign a weighting score of 1.0 to comments made by the first user s first degree friends. The comment hosting process can assign a weighting score of 0.5 to comments made by users in the same neighborhood i.e. Sunset District San Francisco Calif. as the first user. For example the comment hosting process can assign a weighting score of 0.8 to comments made by users with the same affiliation as the first user or close affinity to the first user e.g. went to the same collage during the same school year . A system for measuring user affinity is described more generally in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 503 093 filed on Aug. 11 2006 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety and for all purposes. For example the comment hosting process can assign a weighting score of 0.7 to comments made by users having a high level of trustworthiness or a reputation score above a threshold. An example process of determining the level of trustworthiness of a user based on user actions is described more generally in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 701 744 filed on Feb. 2 2007 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety and for all purposes. The comment hosting process can assign a weighting score of 0.8 to comments with positive voting reputation e.g. more up votes than down votes . For example the comment hosting process can assign a default weighting score e.g. 0.2 to rest of the comments in the list of user comments. In some embodiments the comment hosting process may adjust the order of the list of user comments based on the weighting score of each comment for example ranking comments with higher weighting scores ahead of comments with lower weighting scores.

In particular embodiments the comment hosting process may adjust the list of user comments based on one or more privacy settings . For example the comment hosting process may access user profile database determine one or more privacy settings for each comment of the list of user comment e.g. as set by each comment s author identify one or more comments that the first user does not have permission to access based on the privacy settings of the commenting users and remove the one or more identified comments from the list of user comments. As discussed above one or more of the comments may include privacy settings specifically configured for the user comment.

In particular embodiments the comment hosting process may present the adjusted list of user comments to the first user . For example the comment hosting process can present the adjusted list of user comments to the first user accessing a web page containing the particular web content by displaying the adjusted list of user comments in an inline frame. For example the comment hosting process can present the adjusted list of user comments to the first user accessing a web page containing a news feed by passing the adjusted list of user comments to news feed engine to be included in the news feed.

In particular embodiments an administrator of third party website or the social networking system may moderate comments. In one implementation the comment hosting process may allow administrator access to comment threads associated with a third party web site. In some implementations the comment thread identifiers may also include or be associated with information identifying a web domain. The social networking system may allow administrators associated with a given web domain to access comment threads associated with the web domain. For example a third party website administrator may modify one or more privacy settings of a user comment in comment database . In particular embodiments an administrator of third party website or the social networking system may moderate user comments of a particular web content of third party website by modifying privacy settings of user comments of the particular web content. In this manner a third party administrator may be able to individually control which comments can be accessed by users generally as opposed to a more limited set of users. In some embodiments the administrator may delete a particular user comment from public view by modifying the privacy setting of the particular user comment as only viewable to first degree friends of the author of the particular user comment. In other embodiments the administrator may delete a particular user comment from public view by modifying the privacy setting of the particular user comment as only accessible to the administrator. In particular embodiments the administrator can black list a particular user by modifying privacy settings of every user comments by the particular user as only accessible to the particular user. In some implementations comments submitted by a first user may by default be viewable only by first degree friends of the first user until a third party web site administrator has had a chance to review the comment and make the comment accessible to all users. In this manner comments which may not be appropriate for a more public or general audience can nevertheless be made available to first degree friends of the user. In other implementations comments by default may be accessible to everyone. An administrator may change the privacy setting of the user comment to be viewable only by the commenting user or the first degree friends of the user.

While the foregoing embodiments may be implemented in a variety of network configurations the following illustrates an example network environment for didactic and not limiting purposes. illustrates an example network environment . Network environment includes a network coupling one or more servers and one or more clients to each other. Network environment also includes one or more data storage linked to one or more servers . Particular embodiments may be implemented in network environment . For example social networking system frontend may be written in software programs hosted by one or more servers . For example event database may be stored in one or more storage . In particular embodiments network is an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet or another network or a combination of two or more such networks . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable network .

One or more links couple a server or a client to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wired wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable links coupling servers and clients to network .

In particular embodiments each server may be a unitary server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server or proxy server. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more servers via one or more links . In particular embodiments data storages may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiment each data storage may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functions implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may be a desktop computer system a notebook computer system a netbook computer system a handheld electronic device or a mobile telephone. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client may enable a network user at client to access network . A client may enable its user to communicate with other users at other clients .

A client may have a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a server and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client may render a web page based on the HTML files from server for presentation to the user. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files. As an example and not by way of limitation web pages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files which a browser may use to render the web page and vice versa where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation look aside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

The present disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend.

