---

title: Application programming interface gateway for sponsored data services
abstract: A method to facilitate secure access to a sponsored data service (SDS) through an application programming interface gateway includes providing an access token to a content provider device, where the access token authorizes the content provider device to receive sponsored data services (SDSs). The method also includes receiving a first request for an SDS resource from the content provider device; generating a first timestamp associated with the first request; determining a destination for the first request, where the destination specifies a network address corresponding to an SDS resource device; forwarding the first request to the SDS resource device based on the determined destination; receiving a first response from the SDS resource device corresponding to the first request; generating a second timestamp associated with the first response; and forwarding the first response, along with the first timestamp and the second timestamp, to the content provider device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09596606&OS=09596606&RS=09596606
owner: VERIZON PATENT AND LICENSING INC.
number: 09596606
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160425
---
User access to wireless communication networks and data services typically involves some form of payment made to the network provider. In some instances a third party may wish to sponsor a user s data consumption in order to entice user engagement. A user s access to sponsored data may involve data exchanges between content providers and a variety of infrastructure devices in order to provide secure access to content and accurate billing to the sponsor for data consumed by the user.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements. The following detailed description does not limit the invention.

Embodiments described herein are directed to an application programming interface API gateway which may facilitate secure access by a content provider to a sponsored data service SDS . An SDS which is also referred to herein as a toll free data service may include a network service that is financially supported by a third party entity. The third party entity hereinafter referred to as a sponsor subsidizes the network data exchanged between a user device and a specified content provider. The sponsor may have a relationship with the network provider that permits the automatic billing of the sponsor for the exchanged data instead of the user of a user device. Thus the data exchanged through the SDS which may also be referred to herein as sponsored data or sponsored content is effectively toll free as seen by the user of the user device. The sponsored data may be downloaded to the user device from the specified content provider. Sponsored content may include for example content represented as alphanumeric text graphics images audio and or video data.

In modern network configurations sponsored content may be provided from a number of different content providers interconnected by one or more networks. In some instances one or more content providers in addition to hosting their own content may act as content aggregators or middlemen and provide access to additional content hosted by other downstream content providers. In order to maintain network security and proper billing and data accounting integrity secure methods may be used to provide sponsored data among the various content providers using architectures which may include an API gateway device. The API gateway device in conjunction with modules and APIs residing within the content providers hereinafter referred to as service side plugins may manage interactions between the content providers and network infrastructure devices supporting SDS resources. Thus the API gateway device may act as a reverse proxy for the content providers in accessing SDS resources. As will be explained in more detail below such secure methods can include the use of time stamps and credentials for authentication and validation of billing and or data accounting. Thus embodiments presented herein reduce the burden of content partners interacting with a variety of infrastructure devices to support sponsored data services.

User device may obtain access to network through wireless network s over any type of known radio channel or combinations thereof. For example user device may access cellular network over wireless channel . Access over wireless channel may be provided through a base station eNodeB etc. within cellular network as will be described in more detail below in reference to an embodiment shown in . In various embodiments cellular network wide area wireless network and or local area wireless network may also communicate with each other in addition to user device . User device may also access network over wireless channel through wide area wireless network . Wide area wireless network may include any type wireless network covering larger areas and may include a mesh network e.g. IEEE 801.11s and or or a WiMAX IEEE 802.16. User device may access network over wireless channel through local area wireless network which may include WiFi e.g. any IEEE 801.11x network where x a b g n and or ac . The wireless network s may exchange data with wide area network that may include backhaul networks backbone networks and or core networks. Content provider device API gateway device and SDS portal device may interface with wide area network and thus with user device over one or more of the air interfaces through wireless network s . In the embodiment shown in SDS resource device s may communicate with API gateway device over for example a back end private network not shown which may be controlled by a network provider. However in other embodiments additionally or alternatively SDS resource device s may also communicate with API gateway device through wide area network .

User device may obtain SDS access to network over one or more air interfaces and or which may be supported by the sponsor to provide content to user device through content provider device . As used herein content may also be referred to herein as media and may include any type of digital data representing user interpretable information including text image audio and or video data. Media may also include one or more combinations of any type of digital data that may be arranged composited and presented to the user such as for example in the form of web pages described using hypertext markup language HTML . Connections for sponsored data exchanges may be established by sponsors who arrange access for particular events and or promotions which may be referred to herein as campaigns . The campaigns may be arranged through SDS portal device assigned by the network provider e.g. a web portal under control of the network provider . In an embodiment the sponsor may access SDS portal device through content provider device . Additionally or alternatively the sponsor may also access SDS portal device through another independent network device not shown . When setting up a particular content provider device to provide sponsored content for a campaign the SDS portal may be used to obtain software and or data files e.g. a server side plugin to facilitate communications through API gateway device for accessing various SDS resource device s . Additionally SDS portal device may provide credentials for the content provider which allow access to SDS resource devices .

When arranging a campaign the sponsor may set various parameters for the campaign such as for example media specification time duration maximum number of users maximum allotment of data etc. . The sponsor may also provide campaign network addresses identifying content providers and customer identifiers indicating the identity of a content provider. Accordingly campaign network addresses and customer identifiers may be entered for content provider device . The campaign network addresses may be used in generating SDS network addresses which are used by the user device to request sponsored content from content provider device . For example a campaign network address may be a URL linking to content provider device that user device may use to access sponsored content.

In order to validate transactions with the infrastructure of the SDS and or ensure that sponsors are properly billed for content API gateway device provides an interface between a network provider s back end infrastructure and content provider device . Accordingly content provider device may exchange data with SDS resource device s through API gateway device as for example a single point of contact. Thus API gateway device may accept requests from content provider for various back end SDS services and then route the requests to the appropriate SDS resource device s depending upon the request. Additionally API gateway device may receive responses from the requests and route the responses back to the requesting content provider device . Moreover to facilitate security sponsor billing and or data consumption tracking API gateway device may further generate timestamps corresponding to received requests from content provider device and or responses from SDS resource device s and bundle timestamps when forwarding the requests to SDS resource devices and or the responses to content provider device .

Further referring to user device may include any type of electronic device having communication capabilities and thus communicate over network using a variety of different channels including both wired and wireless connections. User device may include for example a cellular radiotelephone a smart phone a wearable computer e.g. a wrist watch eye glasses etc. a tablet a set top box STB a mobile phone any type of IP communications device a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP device a laptop computer a palmtop computer a gaming device a media player device or a digital camera that includes communication capabilities e.g. wireless communication mechanisms . User device may use applications or websites to download sponsored content by making network requests using the signed SDS network addresses. Requests for sponsored content may be intercepted by network devices in back end infrastructure not shown which are responsible for tracking downloaded toll free data and billing sponsors campaign for cost of data used.

Wireless network s may include one or more wireless networks of any type such as for example a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a wireless satellite network and or one or more wireless public land mobile networks PLMNs . The PLMN s may include a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA 2000 PLMN a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM PLMN a Long Term Evolution LTE PLMN and or other types of PLMNs not specifically described herein.

Wide area network may be any type of wide area network connecting back haul networks and or core networks and may include a metropolitan area network MAN an intranet the Internet a cable based network e.g. an optical cable network networks operating known protocols including Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM Optical Transport Network OTN Synchronous Optical Networking SONET Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH Multiprotocol Label Switching MPLS and or Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP .

Content provider device may be any type of network device e.g. a web server computer media repository streaming source etc. that may provide access to sponsored content via signed SDS network addresses. The signed SDS network address may link to sponsored content which is hosted locally on content provider device or remotely on one or more content partner devices not shown . Content provider device may be owned by the sponsor or act as agent of the sponsor serving as a middle man to provide access for sponsored content to user device from any content provider identified by signed SDS network identifiers. Content provider device may host and or provide links to any type of media such as for example text audio image video software code etc.

API gateway device may be any type of network device e.g. a server computer etc. or servlet running within a web server that may respond to requests from content provider device for SDS resources and provide responses from SDS resource device s back to content provider device . API gateway device may act as a reverse proxy by redirecting relevant requests to appropriate SDS resource device s by determining network destinations based on requests from content provider devices and determine network destinations of content provider devices based on responses from SDS resource device s . In addition to serving as a reverse proxy API gateway device may generate timestamps associated with received requests and responses and attach the generated timestamps when forwarding the requests and response to the appropriate network device. The timestamps appended to the request response pairs associated with content provider device are used in the determination of billing for the sponsored content used in the SDS sessions.

SDS resource device s may be any type of network device such as for example a server computer a servlet etc. which may reside in the back end infrastructure of sponsored data service and may be controlled in whole or in part by a network provider. SDS resource devices may provide various resources in response to requests from content provider devices received through API gateway device . Examples of SDS resource device s may include authentication devices for validating SDS requests content provider devices and or their associated sponsors user devices and or client end users. SDS resource device s may also include various managers and or collection devices to facilitate sponsor billing and data usage tracking. For example SDS resource device s may include a session timing record manager STRM which may collect and manage time stamps received from the API gateway device.

SDS portal device may be any type of network device such as for example a server computer etc. that receives information from sponsors and or their agents to generate and modify a campaign for sponsored data. In embodiments provided herein the sponsor may designate content provider device either under the direct control of the sponsor or as a designated agent to create the campaign by logging into SDS portal device to supply campaign network addresses e.g. campaign URLs for content providers and customer identifiers e.g. customer identification numbers associated with the campaign network addresses. SDS portal device may provide content provider devices credentials such as client identifiers IDs and or client secrets software APIs e.g. service side plugins described below in relation to and or data to facilitate exchanges with the SDS resource device s through API gateway device . Content provider devices may also log into SDS portal device to obtain APIs and or security credentials used for signing SDS network addresses to validate requests from user device .

Wireless network may be a long term evolution LTE network and include one or more devices that are physical and or logical entities interconnected via standardized interfaces. Wireless network provides wireless packet switched services and wireless IP connectivity to user devices to provide for example data voice and or multimedia services. The ePC may further include a mobility management entity MME a serving gateway SGW device a packet data network gateway PGW and a home subscriber server HSS . The eUTRAN may further include one or more eNodeBs A and B herein referred to plurally as eNodeB and individually as eNodeB . It is noted that depicts a representative networking system with exemplary components and configuration shown for purposes of explanation. Other embodiments may include additional or different network entities in alternative configurations than which are exemplified in .

Further referring to each eNodeB may include one or more devices and other components having functionality that allow UE to wirelessly connect to eUTRAN . eNodeB A and eNodeB B may each interface with ePC via a S1 interface which may be split into a control plane S1 MME interface A and a data plane S1 U interface . For example S1 MME interface A may interface with MME device . S1 MME interface A may be implemented for example with a protocol stack that includes a Network Access Server NAS protocol and or Stream Control Transmission Protocol SCTP . S1 U interface B may interface with SGW and may be implemented for example using a General Packet Radio Service Tunneling Protocol version 2 GTPv2 . ENodeB A may communicate with eNodeB B via an X2 interface . X2 interface may be implemented for example with a protocol stack that includes an X2 application protocol and SCTP.

MME device may implement control plane processing for ePC . For example MME device may implement tracking and paging procedures for UE may activate and deactivate bearers for UE may authenticate a user of UE and may interface to non LTE radio access networks. A bearer may represent a logical channel with particular quality of service QoS requirements. MME device may also select a particular SGW for a particular UE . A particular MME device may interface with other MME devices in ePC and may send and receive information associated with UEs which may allow one MME device to take over control plane processing of UEs serviced by another MME device if the other MME device becomes unavailable.

SGW may provide an access point to and from UE may handle forwarding of data packets for UE A and may act as a local anchor point during handover procedures between eNodeBs . SGW may interface with PGW through an S5 S8 interface . S5 S8 interface may be implemented for example using GTPv2.

PGW may function as a gateway to IP network through a SGi interface . IP network may include for example an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS network which may provide voice and multimedia services to UE based on Session Initiation Protocol SIP . A particular UE while connected to a single SGW may be connected to multiple PGWs one for each packet network with which UE communicates.

Alternatively UE B may exchange data with IP network though WiFi wireless access point WAP . The WiFi WAP may be part of a local area network and access IP network through a wired connection via a router. Alternatively WiFi WAP may be part of a mesh network e.g. IEEE 801.11s . WiFi WAP may be part of a local area network or part of a wide area network WiMaxx or a mesh network IEEE 801.11s .

MME device may communicate with SGW through an S11 interface . S11 interface may be implemented for example using GTPv2. S11 interface may be used to create and manage a new session for a particular UE . S11 interface may be activated when MME device needs to communicate with SGW such as when the particular UE attaches to ePC when bearers need to be added or modified for an existing session for the particular UE when a connection to a new PGW needs to created or during a handover procedure e.g. when the particular UE needs to switch to a different SGW .

HSS device may store information associated with UEs and or information associated with users of UEs . For example HSS device may store user profiles that include authentication and access authorization information. MME device may communicate with HSS device through an S6a interface . S6a interface may be implemented for example using a Diameter protocol.

Content provider device may be any type of web server media repository streaming source etc. that can provide UE with sponsored content which is locally hosted or provided from another networked content partner device not shown . Content provider device may exchange information using a standard TCP IP interface with IP network and further communicate with ePC using SGi . Communications between content provider device and UEs may be performed through ePC and eUTRAN as shown for UE A or through WiFi WAP as shown for UE B. Content provider device may provide any form of media text audio image video etc. to requesting UE . Moreover content provider device may provide simultaneous broadcast of data to a plurality of UEs using simulcast and or multicast techniques such as for example any type of multimedia broadcast multicast service MBMS and or evolved MBMS eMBMS over LTE. In one embodiment UE may provide a request to content provider device over wireless network . The request for sponsored data access may be initially received by the eUTRAN and then forwarded through gateways SGW and PGW to content provider device . The communications between content provider device and UE may be channel agnostic and thus may be performed using any known wireless and or wired channels or combinations thereof. Accordingly other methods for communication between content provider device and UE may be used which are not illustrated in .

API gateway device may be any type of network device computer web server etc. which may act as an intermediary between content provider device and SDS resource device s . API gateway device may interface to IP network for exchanging data between content provider device and SDS resource device s .

SDS resource device s may be network device computer web server etc. which may provide resources to content provider devices to facilitate sponsored data services. SDS resource device s may interface to IP network to exchange data with other network components for example with content provider device through API gateway device .

SDS portal device may be any type of web server computer network device etc. that may be used to generate and modify a campaign for sponsored data based on information received from sponsor controlled devices such as for example content provider device . In embodiments provided herein the sponsor may create the campaign by logging into SDS portal device to supply campaign network addresses and customer identifiers associated with the campaign network addresses. SDS portal device may exchange information with content provider device using for example a standard TCP IP interface with IP network .

While shows exemplary components of system in other implementations networking system may include fewer components different components differently arranged components or additional components than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more components of networking system may perform functions described as being performed by one or more other components of networking system .

Content provider device may receive a request for sponsored content e.g. a request for movie files from a movie site from end users via user device over network . Application server may initially process the sponsored content request which may be received via an SDS network address used by mobile device to access content provider device . In an embodiment the SDS network address and content request may be made in the form of a URL request using hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . Application server may pass the sponsored content request to server side plugin which detects the SDS network address and caches selected information received from the SDS network address in server side plugin database . The cached information may include for example the credentials of the user making the request. Additionally server side plugin database may also cache timestamps generated by API gateway device as will be described in more detail below in regards to .

In order to authenticate the sponsored content request and or to record information for billing and or data usage e.g. timestamps server side plugin may access SDS resource device s via wide area network through API gateway device . SDS resource device s may be embodied in back end infrastructure devices and thus may be protected by network security devices e.g. firewalls . Accordingly access to SDS resource device s by server side plugin is securely managed by API gateway device . All requests going through API gateway device may be validated by authentication device .

SDS resource device s may further include STRM which records and manages timestamps generated by API gateway device . The timestamps appended to the request response pairs involved with server side plugin aide in the proper calculation of Session Timing Records STR which may be used for billing information and or data usages associated with SDS e.g. HTTP secure sessions. Described below is a simplified description of the call flow for server side plugin to access services of STRM through API gateway device . Detailed descriptions of different call flows are described in relation to .

Initially server side plugin may send a call to STRM requesting that it record a timestamp generated by API gateway device . Server side plugin may send the call via wide area network to API gateway device . API gateway device may access authentication device to determine if content provider device is authorized to send this call to STRM . Upon being validated by authentication device API gateway device may determine from information embedded in the call that the STRM is the appropriate destination to forward the call and then may generate a timestamp of when the call was received and forward the call along with the timestamp to the STRM . STRM may process the call and record received timestamp and provide an acknowledgment back to the API gateway device . The API gateway device may generate another timestamp of when the acknowledgment was received and forward the acknowledgment and the timestamp pair to the server side plugin .

Internally API gateway device may determine a destination to forward traffic based on information received in the request e.g. in a uniform resource identifier . The destinations for traffic may be defined in configuration file . When a request is received API gateway device may execute a mapping according to mapping file to determine whether the API gateway device will take action on the request or not. The mapping permits the API gateway device to parse information e.g. characters in the received request to match string patterns associated with different SDS resource devices . If a match is determined and a string pattern is recognized then API gateway device may obtain a network address of the SDS resource device corresponding to the matched string pattern. In an embodiment mapping file may be in the form of an extensible markup language XML file and configuration file may be a text based data that can be manually specified.

Bus includes a path that permits communication among the components of API gateway device . Processor may include any type of single core processor multi core processor microprocessor latch based processor and or processing logic or families of processors microprocessors and or processing logics that interprets and executes instructions. In other embodiments processor may include an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA and or another type of integrated circuit or processing logic. For example processor may be an x86 based CPU and may use any operating system which may include varieties of the Windows UNIX and or Linux operating systems. Processor may also use high level analysis software packages and or custom software written in any programming and or scripting languages for interacting with other network entities are communicatively coupled to WAN .

Memory may include any type of dynamic storage device that may store information and or instructions for execution by processor and or any type of non volatile storage device that may store information for use by processor . For example memory may include a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device a read only memory ROM device or another type of static storage device and or a removable form of memory such as a flash memory. Mass storage may include any type of on board device suitable for storing large amounts of data and may include one or more hard drives solid state drives and or various types of redundant array of independent disks RAID arrays. Mass storage device is suitable for storing data associated with for example mapping file configuration file various credentials for example client identifiers and client secrets etc.

Input device which may be optional can allow an operator to input information into API gateway device if required. Input device may include for example a keyboard a mouse a pen a microphone a remote control an audio capture device an image and or video capture device a touch screen display and or another type of input device. In some embodiments API gateway device may be managed remotely and may not include input device . Output device may output information to an operator of API gateway device . Output device may include a display such as a liquid crystal display LCD a printer a speaker and or another type of output device. In some embodiments API gateway device may be managed remotely and may not include output device .

Communication interface may include a transceiver that enables API gateway device to communicate with other devices and or systems over a network e.g. wide area network IP network etc. . Communications interface may be configured to exchange data over wired communications e.g. conductive wire twisted pair cable coaxial cable transmission line fiber optic cable and or waveguide etc. or a combination of wireless. In other embodiments communication interface may communicate using a wireless communications channel such as for example radio frequency RF infrared and or visual optics etc. Communication interface may include a transmitter that converts baseband signals to RF signals and or a receiver that converts RF signals to baseband signals. Communication interface may be coupled to one or more antennas for transmitting and receiving RF signals. Communication interface may include a logical component that includes input and or output ports input and or output systems and or other input and output components that facilitate the transmission reception of data to from other devices. For example communication interface may include a network interface card e.g. Ethernet card for wired communications and or a wireless network interface e.g. a WiFi card for wireless communications. Communication interface may also include a universal serial bus USB port for communications over a cable a Bluetooth wireless interface an radio frequency identification device RFID interface a near field communications NFC wireless interface and or any other type of interface that converts data from one form to another form.

As described below API gateway device may perform certain operations relating to facilitating secure communications between content provider devices and SDS resource device s . API gateway device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions contained in a computer readable medium such as memory and or mass storage . The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device. The software instructions contained in memory may cause processor to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Although shows exemplary components of API gateway device in other implementations API gateway device may include fewer components different components additional components or differently arranged components than depicted in .

Initially content provider device may send a request for a particular SDS resource to API gateway device M . API gateway device may generate a timestamp T upon receiving request M from content provider device Block . The timestamp may include time and date information and may be in conformance with the International Organization for Standardization ISO 8601 standard. API gateway device may also cache timestamps so they may be provided to content provider device at a later time. API gateway device may then capture header information in request M Block which may include various metadata including credentials associated with the content provider device destination information etc. API gateway device may obtain a destination network address for a particular SDS resource device Block The destination network address e.g. a URI may be determined by matching string patterns in the received request M using instructions found in mapping file and network addresses corresponding to string patterns specified in configuration file .

Once the destination network address is determined API gateway device may forward the request received from content provider device to the particular SDS resource device M . The SDS resource device may process the request Block and then provide a response to the request back to API gateway device M . The API gateway device may capture header information in response M Block . API gateway device may then generate a timestamp T upon receiving the response M Block . Once the timestamp T is generated API gateway device may forward the response to the request along with both timestamps T and T to content provider device M . Because timestamp T can be cached by API gateway device after being generated in Block the timestamps T and T may be both provided in a single message M thus improving efficiency. Server side plugin may store timestamps T and T and determine a difference between the two timestamps to assist in subsequent billing associated with sponsored content provided by content provider device .

If the authentication header is determined to be valid in Block then API gateway device may send a request to authentication device to validate the access token M . Upon receiving request M authentication device may validate the access token Block . If the access token is valid authentication device may send a confirmation message indicating the access token is valid to API Gateway device M . API gateway device may then determine that the destination in STRM call M is STRM Block . API gateway device may then forward the STRM call and validated access token along with timestamp T determined in Block to STRM M . STRM will record timestamp T and provide a STRM acknowledgement ACK back to API gateway device M . API gateway device may then generate another timestamp T corresponding to STRM ACK M Block . API gateway device may then send the STRM ACK along with timestamp T and timestamp T back to content provider device M .

Alternatively if the authentication header is determined to be valid by API gateway device in Block but the access token is determined to be invalid by authentication device in Block then authentication device will provide an error message to API gateway device M . API gateway device will forward the error message to content provider device M .

In another case if the authentication header is determined to be invalid by API gateway device in block or the authentication header was not found in STRM call M then API gateway device will provide an error message to content provider M .

Initially API gateway device may provide an access token to content provider device where the access token authorizes content provider device to access resources to facilitate sponsored data services SDS Block . API gateway device may receive a request for an SDS resource from content provider device Block . API gateway device may then generate a first timestamp associated with the request received from content provider for the SDS resource Block . API gateway device may determine a destination for the request for the SDS resource where the destination specifies a network address corresponding to a particular SDS resource device Block . API gateway device may forward the request to the SDS resource device based on the determined destination Block . API gateway device may receive a response from SDS resource device corresponding to the first request Block . API gateway device may generate a second timestamp associated with the received response Block . API gateway device may forward the response along with the first timestamp and the second timestamp to content provider device . The timestamps allow content provider device to facilitate security and track sponsored content access and or data consumption to properly bill sponsors and or analyze sponsored data provided to the user via user device in a toll free manner.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

The foregoing description of implementations provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the invention. For example while series of messages and or blocks have been described with regard to the order of the messages and or blocks may be modified in other embodiments. Further non dependent messaging and or processing blocks may be performed in parallel.

Certain features described above may be implemented as logic or a unit that performs one or more functions. This logic or unit may include hardware such as one or more processors microprocessors application specific integrated circuits or field programmable gate arrays software or a combination of hardware and software.

To the extent the aforementioned embodiments collect store or employ personal information provided by individuals it should be understood that such information shall be used in accordance with all applicable laws concerning protection of personal information. Additionally the collection storage and use of such information may be subject to consent of the individual to such activity for example through well known opt in or opt out processes as may be appropriate for the situation and type of information. Storage and use of personal information may be in an appropriately secure manner reflective of the type of information for example through various encryption and anonymization techniques for particularly sensitive information.

The terms comprises and or comprising as used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps or components but does not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps components or groups thereof. Further the term exemplary e.g. exemplary embodiment exemplary configuration etc. means as an example and does not mean preferred best or likewise.

No element act or instruction used in the description of the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the invention unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

