---

title: System and method for monitoring life of automobile oil
abstract: The present disclosure discloses a method and a device for monitoring life of automobile oil. The method comprising, receiving, by an oil life indication device, a video from an imaging unit communicatively coupled to the oil life indication device, where the video displays spreading of the automobile oil over a slope surface. The method comprises extracting a plurality of image frames from the video, determining one or more parameter values for at least one quality factors of the automobile oil and comparing the one or more parameter values with predefined threshold values to estimate life of the automobile oil.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09595097&OS=09595097&RS=09595097
owner: WIPRO LIMITED
number: 09595097
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20160329
---
The present disclosure relates generally to a method for monitoring life of a fluid. In particular the present disclosure relates to a method and an oil life indication device for monitoring life of automobile oil using image processing techniques.

It is known that various machines need fluid to operate smoothly. One such machine being an automobile which needs engine oil for proper working of the engine. The role of engine oil is to keep the moving parts of the engine lubricated to protect them against friction rust and corrosion. Hence it is required to change automobile engine oil at right time to keep the functioning as well as health of the automobile in good condition. Over time during usage the engine oil breaks down leading to change in the colour of the oil.

Normally the service manual of automobile specifies the schedule and period for changing the oil depending upon usage. The oil change schedule is mostly synchronized with the normal service schedule of the automobile which in most cases is based on either usage or the duration from latest service. Sometimes during servicing of an automobile it has been found that the oil change is not necessary despite being recommended as per the service manual. Hence a user may conclude that is not always necessary to change the oil every time the automobile is serviced. At times even if the colour and texture of the oil may be deceiving. Thus a change in colour may not always mean that the oil life has expired.

In such a situation the user always faces a dilemma whether to change the oil as recommended in the normal service manual or skip changing the oil. If at all a decision to not change the oil is taken the user cannot be accurate and certain about the decision taken.

The present disclosure presents a method and an oil life indication device for monitoring life of automobile oil by applying image processing techniques on plurality of images of the automobile oil received from an imaging unit.

In one embodiment the present disclosure discloses a method for monitoring life of automobile oil. The method comprising receiving by an oil life indication device a video from an imaging unit communicatively coupled to the oil life indication device where the video displays spreading of the automobile oil over a slope surface extracting a plurality of image frames from the video determining one or more parameter values for at least one quality factors of the automobile oil and comparing the one or more parameter values with predefined threshold values to estimate life of the automobile oil.

In an embodiment the present disclosure presents an oil life indication device for monitoring life of automobile oil comprising a processor and a memory communicatively coupled to the processor. Here the processor is configured to receive a video from an imaging unit communicatively coupled to the oil life indication device where the video displays spreading of the automobile oil over a slope surface extract a plurality of image frames from the video determine one or more parameter values for at least one quality factors of the automobile oil and compare the one or more parameter values with predefined threshold values to estimate life of the automobile oil.

In another embodiment the present disclosure relates to a non transitory computer readable medium including instructions stored thereon that when processed by at least one processor causes a monitoring device to perform the act of receiving a video from an imaging unit communicatively coupled to the oil life indication device where the video displays spreading of the automobile oil over a slope surface extracting a plurality of image frames from the video determining one or more parameter values for at least one quality factors of the automobile oil and comparing the one or more parameter values with predefined threshold values to estimate life of the automobile oil.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that any block diagrams herein represent conceptual views of illustrative systems embodying the principles of the present subject matter. Similarly it will be appreciated that any flow charts flow diagrams state transition diagrams pseudo code and the like represent various processes which may be substantially represented in computer readable medium and executed by a computer or processor whether or not such computer or processor is explicitly shown.

In the present document the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment or implementation of the present subject matter described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments.

While the disclosure is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiment thereof has been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail below. It should be understood however that it is not intended to limit the disclosure to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary the disclosure is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternative falling within the scope of the disclosure.

While the disclosure is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiment thereof has been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail below. It should be understood however that it is not intended to limit the disclosure to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary the disclosure is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and the scope of the disclosure.

The terms comprises comprising or any other variations thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a setup device or method that comprises a list of components or steps does not include only those components or steps but may include other components or steps not expressly listed or inherent to such setup or device or method. In other words one or more elements in a system or apparatus proceeded by comprises . . . a does not without more constraints preclude the existence of other elements or additional elements in the system or apparatus.

Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to a method and an oil life indication device for monitoring life of automobile oil. The oil life indication device applies image processing techniques on plurality of images of the automobile oil to extract certain features of the oil. Then the extracted features are compared with predefined parameters to estimate life of the automobile oil. Further the estimation is monitored and notified to a user thereby indicating when to change the oil.

In an embodiment the present disclosure presents an oil life indication device for monitoring life of automobile oil. of the present disclosure shows a block diagram of an oil life indication device communicatively coupled with an imaging unit to estimate life of automobile oil herein referred to as oil. As shown in the oil is dropped on a surface positioned at a predefined angle to form a slope. The imaging unit captures a video of the oil as it spreads over the surface . In one embodiment the imaging unit may be connected to the oil life indication device either through wired interface or wireless interface. In an embodiment the imaging unit may be integrated into the oil life indication device . Further the oil life indication device receives the captured video and estimates life of the oil by analyzing one or more quality factors of the oil. In an exemplary embodiment a user may drop a predefined amount of oil over the surface . In an embodiment the surface may be a smooth surface enabling uniform spreading of the oil. For example the surface may include but is not limited to a glass surface a metal surface a wooden surface etc.

In an embodiment one or more data may be stored within the memory . The one or more data may include for example image frames parameter values automobile parameters and other data . Image frames A image frames B . . . image frames N may be collectively represented as plurality of image frames . Parameter values A Parameter values B . . . Parameter values N may be collectively represented as one or more Parameter values . The processor estimates life of the oil based on the one or more parameter values. Automobile parameters A automobile parameters B . . . automobile parameters N may be collectively represented as one or more automobile parameters . Also the one or more data may comprise other data . The other data may be used to store data including temporary data and temporary files generated by modules for performing various functions of oil life indication device .

In an embodiment the one or more quality factors of the oil may include but are not limited to colour dust particles dust particles density size of the dust particles viscosity and velocity of the flow of the automobile oil. In an embodiment the one or more quality factors may also include other parameters pertaining to the automobile oil.

In an embodiment the one or more automobile parameters may include but are not limited to type of oil type of automobile amount of usage of the automobile and type of terrain the automobile is used. In an embodiment the automobile parameters may also include other parameters pertaining to the automobile.

In an embodiment the one or more data in the memory is processed by modules of the oil life indication device . The modules may be stored within the memory . In an example the modules communicatively coupled with the processor may also be present outside the memory . As used herein the term module refers to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC an electronic circuit a processor shared dedicated or group and memory that execute one or more software or firmware programs a combinational logic circuit and or other suitable components that provide the described functionality.

In one implementation the modules may include for example a receiving module a pre processing module a parameter determination module an oil life estimation module and other modules . It will be appreciated that such aforementioned modules may be represented as a single module or a combination of different modules.

In an embodiment the receiving module receives one or more user inputs. The one or more user inputs are at least one of type of oil type of automobile amount of usage of the automobile and type of terrain the automobile is used. Further the one or more user inputs are selected from the one or more automobile parameters stored in the database. Further the one or more user inputs are received by the oil life identification device through the I O interface . Further the receiving module receives the video captured by the imaging unit .

In an embodiment the pre processing module receives the video from the receiving module . Then the pre processing module extracts plurality of image frames of the oil with respect to time using image processing techniques. Further the pre processing module processes the plurality of image frames which are used for estimating life of the oil. The processing of the plurality of image frames may include but are not limited to image enhancement contrast and brightness normalization rotation alignment scale adjustment segmentation etc.

In one embodiment the parameter determination module receives the plurality image frames from the pre processing module . The parameter determination module determines corresponding one or more parameter values for each of the one or more quality factors of the oil. The one or more quality factors of the oil may be but are not limited to colour dust particles dust particles density size of the dust particles viscosity and velocity of the flow of the automobile oil. In one embodiment the parameter determination module may apply various image processing techniques on the plurality of image frames to determine the one or more parameter values .

In an embodiment the oil life estimation module receives the one or more parameter values from the parameter determination module . Further the oil life estimation module compares the one or more parameters values with corresponding predefined one or more parameter values based on the one or more user inputs.

In an embodiment the predefined one or more parameter values may be stored in the database. In an embodiment the predefined one or more parameter values are threshold values corresponding to the one or more quality factors. The predefined one or more parameter values may also be referred as predefined one or more threshold values. Further the oil life estimation module determines a final value from the comparison using machine learning algorithms. Upon comparing the final value with a predefined final value the oil life estimation module estimates life of the oil.

In an embodiment the oil life indication device displays the estimated oil life to the user using the display unit . In an exemplary embodiment the oil life indication device monitors the life of the oil and indicates the user the life of the oil at predefined intervals. In an embodiment the oil life indication device may be integrated with an automobile to continuously estimate and monitor life of the automobile oil in real time.

In an embodiment the memory may also comprise other data related to the oil for estimating and monitoring the life of the oil. In an embodiment the memory may also comprise other modules to perform tasks for estimating and monitoring life of the oil.

As illustrated in the method may comprise one or more steps to estimate and monitor life of an automobile oil. The method may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions. Generally computer executable instructions can include routines programs objects components data structures procedures modules and functions which perform particular functions or implement particular abstract data types.

The order in which the method is described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described method blocks can be combined in any order to implement the method. Additionally individual blocks may be deleted from the methods without departing from the spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore the method can be implemented in any suitable hardware software firmware or combination thereof.

At step receive by the oil life indication device a video from the imaging unit communicatively coupled to the oil life indication device . Here the imaging unit captures a video of the oil spreading over the surface . The oil life indication device receives the captured video from the imaging unit to estimate and monitor life of the oil. In an embodiment the oil life indication device may receive the video from the imaging unit through wired interface or wireless interface.

In an embodiment the surface is placed at a predefined angle to form a slope. The surface is inclined at the predefined angle for enabling the oil to spread at a uniform rate over the surface . In an embodiment the user may drop the oil on the surface .

At step extracting by the pre processing module a plurality of image frames from the video. The oil life indication device extracts a plurality of image frames from the received video from the imaging unit communicatively coupled with the oil life indication device . Here the plurality of image frames are extracted with respect to time i.e. each of the plurality of image frames shows spreading of the oil over the surface at a predefined unit of time. The plurality of image frames are used to determine the one or more parameter values corresponding to the one or more quality factors of the oil.

At step determining by the parameter determination module one or more parameter values corresponding to the one or more quality factors from the plurality of image frames . The oil life indication device uses image processing techniques to determine the one or more parameter values . Further the oil life indication device estimates and monitors life of the oil based on the one or more parameter values.

At step comparing by the oil life estimation module the one or more parameter values with predefined one or more threshold values to estimate life of the oil. Each of the predefined one or more threshold values correspond to respective one or more quality factors. The oil life indication device compares the determined parameter values with the corresponding predefined one or more threshold values based on the one or more user inputs. Further the oil life indication device determines a final value from the comparison using machine learning algorithms. Upon comparing the final value with a predefined final value the oil life indication device estimates life of the oil.

In one embodiment consider an example of estimating life of the oil with the data as represented in table 1. The data shown in table 1 are stored in the database. The data shown in table 1 are considered for few quality factors and automobile parameters.

From Table 1 the types of automobile are Vehicle 1 and vehicle 2. The type of oil is oil 1 and oil 2. From the data as shown in Table 1 the user selects the automobile type and automobile parameters . In one instance let the user select automobile type as Vehicle 1 and oil 1 as the oil type. The oil life indication device begins the method for estimating life of the oil with receiving a video of the oil 1 spreading over the surface . Further the oil life indication device extracts plurality of image frames from the video. Furthermore the oil life indication device determines the one or more parameter values corresponding to the one or more quality factors from the extracted plurality of image frames . The determined parameter values are then compared with threshold values corresponding to the selected user inputs. From the table the threshold value for the selected user inputs is 0.926. The determined parameter value is compared with the threshold value 0.926. Further the oil life indication device determines a final value based on the comparison made. The determined final value is then compared with a predefined final value to estimate life of the oil. From the table the predefined final value for the selected user inputs is 0.295. The oil life indication device compares the determined final value with predefined final value 0295 and estimates the oil life using machine algorithm.

In an embodiment the oil life indication device can be used to identify life of any fluid compatible with the requiring the method steps as described in this disclosure. In an embodiment the oil life indication device stores the estimated oil life data and the determined parameters for the one or more user inputs in the database. The machine learning algorithm uses the stored data for subsequent estimation for similar type of data thus increasing the accuracy of estimation.

In an embodiment a method for extracting the one or more image frames is disclosed herein. Firstly the oil is dropped in the centre of the surface and a video of the oil spreading over the surface is captured by the imaging unit . Then the pre processing module extracts individual image frames from the video to generate a sequence of predefined image format. Here the pre processing module extracts an image frame at a predefined time interval to receive plurality of image frames . In one embodiment the image formats can be but is not limited to Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG Portable Network Graphics PNG and Bit Map BMP . The extracted plurality of image frames are used to determine one or more parameter values corresponding to the one or more quality factors. The oil life indication device estimates the oil life based on the one or more parameter values .

In an embodiment a method for determining parameter values for based on colour of the oil is disclosed. In an example the present disclosure uses Blob detection methods to determined parameter values based on colour of the oil. The method comprises detecting regions in the image that differ in properties such as brightness or colour compared to surrounding regions. Blob is a region of an image in which some properties are constant or approximately constant. Further the method comprises converting the captured colour image to the predefined format thereby easing the colours to separate. Further the image is split into components for determining the parameter values .

The processor may be disposed in communication with one or more input output I O devices not shown via I O interface . The I O interface may employ communication protocols methods such as without limitation audio analog digital monoaural RCA stereo IEEE 1394 serial bus universal serial bus USB infrared PS 2 BNC coaxial component composite digital visual interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RF antennas S Video VGA IEEE 802.n b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax or the like etc.

Using the I O interface the computer system may communicate with one or more I O devices. For example the input device may be an antenna keyboard mouse joystick infrared remote control camera card reader fax machine dongle biometric reader microphone touch screen touchpad trackball stylus scanner storage device transceiver video device source etc. The output device may be a printer fax machine video display e.g. cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED plasma Plasma display panel PDP Organic light emitting diode display OLED or the like audio speaker etc.

In some embodiments the computer system is connected to the service operator through a communication network . The processor may be disposed in communication with the communication network via a network interface . The network interface may communicate with the communication network . The network interface may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP token ring IEEE 802.11a b g n x etc. The communication network may include without limitation a direct interconnection e commerce network a peer to peer P2P network local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless network e.g. using Wireless Application Protocol the Internet Wi Fi etc. Using the network interface and the communication network the computer system may communicate with the one or more service operators.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with a memory e.g. RAM ROM etc. not shown in via a storage interface . The storage interface may connect to memory including without limitation memory drives removable disc drives etc. employing connection protocols such as serial advanced technology attachment SATA Integrated Drive Electronics IDE IEEE 1394 Universal Serial Bus USB fibre channel Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI etc. The memory drives may further include a drum magnetic disc drive magneto optical drive optical drive Redundant Array of Independent Discs RAID solid state memory devices solid state drives etc.

The memory may store a collection of program or database components including without limitation user interface an operating system web server etc. In some embodiments computer system may store user application data such as the data variables records etc. as described in this disclosure. Such databases may be implemented as fault tolerant relational scalable secure databases such as Oracle or Sybase.

The operating system may facilitate resource management and operation of the computer system . Examples of operating systems include without limitation Apple Macintosh OS X Unix Unix like system distributions e.g. Berkeley Software Distribution BSD FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD etc. Linux distributions e.g. Red Hat Ubuntu Kubuntu etc. IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows XP Vista 7 8 10 etc. Apple iOS Google Android Blackberry OS or the like.

In some embodiments the computer system may implement a web browser stored program component. The web browser may be a hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari etc. Secure web browsing may be provided using Secure Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTPS Secure Sockets Layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS etc. Web browsers may utilize facilities such as AJAX DHTML Adobe Flash JavaScript Java Application Programming Interfaces APIs etc. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail server stored program component. The mail server may be an Internet mail server such as Microsoft Exchange or the like. The mail server may utilize facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI C C Microsoft .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP Python WebObjects etc. The mail server may utilize communication protocols such as Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP Messaging Application Programming Interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange Post Office Protocol POP Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail client stored program component. The mail client may be a mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Mozilla Thunderbird etc.

The terms an embodiment embodiment embodiments the embodiment the embodiments one or more embodiments some embodiments and one embodiment mean one or more but not all embodiments of the invention s unless expressly specified otherwise.

The terms including comprising having and variations thereof mean including but not limited to unless expressly specified otherwise.

The enumerated listing of items does not imply that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive unless expressly specified otherwise. The terms a an and the mean one or more unless expressly specified otherwise.

A description of an embodiment with several components in communication with each other does not imply that all such components are required. On the contrary a variety of optional components are described to illustrate the wide variety of possible embodiments of the invention.

When a single device or article is described herein it will be readily apparent that more than one device article whether or not they cooperate may be used in place of a single device article. Similarly where more than one device or article is described herein whether or not they cooperate it will be readily apparent that a single device article may be used in place of the more than one device or article or a different number of devices articles may be used instead of the shown number of devices or programs. The functionality and or the features of a device may be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are not explicitly described as having such functionality features. Thus other embodiments of the invention need not include the device itself.

The illustrated operations of show certain events occurring in a certain order. In alternative embodiments certain operations may be performed in a different order modified or removed. Moreover steps may be added to the above described logic and still conform to the described embodiments. Further operations described herein may occur sequentially or certain operations may be processed in parallel. Yet further operations may be performed by a single processing unit or by distributed processing units.

The terms an embodiment embodiment embodiments the embodiment the embodiments one or more embodiments some embodiments and one embodiment mean one or more but not all embodiments of the invention s unless expressly specified otherwise.

The terms including comprising having and variations thereof mean including but not limited to unless expressly specified otherwise.

The enumerated listing of items does not imply that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive unless expressly specified otherwise. The terms a an and the mean one or more unless expressly specified otherwise.

A description of an embodiment with several components in communication with each other does not imply that all such components are required. On the contrary a variety of optional components are described to illustrate the wide variety of possible embodiments of the invention.

When a single device or article is described herein it will be readily apparent that more than one device article whether or not they cooperate may be used in place of a single device article. Similarly where more than one device or article is described herein whether or not they cooperate it will be readily apparent that a single device article may be used in place of the more than one device or article or a different number of devices articles may be used instead of the shown number of devices or programs. The functionality and or the features of a device may be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are not explicitly described as having such functionality features. Thus other embodiments of the invention need not include the device itself.

In an embodiment the present disclosure notifies a user an estimation of oil life thus indicating the user when to change the oil.

In an embodiment the present disclosure describes a method for continuously monitoring life of the oil. The monitored oil life may be notified to the user in real time for predefined automobile parameters.

In an embodiment the oil life indication device is portable and can be carried anywhere. Further the oil life indication device can have a built in imaging unit or associated with external imaging unit.

In an embodiment the accuracy of estimating the oil life increases as the method in the present disclosure employs machine learning algorithm.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based here on. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

