---

title: Dynamic geofence based on members within
abstract: One example embodiment relates to a method that comprises receiving, via a first portable electronic device, contextual information and a geolocation relating to a first user in a network-based system; receiving, via second portable electronic device, contextual information and a geolocation relating to a second user in the network-based system; identifying a common element in the received contextual information relating to the first user, and the received contextual information relating to the second user; in response to an identification of the common element, defining a boundary for a geofence based on the geolocation of the first or second users, and redefining the boundary of the geofence to exclude at least one member from the population, the exclusion based on an identified change in geolocation or contextual information relating to the at least one excluded member.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09591445&OS=09591445&RS=09591445
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 09591445
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160721
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 693 145 filed on Dec. 4 2012 which application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This application relates generally to data processing within a network based system operating over a distributed network and more specifically to systems and methods for implementing a dynamic geofence based on the geo locations identified attributes or desired populations of members within the dynamic geofence.

The ever increasing use of smart phones such as the iPhone from Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. with data connections and location determination capabilities is slowly changing the way people interact shop for products and services and even manage accounts. Smart phones can provide users with nearly instant information regarding a wide range of information such as product availability friend locations or pricing. For example applications such as RedLaser from eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. allow a smart phone user to scan a bar code and instantly check prices across online and local retail outlets. Smart phones also commonly include mechanisms such as global positioning system GPS receivers that allow the devices to constantly update location information. These technology changes are also driving changes in the way groups of people interact and exchange information.

In an example embodiment a system comprises at least one module executing on one or more computer processors to receive via a first portable electronic device contextual information and a geolocation relating to a first user in a network based system receive via second portable electronic device contextual information and a geolocation relating to a second user in the network based system identify a common element in the received contextual information relating to the first user and the received contextual information relating to the second user and in response to an identification of the common element defining a boundary for a geofence based on the geolocation of the first or second users.

In another example embodiment a machine readable medium includes instructions which when performed by a machine causes the machine to perform the operations of receiving via a first portable electronic device contextual information and a geolocation relating to a first user in a network based system receiving via second portable electronic device contextual information and a geolocation relating to a second user in the network based system identifying a common element in the received contextual information relating to the first user and the received contextual information relating to the second user and in response to an identification of the common element defining a boundary for a geofence based on the geolocation of the first or second users.

In an example embodiment a system comprises at least one mobile station deployable into a geographic region of a network based system the mobile station to facilitate definition of a boundary of a geofence surrounding a population of member s connected to the network based system located within the geographic region and at least one module executing on one or more computer processors to receive via the at least one mobile station contextual information relating to a plurality of member s of the population within the geographic region identify a common element in the received contextual information relating to at least two members of the population as a basis for defining a first boundary of the geofence to include the at least two members and define the first boundary of the geofence.

In another example embodiment a machine readable medium includes instructions which when performed by a machine causes the machine to perform the operations of receiving via one or more mobile stations contextual information relating to a plurality of member s of the population within a geographic region of a network based system the one or more mobile stations deployable into the geographic region to facilitate the definition of a boundary of a geofence surrounding a population of members connected to the network based system located within the geographic region identifying a common element in the received contextual information relating to at least two member s of the population as a basis for defining a first boundary of the geofence to include the at least two members and defining the first boundary of the geofence.

Geolocation For the purposes of this specification and the associated claims the term geolocation is used to refer to a geographic location such as a longitude latitude combination or a street address or a region defined by a ZIP code for example. The term geolocation or location is also used within this specification and claims in reference to a physical location for example associated with a retail outlet e.g. store a movie theater location or a dining house.

Real time For the purposes of this specification and the associated claims the term real time is used to refer to calculations or operations performed on the fly as events occur or input is received by the operable system. However the use of the term real time is not intended to preclude operations that cause some latency between input and response so long as the latency is an unintended consequence induced by the performance characteristics of the machine.

Contextual information For the purposes of this specification and the associated claims the term contextual information is used to refer to environmental data such as time and weather conditions among others. The contextual information generally refers to conditions describing an individual s e.g. user member of population etc. environment and or activities. For example contextual information can include a user s direction of movement current activity e.g. working driving playing golf shopping attending a pop concert lining up for show tickets etc. current weather conditions time of day and time of year e.g. season among other things. In certain examples contextual information about a user can also include past events purchase history or other historical data about the user. In other examples contextual information can include demographic information about an individual e.g. income level gender ethnicity and so forth .

Common element For the purposes of this specification and the associated claims a common element identified in contextual information relating to respective users means each set of user information includes that common element. The element is common to the user sets. Examples of common elements are given below.

Mobile station includes a human person a device a vehicle or a conveyance carrying or operating a portable electronic device in communication with a network based system.

Some example embodiments of systems and methods for implementing a dynamic geofence are described herein. The systems and methods may serve in some examples to improve the experience of operators of electronic marketplaces or marketing operations in offering goods or services to defined or targeted populations of users on a dynamic basis. In other examples implementation of a geofence may be akin to a person to person P2P situation in which for example three people or mobile stations fall within a certain distance from each other within a general region and are able to then create a dynamic geofence in which anyone inside the geofence can receive offers. As people leave or enter the region the geofence can be redefined accordingly. In some examples people with similar characteristics can receive offers. The characteristics would form part of contextual information relating to those people as defined above. Additional people who might fit the criteria can become an additional link in the geofence and affect its shape.

A definition of a common element is provided above. In some examples the common element may be specific in nature such as for example a specific performance of a Batman movie being shown at a particular time at a particular location or may relate to an annual income level greater than a defined number. In other words if for example two users connected to a network are both attending a Batman movie being shown at a particular time at a particular location then contextual information relating to those two members would contain the common element of that performance of the Batman movie. The contextual information and or geo location data may be received automatically from portable electronic devices operated by the users in our example two people but other numbers are possible including many thousands of people or more or may be received from portable electronic devices operated by other users observing the two users and manually transmitting contextual information and or a geolocation relating to the two users. In this example the other users would fall within the definition of mobile stations set out above. In some examples the common element may be more general in nature and relate for example to a general number of Bruce Springsteen concerts performed during a holiday season without being limited to particular times or locations. A common element in respective sets of contextual information relating to users making reservations for such concerts might generally be Bruce Springsteen .

A common element may in some examples have relative degrees of similarity. For example the common element may lie within a defined range of contextual information relating to users. In a shopping mall attended by users making purchases of goods a range of leather jacket colors might include for example red as being relatively similar to pink and thus a common element of red or pink hues would be present in a defined range of colors within a set of contextual information relating to users purchasing leather jackets. In another example Bruce Springsteen may be said to be similar to David Bowie in that both are performers of rock music even though the two are different persons. Thus a rock music performer might be an element common to sets of contextual information relating to attendees at Springsteen and Bowie rock concerts for example.

A common element may thus be defined or identified in many different ways. A common element may be defined or identified manually for example by a human person observing attendees lining up to attend a rock concert or the common element may be identified or defined electronically through the electronic comparison of contextual information for example.

In some situations the seller of a good or service might want to limit the numbers of on line offers made to potential customers within a region. A geofence can be implemented according to the present subject matter within the region to include a defined population of members each receiving an offer. The geofence can be defined dynamically to include a decreased geographic size or population of members so as to limit the exposure of the offer or in other situations increase the number of members receiving the offer. In some examples a seller or marketer may want very extensive exposure for the offer but only in situations where there is significant density of people the seller or marketer is trying to reach. The present disclosure allows the geofence to be created and grow as more people with desired target characteristics enter the geofence. In some forms the geofence may be said to exhibit viral characteristics.

In some examples a seller of goods may wish to extend a promotional offer to a limited population of persons attending a Bruce Springsteen concert at a particular location for example. Many of the attendees may be users connected to a network based system using portable electronic devices such as smartphones or iPhones for example. Contextual information and or a geolocation may be received via the connected devices on the network relating to one or more of the attendees. The received contextual information may include a common element such as attendance at the Springsteen concert at that particular location. Other common elements are possible. A boundary of a geofence may then be defined based on identification of the common element or a geolocation of one of the attendees. The contextual information may be received via a portable electronic device from an observer or a connected user that might not necessarily be attending the concert. The observer may place himself or herself in or adjacent the crowd of concert attendees and communicate with the network to transmit a geolocation or observed contextual information. In some examples an army of observers may be deployed within a geographic region for the purposes of transmitting geolocations or contextual information relating to members of a targeted population to be included within a geofence.

In some examples the geofence may be defined based on movement of the population or movement of the deployed members for example. In some examples common elements in the received contextual information may be identified and or monitored on a continuous or periodic basis to identify changes and the boundary of the geofence may be dynamically redefined accordingly.

Geofences can be used on a location aware mobile device to detect when a user of the mobile device enters a specific location such as a specific retail store. Geofences can be defined in terms of Global Positioning System GPS coordinates e.g. latitude and longitude combined with a radius measured in meters or feet for example. Alternatively geofences can also be defined according a series of GPS coordinates defining a bounding box. In yet other examples a geofence can be any geometric shape defined by a mathematical formula and anchored by a GPS coordinate.

Mobile devices such as an iPhone from Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. can monitor a number of geofences at a given time. Additionally applications running on a mobile device commonly can update monitored geofences when the application is opened by a user or at least active in memory on the mobile device . A concept of geofence paging has also been developed. Geofence paging can provide a benefit of limiting the amount of memory required within a mobile device for monitoring and maintaining geofences. In some examples a plurality of geofences may be referred to as a page of geofences with a large parent geofence describing the boundaries of the page and smaller child geofences located within the page. In an example the mobile device moves outside of the parent geofence the mobile device can load a new parent geofence and a plurality of child geofences associated with the parent geofence. In another example the various parent and child geofences can be stored on the mobile device and only loaded into active memory as they are needed based on the current location of the mobile device.

One or more of the users A N may wish to monitor or create a dynamic geofence. In an example the users can configure an account on the network based publication system . The account can be accessed by each user such as user A using mobile device A or client A if user A meets the specified access criteria or rules. In an example the access rules can include user identification and location identification rules e.g. user must be located within a location supported by the network based publication system . A user account on the network based publication system can allow the user to define specific geolocations or contextual information of interest for creating and monitoring a dynamic geofence. Based on geofence creation criteria received from user A geofences can be created based on contextual information received from and relating to other users B N.

In some examples the network based publication system can receive contextual information from the users A N and create a dynamic geofence accordingly. In some examples the network based publication system can monitor such received contextual information and redefine a boundary of the geofence based on changes in geo locations or contextual information relating to the users located within the geofence or a region defined by user A. In certain examples the network based publication system can be used by merchants for advertising and promotion based on contextual information received from a population of users located within a defined region. In some examples population members can be added to or removed from the geofence based on changes in geo locations or contextual information relating to the users located within the geofence or a region defined by user A.

In some examples the network based publication system can be used by merchants for location based advertising platforms where users such as users opt in to location based advertisements. For example Best Buy of Minneapolis Minn. may use the network based publication system to provide location based or context based advertising to users via mobile devices . Best Buy may in one example deploy a number of users mobile stations into a geographic region to observe defined user behavior and transmit to Best Buy or the network based publication system associated contextual information on which the boundaries of a dynamic geofence can be based. In one example a series of geofences may be generated each encompassing a manageable number of geographically related Best Buy store locations. Each of the Best Buy store locations would be covered by a much smaller child geofence that enables the network based publication system to serve location based or context based advertising relevant to the specific Best Buy store only with of the users is in geographic proximity to the Best Buy store based on the mobile device detecting a location within one of the monitored child geofences . In another example a location aware smart phone application running on the mobile device can trigger pre defined tasks based on detecting presence within a child geofence.

For example the connection may be Code Division Multiple Access CDMA connection a Global System for Mobile communications GSM connection or other type of cellular connection. Such connection may implement any of a variety of types of data transfer technology such as Single Carrier Radio Transmission Technology 1 RTT Evolution Data Optimized EVDO technology General Packet Radio Service GPRS technology Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE technology or other data transfer technology e.g. fourth generation wireless 4G networks . When such technology is employed the communication network may include a cellular network that has a plurality of cell sites of overlapping geographic coverage interconnected by cellular telephone exchanges. These cellular telephone exchanges may be coupled to a network backbone for example the public switched telephone network PSTN a packet switched data network or other types of networks .

In another example the connection may be Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi IEEE 802.11x type connection a Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX connection or another type of wireless data connection. In such an embodiment the communication network may include one or more wireless access points coupled to a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet or other packet switched data network.

In yet another example the connection may be a wired connection for example an Ethernet link and the communication network may be a LAN a WAN the Internet or other packet switched data network. Accordingly a variety of different configurations are expressly contemplated.

A plurality of servers may be coupled via interfaces to the communication network for example via wired or wireless interfaces. These servers may be configured to provide various types of services to the mobile device . For example one or more servers may execute contextual information service applications allowing receipt and transmission of contextual information between users mobile device and or the merchant server for the purpose of creating dynamic geofences. The execution of such contextual information services may be similar to the execution of location based services LBS as follows. In further examples one or more servers may execute LBS applications which interoperate with software executing on the mobile device to provide LBSs to a user. LBSs can use knowledge of the device s location and or the location of other devices to provide location specific information recommendations notifications interactive capabilities and or other functionality to a user. For example an LBS application can provide location data to a network based publication system which can then be used to provide access to a group account on the network based publication system . Knowledge of the device s location and or the location of other devices may be obtained through interoperation of the mobile device with a location determination application executing on one or more of the servers . Location information may also be provided by the mobile device without use of a location determination application such as application . In certain examples the mobile device may have some limited location determination capabilities that are augmented by the location determination application . In some examples the servers can also include publication application for providing location aware publication of data such as advertisements or offers. In certain examples location data can be provided to the publication application by the location determination application . In some examples the location data provided by the location determination application can include merchant information e.g. identification of a retail location . In certain examples the location determination application can receive signals via the network to further identify a location. For example a merchant may broadcast a specific IEEE 802.11 service set identifier SSID that can be interpreted by the location determination application to identify a particular retail location. In another example the merchant may broadcast an identification signal via radio frequency identification RFID near field communication NFC or a similar protocol that can be used by the location determination application . In addition to examples using these various mechanisms to identify a particular location these mechanisms e.g. SSIDs RFIDs NFC and so forth can be used as secondary authentication factors which are discussed in more detail below.

In certain examples the geofence paging application can leverage the LBS application or the location determination application or the contextual information definition and determination application to assist in determining which page of geofences to transmit to the mobile device .

Additional detail regarding providing and receiving location based services can be found in U.S. Pat. No. 7 848 765 titled Location Based Services granted to Phillips et al. and assigned to Where Inc. of Boston Mass. which is hereby incorporated by reference.

An example geo location concept discussed within U.S. Pat. No. 7 848 765 is a geofence. A geofence can be defined as a perimeter or boundary around a physical location or mobile object e.g. a user . A geofence can be as simple as a radius around a physical location defining a circular region around the location. However a geofence can be any geometric shape or an arbitrary boundary drawn on a map. A geofence can be used to determine a geographical area of interest for the calculation of demographics advertising or similar purposes. Geofences can be used in conjunction with the offer generation and delivery concepts discussed herein. For example a geofence can be created based on whether a user or mobile device associated with the user is within a geographic area of interest e.g. target location to providing access to a group account. In some examples a geofence can be created based on whether one or more users or mobile devices associated with the one or more users has or is observed to have characteristics corresponding to a defined common element in contextual information received from and relating to the one or more users. In some examples if the user is within a geofence established by provisioning of a group account the systems discussed herein can use that information to authorize the user to access the group account such as authorizing the user to process a payment against a group payment account.

An Application Programming Interface API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The application servers host one or more publication modules in certain examples these can also include commerce modules advertising modules and marketplace modules to name a few payment modules and geofence modules . The application servers are in turn shown to be coupled to one or more database servers that facilitate access to one or more databases . In some examples the application server can access the databases directly without the need for a database server .

The publication modules may provide a number of publication functions and services to users that access the networked system . The payment modules may likewise provide a number of payment services and functions to users. The payment modules may allow users to accumulate value e.g. in a commercial currency such as the U.S. dollar or a proprietary currency such as points in accounts and then later to redeem the accumulated value for products e.g. goods or services that are advertised or made available via the various publication modules within retail locations or within external online retail venues. The payment modules can also be configured to facilitate payment processing based on geofence detection and work in conjunction with the geofence modules . The geofence modules may provide generation of parent and child geofences among other things. The boundaries of geofences may be based on common elements identified in contextual information received via mobile devices and relating to users A N. While the publication modules payment modules and geofence modules are shown in to all form part of the networked system it will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments the payment modules may form part of a payment service that is separate and distinct from the networked system .

Further while the system shown in employs a client server architecture the present invention is of course not limited to such an architecture and could equally well find application in a distributed or peer to peer architecture system for example. The various publication modules payment modules and geofence modules could also be implemented as standalone systems or software programs which do not necessarily have networking capabilities.

The web client accesses the various publication modules payment modules and geofence modules via the web interface supported by the web server . Similarly the programmatic client accesses the various services and functions provided by the publication modules payment modules and geofence modules via the programmatic interface provided by the API server . The programmatic client may for example be a smart phone application e.g. the PAYPAL payments application that enables users to process payments directly from their smart phones leveraging user profile data and current location information provided by the smart phone or accessed over the network .

In an example the rules engine can be configured to manage and evaluate rules controlling contextual information and common elements identified or defined therein.

In an example the communication module can be configured to manage communications between the geofence modules and a user where the user is communicating via the mobile device or the client . The communication module can also be configured to manage communications between the geofence modules and a merchant such as payment recipient communicating via the payment recipient system .

In an example the generation module is configured to generate parent and child geofences according to information provided by modules such as the account module the location module and the rules engine .

In an example the account module is configured to provision setup and manage a user account on the networked system . In certain examples the account module can provision a user account according to configuration data received by the communication module . The account module can also work in conjunction with the rules engine in provisioning or decommissioning user accounts.

In an example the location module is configured to receive location data from a mobile device such as mobile device and determine from the location data a current physical location which may include reference to landmarks or other sites of interest. In some examples the location module can receive GPS type coordinates e.g. longitude and latitude which can be used to establish a current location associated with a mobile device and thus a user of the mobile device . Using the longitude and latitude coordinates the location module can determine if the current location is within the current parent geofence for example. In certain examples the location module can receive other location determining information from a mobile device such as a photograph or scan of data only readily available at a certain physical location generally referred to as secondary location authentication factor . In another example some merchants may broadcast specific wireless network signals that can be received by a mobile device such as mobile device . Once received the mobile device can include programming or circuitry to translate the signal into a specific location or the mobile device can simply retransmit the unique signal to the location module . In an example a merchant location can transmit a unique SSID which the location module can be programmed to interpret as identifying a specific merchant location. In another example the merchant may broadcast a unique SSID within all of its locations and the location module can be programmed to use a combination of the unique SSID and other location data e.g. GPS coordinates or cell tower locations to identify a specific location

Additional details regarding the functionality provided by the systems and modules described herein are detailed below in reference to .

In one example embodiment the processing logic resides at the geofence module illustrated in . Some portions of the methods may be performed by the various example modules discussed above with reference to . Each of these modules may comprise processing logic.

In some examples the common element is a predetermined common element. In some examples the common element is identified upon a comparison of the first and second contextual information. The method may further comprise monitoring an aspect of the common element included in the received first or second contextual information and adjusting the boundary of the geofence based on a change in the aspect. In some examples the method further comprises monitoring the geolocation of the first or second user and adjusting the boundary of the geofence based on a change in the geolocation.

In some examples the method further comprises identifying a population size of members connected to the network based system to be included within the defined geofence the population size based on an identification of the common element in received contextual information relating to at least one member of the population and the received contextual information relating to the first or second user. The first and second users may be included in the population. The boundary of the geofence may be defined in some examples based on a geolocation of the at least one member. In some examples the method further comprises monitoring the contextual information relating to the first or second user or the at least one member and redefining the boundary of the geofence based on a change in the contextual information or a desired population size to be included with the geofence.

The method may further comprise redefining the boundary of the geofence based on a change in the geolocation or the contextual information relating to at least one member of the population or to the first or second user. In some examples the method may further comprise redefining the boundary of the geofence to exclude at least one member from the population the exclusion based on an identified change in geolocation or contextual information relating to the at least one excluded member. In some examples the method may further comprise redefining the boundary of the geofence to include at least one new member in the population the inclusion based on a geolocation of the at least one new member or an identification of a common element in received contextual information relating to the at least one new member and the contextual information relating to at least one other member of the population.

The method may further comprise monitoring the contextual information or geolocation relating to the first or second user and dynamically redefining the boundaries of the geofence based on movement of the first or second user within a geographic region of the networked based system or an identified change in the contextual information relating to the first or second user. In some examples the method further comprise defining a boundary for the geofence based on a predetermined distance between the respective geolocations of the first and second user.

In some examples defining the first boundary of the geofence is further based on a geolocation of at least one of the member of the population. In some examples defining the first boundary of the geofence is further based on a geolocation of at least one mobile station. In some examples redefining the boundary of the geofence is based on a desired number of members of the population to be included with the geofence.

The method may further comprise defining a second boundary of the geofence based on a change in geolocation of at least one member of the population or of the one or more mobile stations. The method may further comprise defining a second boundary of the geofence based on a change in received contextual information relating to at least one member of the population. In some examples the method may further comprise redefining the boundary of the geofence to exclude at least one member from the population based on an identified change in geolocation or received contextual information of the at least one excluded member. In some examples the method further comprises redefining the boundary of the geofence to include at least one new member to the population the inclusion based on a geolocation of the at least one new member or an identification of a common element in received contextual information relating to the at least one new member and the contextual information relating to at least one other member of the population. In some examples the one or more deployed mobile stations are in communication with each other.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors with these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. APIs .

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product for example a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier for example in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus for example a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a FPGA or an ASIC .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that both hardware and software architectures require consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or used by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions or data structures. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures used by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a LAN a WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be used and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

All publications patents and patent documents referred to in this document are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety as though individually incorporated by reference. In the event of inconsistent usages between this document and those documents so incorporated by reference the usage in the incorporated reference s should be considered supplementary to that of this document for irreconcilable inconsistencies the usage in this document controls.

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one independent of any other instances or usages of at least one or one or more. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or such that A or B includes A but not B B but not A and A and B unless otherwise indicated. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. Also in the following claims the terms including and comprising are open ended that is a system device article or process that includes elements in addition to those listed after such a term in a claim are still deemed to fall within the scope of that claim. Moreover in the following claims the terms first second and third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

