---

title: Systems and methods for providing offers using a mobile device
abstract: A wireless device is enabled to provide offers. The wireless device receives card data for a financial account card and stores the card data in a memory associated with the wireless device. Responsive to using the card data in a transaction at a first merchant location, the wireless device receives transaction line-item data from a computing system associated with the first merchant location. The wireless device determines merchant information for a second merchant location and determines an offer associated with the second merchant location based on the line-item data and the merchant information for the second merchant. The wireless device presents the offer when the wireless device is near the second merchant location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09558504&OS=09558504&RS=09558504
owner: Capital One Financial Corporation
number: 09558504
owner_city: McLean
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160808
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 492 883 now allowed filed Sep. 22 2014. The disclosure of the above referenced application is expressly incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In a conventional credit card transaction a credit card holder presents a financial account card such as a credit card or debit card to a merchant. The merchant typically swipes a magnetic stripe on the card through a card reader that is built into or attached to a point of sale POS terminal. The magnetic stripe generally includes account information such as an account number of the card an identity of the card holder and an expiration date of the card. Once the merchant has swiped the card through the card reader the account information is transmitted to the POS terminal. Alternatively instead of the merchant swiping the card the credit card holder may personally swipe the card at a self service check out station or may insert the card into a card reader built into for example a gasoline pump. Once the card reader has read the card data the card data is transmitted over a secure network authenticated and ultimately used to authorize a transaction. In any of these kinds of transactions however the credit card must be physically read by a magnetic stripe reader in order to obtain the card data that is stored on the magnetic stripe.

As the prevalence of wireless devices continues to increase new methods of storing and transmitting credit card data have begun to emerge. One such example is to use RFID radio frequency identification tags for transmitting payment information. RFID tags are microchips some versions of which may store and encrypt data. Others may receive and transmit data from a processor. An RFID tag acts as a transponder and is capable of transmitting a radio frequency signal when the RFID tag receives a query radio signal from another device. Typically the other device is an RFID reader that sends a query signal requesting a nearby RFID tag to transmit data to the RFID reader. When the RFID tag receives the query signal the RFID tag may be powered into an on state. Alternatively the RFID tag may have its own independent power supply. In either case when an RFID tag receives a query radio signal the RFID tag may respond by transmitting data to the reader up to a distance of a several inches or feet away depending upon the power capabilities of the RFID tag.

In recent years RFID tags have been incorporated in wireless devices such as cellular phones. In addition to cellular phones other wireless devices such as PDAs for example are also being equipped with RFID tags. There are many possibilities regarding the kinds of information that an RFID tag may store and transmit. One type of information that an RFID tag may transmit is card data that provides payment information for a transaction. For example a transaction may involve providing information for an account such as a credit card account. In the example of a cellular phone the card data may be securely transmitted using encryption techniques to an RFID reader when the cellular phone is placed in close proximity to the RFID reader. Accordingly a cellular phone storing credit card data in an RFID tag or in a memory accessible by an RFID tag may be used as a payment device without requiring the actual credit card to be swiped by a magnetic card reader. Some wireless devices may also transmit information wirelessly using other technology such as Bluetooth Wi Fi near field communication NFC and cellular technologies such as CDMA TDMA LTE GSM for example.

Consistent with disclosed embodiments a method is provided for providing offers using a mobile device. The method includes receiving card data for a financial account card and storing the card data in a memory associated with a wireless device. Responsive to using the card data in a transaction at a first merchant location the method also includes receiving transaction line item data from a merchant computing system associated with the first merchant location. The method further includes determining merchant information for a second merchant location and determining an offer associated with the second merchant location based on the line item data and the merchant information for the second merchant. Then the method presents the offer when the wireless device is near the second merchant location.

Also consistent with disclosed embodiments a wireless device is described that provides offers. The wireless device receives card data for a financial account card and stores the card data in a memory associated with the wireless device. Responsive to using the card data in a transaction at a first merchant location the wireless device receives transaction line item data from a computing system associated with the first merchant location. The wireless device determines merchant information for a second merchant location and determines an offer associated with the second merchant location based on the line item data and the merchant information for the second merchant. The wireless device presents the offer when the wireless device is near the second merchant location.

Further a non transitory computer readable medium is disclosed that stores instructions that cause one or more processors to perform operations. The operations include receiving card data for a financial account card and storing the card data in a memory associated with a wireless device. Responsive to using the card data in a transaction at a first merchant location the operations also include receiving transaction line item data from a merchant computing system associated with the first merchant location. The operations further include determining merchant information for a second merchant location and determining an offer associated with the second merchant location based on the line item data and the merchant information for the second merchant. Then the offer is presented when the wireless device is near the second merchant location.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not intended as restrictive.

The use of wireless devices such as cellular phones provides a more interactive transaction experience than what is capable using a traditional financial account card with a magnetic stripe. As wireless devices include processors and memory and components for wireless communication with other computer systems they can be configured to communicate with one or more merchant systems during a transaction. For example during a transaction a wireless device can receive information about the transaction such as line item transaction data describing the goods or services that are part of the transaction or information about the merchant itself such as the merchant s Merchant Category Code MCC name address or other descriptive information.

The ability for the wireless device and the merchant computing system such as POS terminal to communicate provides opportunity to offer incentives to consumers based on past purchases. For example if the wireless device receives information about past transactions it can provide offers to the user of the wireless device to enter into transactions for complimentary goods or services. As transaction information can be obtained across many merchants there is increased opportunity to provide offers to a consumer based on their past purchase history. Further as merchant computing systems can provide information to wireless devices that identify the merchant or the category of goods or services the merchant provides the wireless device can identify one or more offers that match the merchant.

Accordingly the embodiments disclosed herein describe a system where past line item data from a transaction at a first merchant location can be used to provide an offer to a consumer that can be redeemed at a second merchant location. As used herein the term merchant location can refer to unique merchants which are owned and operated by separate business entities. For example a first merchant location can represent a particular establishment e.g. Home Depot and the second merchant location can represent a second establishment e.g. Lowe s . The term merchant location can also refer to different physical locations which are owned and operated by the same merchant or business entity. For example a first merchant location can represent Home Depot of Peachtree City Ga. and the second merchant location can represent Home Depot of Alpharetta Ga.

As a non limiting example one embodiment of the present disclosure is described in operation below. A consumer may have a wireless device such as a mobile phone that the consumer would like to use as an electronic wallet. The consumer can configure the wireless device as an electronic wallet by downloading one or more applications that allow the consumer to store card data for the consumer s financial account cards in a memory associated with the wireless device. Once the application has been downloaded the consumer can load the card data into the wireless device and can subsequently use the card data for purchases. When the consumer uses the card data at a first merchant location such as Home Depot a POS terminal at the first merchant location provides an electronic receipt to the wireless device. The wireless device can obtain line item data such as the stock keeping unit SKU numbers of the products purchased in the transaction. The wireless device may then receive an offer for a discount at Lowe s a second merchant location for a complementary product to the product that was purchased at Home Depot . The wireless device may compare the received offer with the line item data and determine that the offer applies to the user of the wireless device. The wireless device can generate an alert informing the user of the offer. The wireless device may present the alert when it receives the offer or it can present the alert when it determines the user is close to a Lowe s location to provide an incentive for the user to enter the Lowe s location and make a purchase.

Reference will now be made to exemplary embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

In some embodiments components of system can include one or more computing devices e.g. computer s server s etc. memory storing data and or software instructions e.g. database s memory devices etc. and other known computing components. The one or more computing devices can include one or more processors that can be configured to execute software instructions stored on one or more memory devices to perform one or more operations consistent with the disclosed embodiments. Components of system can be configured to communicate with one or more other components of system via network or directly with each other via direct communication means. For example wireless device can communicate with first merchant system and second merchant system via direct communication link which can include near field communication NFC RFID WiFi Bluetooth LiFi communication or any other wireless communication protocol known in the art.

Financial data system s can be a system or systems associated with financial service providers. Financial services providers can be a business entity that provides financial account cards to consumers such as a bank credit card issuer or other entity that generates provides manages and or maintains financial service accounts for one or more users. Financial data system s can generate maintain store provide and or process financial data associated with one or more financial account cards. Financial data can include information about financial accounts including but not limited to issuing financial institution card holder name card holder address account balance available credit existing fees card expiration dates and account transaction data e.g. transaction dates transaction amounts transaction types location of transaction etc. .

In some embodiments financial data system s can provide account information to requesting computing systems such as wireless device for example. Financial data system s can expose in some embodiments an application programming interface API that provides one or more methods for obtaining account information to requesting computing systems. For example a requesting computing system such as wireless device can provide financial data system s with an financial card account number via the API and financial data system s can provide the requesting computing system with the name address expiration date issuing bank or other information associated with the financial card account number. The account information can be provided as a binary data stream serialized data object XML object or in some other data form known to those with skill in the art.

Offers data system s can be one or more computing systems associated with one or more offer providers. An offer provider can be an entity that offers promotional items designed to entice a consumer to purchase an item from a merchant. Offers data system s can include in some embodiments one or more data stores or databases that link a product identifier such as stock keeping unit SKU number or inventory number of one merchant to complimentary product offer for the same or different merchant. For example offer data system s may include a database or datastore that links the SKU number of a tent purchased from Big Tent Store to an offer for 35 off a tarp from Big Tent Store an offer to purchase the same tent from Outdoor Depot 25 off or an offer to purchase the tarp from Outdoor Depot for 50 . In some embodiments offer data system s can include a database or datastore that links a merchant identifier such as a name address Merchant Category Code MCC or other merchant classifier to one or more offers. For example offer data system s may include a database or datastore that links the name Big Tent Store with an offer to purchase a sleeping bag for 50 or that links the MCC for Sporting Goods Stores e.g. 5941 to an offer to purchase a backpack from Outdoor Depot for 65. According to some embodiments offers data system s can include a database or datastore that links a location with an offer. For example offer data system s can link a GPS coordinate with an offer to receive a free drink with a meal purchase at a restaurant. The offers stored by offers data system s can be linked to more than one criterion. For example offer data system s may include a database or datastore that links a MCC and location to an offer to purchase an item from a merchant that has a store at that location and that matches the MCC. In some embodiments offers data system s can expose an API that provides one or more methods for providing offer information to a requesting computing system. For example a requesting computing system such as wireless device can provide offer data system s with any combination of a product identifier merchant identifier MCC or location via the API and offers data system s can provide the requesting computer system with one or more offers that satisfy the provided information.

According to some embodiments merchant location system s can be a computing system that provides merchant information based on a given location. In some embodiments merchant location system s can be capable of mapping geolocation data e.g. GPS data to merchants or MCCs. For example merchant location system can expose an API that provides one or more methods for providing merchant information to requesting computing systems. For example a requesting computing system such as wireless device may send a request via the API to merchant location system s including its current location and merchant location system s may provide the MCC for the closest merchant or the name address or other information concerning the closest merchant.

First merchant system may comprise one or more computing devices configured to perform one or more operations consistent with disclosed embodiments. For example first merchant system can be a computing device that is controlled and operated by a merchant that provides products e.g. goods and or services such as a restaurant e.g. Outback Steakhouse Burger King etc. retailer e.g. Amazon.com Target etc. grocery store service provider e.g. utility company insurance company financial service provider automobile repair services etc. non profit organization ACLU AARP etc. or any other type of entity that provides goods services and or information that consumers i.e. end users or other business entities can purchase consume use etc. For ease of discussion the present disclosure may describe exemplary embodiments in the context of purchase transactions involving goods from retail merchants but first merchant system is not limited to systems associated with retail merchants that conduct business in any particular industry or field. According to some embodiments first merchant system can be a mobile device e.g. tablet smart phone etc. a desktop computer a laptop a server or any other type of computing device. First merchant system can also include a television e reader or any other type of device capable of communicating with other components of system .

First merchant system can include a POS terminal which can be a dedicated POS terminal e.g. POS Terminal of below or a software application that can configure a general purpose computing device to accept financial account card payments. For example the payment application can configure the general purpose computing device to interface with an input device connected to the general purpose computing system. The input device can include a terminal or port that accepts data financial account card data from wireless device .

In some embodiments first merchant system can provide line item data describing the items that are included in a given transaction. For example if wireless device is used to engage in a transaction with first merchant system first merchant system may provide an electronic receipt to wireless device . The electronic receipt could be in a standard data format such as a text file PDF file image file or in another data format specific to packaging and transmitting line item transaction data.

In some embodiments system can also include second merchant system . Second merchant system can be one or more computing devices configured to perform one or more operations consistent with disclosed embodiments in a manner similar to that described above with respect to first merchant system . As used herein second merchant system can be a computing system associated with the entity that controls and operates first merchant system but a different location. For example first merchant system can be a system associated with a Big Supermarket merchant location in Roswell Ga. and second merchant system can be a system associated with a Big Supermarket merchant location in Atlanta Ga. In some embodiments second merchant system can be a computing system associated with a different entity than the entity that controls and operates first merchant computing system . For example first merchant system can be controlled and operated by Big Tent Store and second merchant system can be controlled and operated by Outdoor Depot.

System can also include in some embodiments wireless device . Wireless device can be any consumer device configured for wireless communications consistent with the embodiments described herein. For example wireless device can include a mobile phone personal digital assistant PDA tablet computing device laptop computing device smart card or any other computing device configured to communicate wirelessly with one or more computing systems. In some embodiments wireless device can be configured to communicate wirelessly using Bluetooth Wi Fi NFC and cellular technologies such as CDMA TDMA LTE GSM for example.

Network may be any type of network configured to provide communications between components of system . For example network can be any type of network including infrastructure that provides communications exchanges information and or facilitates the exchange of information such as the Internet a Local Area Network or other suitable connection s that enables the sending and receiving of information between the components of system . In other embodiments one or more components of system can communicate directly through one or more dedicated communication link s such as link .

In some embodiments processor may instruct magnetic stripe reader to read card data from a card as it is inserted into wireless device . Alternatively a smart card reader included in wireless device may read data from the card. Further card data that has been read from a card may be stored in memory or may be written by RFID writer to RFID chip . Transmitter may be used in addition to RFID chip to transmit card data and or other data from wireless device . For example transmitter may be used to boost the signal strength of radio frequency signals sent from wireless device .

In some embodiments card data from a card can be input to wireless device using input device . For example input device can include a keypad or touchscreen configured to receive input from a user and processor may interpret data received by the input device as card data which is stored in memory or the RFID chip. Wireless device may also capture card data from a card using image capture device which can include a camera optical sensor infrared sensor or other sensor configured to capture an image. Once an image of a card is captured by image capture device processor can store the card data in memory or write it to RFID Chip using RFID writer .

In some embodiments wireless device can be used to purchase goods or services in a wireless transaction. During a transaction a user may make a secured payment with wireless device . In such a transaction card data stored on wireless device may be transmitted by for example RFID chip to a nearby RFID reader associated with a merchant such as first merchant system or second merchant system . As wireless device may be capable of storing card data for one or more financial account cards wireless device can also act as an electronic wallet.

A user of wireless device may also store data for multiple cards by providing a first card to wireless device so that the device may store the card data from the first card in memory . The user may then provide a second card to wireless device which is also stored in memory . After a user has stored card data for more than one card in wireless device the user may select a card from a menu screen shown on a display of wireless device such as the menu screen shown in and described in further detail below. In some embodiments wireless device may suggest a stored card or default the selection of the card on displayed menu based on user preferences data describing the transaction for which the card will be used or based on an offer presented by wireless device consistent with embodiment disclosed herein.

Wireless device may also include security features that authorize a transaction. For example a security validation may be required for transactions to prevent unauthorized use of card data stored in memory . Further card data may be encrypted using encryption techniques so that transmitted card data cannot be intercepted in an accessible form.

Process begins when wireless device receives card data for one or more financial account cards Step . In some embodiments wireless device receives the card data via a card reader that is part of wireless device or attached as a peripheral to wireless device consistent with present embodiments. According to some embodiments wireless device receives the card data via one of its associated input output devices such as a touchscreen keypad or camera. For example a user of wireless device may manually enter an account number associated with the financial card or the user may take a picture of the card with a camera included in or in communication with wireless device and OCR capable software installed on wireless device may extract the card data. In some embodiments wireless device may communicate with one or more remote computer systems to obtain additional card data that is not stored directly on a financial account card. For example wireless device may communicate with one or more remote computer systems to obtain the identity of the financial institution that issued the financial account card branding associated with the card the name and address of the account holder of financial account card etc.

In some embodiments wireless device may receive the card data through a dedicated card reader attached to or part of wireless device as shown in . shows a back view of an embodiment of wireless device including a card slot for inserting a card and an eject button . According to the example shown in wireless device is preferably a mobile phone. However wireless device may be a PDA or other handheld device such as a Blackberry. Although wireless device shows card slot on the back of the device card slot may be incorporated into any appropriate location of wireless device . Further card slot may be oriented in any appropriate direction for receiving card . In exemplary embodiments card slot may include a reader not shown for reading card data on card . Further in some embodiments wireless device may not include card slot and instead can receive card data via input devices such as a touchscreen keypad or camera. For example a user of wireless device may manually enter an account number associated with the financial card or the user may take a picture of the card with wireless device s camera and OCR capable software installed on wireless device may extract the card data.

Card may be a financial account card such as a credit card a debit card a smart card an ATM card or any other card associated with a financial account and that may be used to make purchase transactions. Card includes for example account information such as information identifying the card holder an account number and expiration date. Further as shown in according to the back view of card card includes magnetic stripe . In the case of a smart card card will include a smart card chip not shown which may be read by a smart card reader included in wireless device in addition to or instead of a reader to read magnetic stripe .

According to some embodiments once card is inserted into wireless device a mechanism not shown may hold card in place such that it does not fall out of wireless device . Furthermore wireless device may include eject button for removing card from wireless device . For example when a user desires to remove card from wireless device the user may press eject button which ejects card through card slot .

Returning to once wireless device receives the card data it can store the card data in memory Step associated with wireless device . In some embodiments wireless device may store the card data in a local memory e.g. memory or program a RFID chip of wireless device e.g. e.g. RFID Chip . According to some embodiments wireless device can store the card data in remote memory accessible by wireless device . For example the card data can be stored via a cloud computing service to a cloud based storage device.

Once the card data is stored a user of wireless device may use the card data in a transaction at a first merchant location Step . According to some embodiments wireless device can be configured to communicate with a computing system of a merchant e.g. first merchant system second merchant system . The computing system of the merchant may include a POS terminal. shows one embodiment of wireless device communicating with POS terminal which may in some embodiments be part of a computing system of a merchant e.g. first merchant system second merchant system . shows an exemplary diagram of an interaction between wireless device an RFID transceiver and a magnetic stripe reader according to some embodiments. RFID transceiver and magnetic stripe reader may be connected to POS terminal or be part of POS terminal . POS terminal receives data from RFID transceiver and or magnetic stripe reader to process a transaction. A merchant may use POS terminal to input data describing a purchase and to verify payment information obtained by RFID transceiver and or magnetic stripe reader .

Once POS terminal has received payment information such as account information for a credit card POS terminal may transmit the payment information in a secure format over a network not shown in a process that is consistent with a typical purchase transaction such as that involving a credit card. In such a credit card transaction for example once an external server not shown verifies and approves the credit card transaction authorization for the transaction may be sent over the network to POS terminal .

As shown in wireless device may also transmit card data by radio frequency to RFID reader . In such a situation a user will hold wireless device near RFID transceiver at for example the direction of the merchant or after being prompted by a message shown on a display not shown of RFID transceiver requesting the user to provide payment information. Although shows POS terminal as including RFID transceiver to receive card data from wireless device via wireless communication in other embodiments POS terminal can include additional or alternative readers configured to receive wireless data. For example POS terminal can include a Bluetooth WiFi NFC RF or other transceiver capable of receiving wireless communications.

In some embodiments wireless device may have stored in its associated memory more than one financial account card requiring a selection of a card for use in a transaction. Accordingly in some embodiments wireless device may generate a user interface on its display to facilitate the selection of stored card data for the transaction. shows an exemplary display of wireless device which may include a menu of financial cards for which wireless device has stored card data. As shown in menu may include a list of three cards designated as card card and card . Further card is shown as having been selected by selection box . Selection box may be for example a highlighted border surrounding a selected item shown on display . A user may make a selection from menu by using input keys not shown of wireless device or by touching display . Furthermore as shown in the exemplary embodiment of card may also be represented by image which shows a graphical image of a card. Alternatively card may be selected for use in making a purchase by selecting image using input keys or by touching display . Image may be an image of a credit card a logo text or any graphical image that the user has associated with card .

For example a user may access menu on wireless device . As shown in menu displays one or more cards that have card data stored in wireless device . The user may select a card such as card by using input keys for example from menu . Alternatively the user may select card by selecting image . Thereafter the user may use wireless device to make a purchase with card . A user may therefore make selections from menu to select a particular card for a transaction.

In some embodiments security features such as authorization may be used to determine whether a transaction may proceed with a selected card. For example in some embodiments a security code may be required before a selected card may be used to make a transaction. When a user selects the card for making a purchase a prompt may require the user to enter a security code to authorize use of the card data. Once entered wireless device may determine whether the correct security code has been entered by comparing the entered code with a code stored in memory of wireless device . For example the security code may be stored in an encrypted form in wireless device . After validating the security code wireless device authorizes the use of the card data and wireless device transmits the card data from wireless device to the POS terminal. For example card data may be transmitted from wireless device to a nearby RFID reader. The RFID reader may be included in and or connected to a POS terminal as shown in . Further the security code may be entered by the user via input keys on wireless device . Alternatively the security code may be entered by the user at the POS terminal and transmitted over a network to an external server for validation. The security code may be a personal identification number PIN . In other embodiments instead of a security code authorization may be provided by a fingerprint voice print or retinal scan of the user. Also in any of the above embodiments the security code may be received by wireless device or by a POS terminal.

In some embodiments wireless device may select or recommend card data for a transaction. shows an exemplary flow diagram of a process for selecting a card for a transaction using wireless device . In step wireless device may receive from a POS terminal associated with a merchant e.g. POS terminal data reflecting a transaction. The data reflecting the transaction can include the MCC of the merchant that operates the POS terminal the line item data for goods or services that are part of the transaction or data indicating a financial institution affiliated with the merchant. Using the received data reflecting the transaction wireless device may automatically select a card to provide the payment for the purchase. Step . For example the selection may be based on rewards benefit information associated with the card data or a user preference stored with the card data indicating that the card data is to be used for certain purchases. For example a user might provide a preference to wireless device that a card data from a first financial card by used with gas purchases and card data from a second financial card be used with grocery purchases. Using the preferences and the received data reflecting the transaction wireless data may automatically select or recommend the appropriate card data. Next wireless device transmits via radio frequency card data for the selected card to POS terminal . Step . 

Returning to during or after the transaction wireless device may receive line item data for the first merchant location Step . The line item data may be received by wireless device as an electronic receipt for example. The line item data can include a text description of the goods or services purchased during the transaction a SKU number for the goods or services the price of the goods or services. The line item data can also include in some embodiments an associated MCC that is typical of the good or service purchased. For example if the line item data includes a purchase of a laptop the line item data can include the MCC for electronic stores e.g. 5732 . In some embodiments the line item data may be associated with the MCC of the merchant at which the transaction associated with the line item data occurred. For example if a user used wireless device to purchase an item from an auto parts store all the goods purchased in the transaction may be associated with MCC 5533 Automotive Parts and Accessories Stores .

In some embodiments wireless device will determine merchant information for a second merchant location Step . The merchant information can include for example a MCC for the second merchant location or it could be an identifier for the second merchant location such as for example the address of the second merchant location a text description of the second merchant location or GPS coordinates for the second merchant location. According to some embodiments the merchant information for the second location can be used by wireless device to determine one or more offers Step to present to a user of wireless device and the merchant information may depend on the information that a remote computer system such as offers data system would need to provide one or more offers to wireless device for later presentation to a user. In some embodiments offers data system may expose an API that provides one or more offers when given a MCC or offers data system may expose an API that provides one or more offers when it receives a geographic location. For example offers data system may provide an offer for a discount off of a printer when provided with a MCC corresponding to an electronics retailer or offers data system may provide an offer for a free drink at a restaurant when provided with the address or GPS coordinates of the restaurant.

In some embodiments merchants may broadcast merchant information using one or more computing systems at their merchant location. For example a merchant s POS may be configured to communicate with wireless devices using RFID WiFi Bluetooth LiFi or any other wireless communication protocol known in the art and the POS may continuously broadcast a message to wireless devices configured to receive the message to communicate the merchant information to wireless device . In some embodiments the merchant information includes a MCC that classifies the type of merchant. According to some embodiments wireless device may include a lookup table that maps MCCs to merchant types. For example wireless device may include a lookup table that links the MCC 5411 with Grocery Stores Supermarkets and when wireless device receives a 5411 as a MCC for a particular transaction wireless device can use the lookup table to determine that the transaction is taking place at a grocery store or supermarket.

In some embodiments wireless device may determine information for a second merchant location based on its current location Step . For example when wireless device is at the second merchant location it may use its current location e.g. GPS coordinates . According to some aspects wireless device uses location services to determine the merchant information for the second merchant location. For example wireless device may communicate with a computer system such as merchant location system s which is capable of mapping geolocation data e.g. GPS data to merchants or MCCs. When determining second merchant information wireless device may send a request including the wireless device s current location to one or more remote computer systems. In response to the request wireless device may receive a MCC and or the name for the closest merchant corresponding to the location of wireless device . Wireless device may use a lookup table mapping the received MCC to a merchant type which wireless device can later use to determine offers e.g. at Step . In some embodiments wireless device may receive in response to the request the merchant type directly from the computer system capable of mapping geolocation data and in such embodiments may not use a lookup table.

Once wireless device receives line item data for a first merchant location e.g. at Step and determines merchant information for a second merchant location e.g. at Step wireless device can determine one or more offers to present to the user Step . Wireless device may determine the offers based on the line item data the merchant information the wireless device s current location time of day or a combination of the line item data the merchant information time of day and the wireless device s current location among other parameters. In some embodiments wireless device communicates the line item data the merchant information and or the wireless device s current location to a remote computer system that provides offers e.g. offer data system s and receives data corresponding to one or more offers to present to the user of wireless device . For example wireless device may have line item data indicating that the user of wireless device recently purchased a suit and wireless device may have also received merchant information for a second merchant location that sells shoes. Wireless device can then communicate the line item data and the merchant information for the second location to the offer data system s and in response wireless device may receive an offer to buy shoes at a discount.

In some embodiments the offers received by wireless device or as described below determined by wireless device may be for products that are complementary to products described in the line item data. Complementary products can include products of a different type that are typically purchased with the products described in the line item data such as for example a suit and a pair of shoes as described above. The offers can also be determined based on dayparting where a product offers are presented to a user of wireless device based on the time of day. For example if the line item data indicates that the transaction occurred in the evening the offer may include a discount for dinner at a restaurant near the current location of wireless device or the location of the purchase. In some embodiments the offer may be based on dayparting and the type of product purchased. For example a user may purchase a cup of coffee at a coffee shop in the morning after which the wireless device can receive or determine as described below an offer for a discount to purchase doughnuts at a near by doughnut shop based on the purchase of coffee product type and the time of day morning . The complementary product may vary depending on the time of day for the same purchased product. For example if the user purchased the coffee at night the offer might be for a piece of cake at a bakery as opposed to a doughnut.

In some embodiments wireless device may determine offers based on a list of available offers that a remote computer system such as offers data system s provides to it. For example offers data system s may provide data representing offers to wireless device on a periodic basis such as hourly daily or weekly. When wireless device receives the offers it may reference stored line item data from past transactions to determine if any of the offers apply. From the list of applicable offers wireless device may then determine if any received merchant information for a second location applies and then present that offer on wireless device when wireless device is at or near the second merchant location. For example a user may use wireless device to purchase a tennis racket from a Sports Stuff. During the purchase transaction wireless device receives line item data e.g. the tennis racket s SKU and or the MCC for Sporting Goods Stores from the computing system of the merchant where the tennis racket was purchased. After purchasing the tennis racket offer data system s may provide a list of offers including an offer for 25 off a television at Big Electronics Store a buy one get one free offer for Jitterbug Coffee Shop and an offer for 50 off a gross of tennis balls from Sports Stuff. The list of offers may be coded with MCC s or associated SKUs for complimentary goods or services. Once wireless device receives the list of offers it may compare the offers to its stored line item data and determine a match for the user for the offer to purchase the tennis balls based on the past purchase of the tennis racket.

According to some embodiments wireless device may present offers as soon as it determines the offers. For example once wireless device receives an offer applicable to the stored line item data and merchant information it may generate an alert for the user of wireless device . In some embodiments it may store the offer in a location queue and when wireless device is close to a second merchant location where the user can redeem the offer it may then generate an alert notifying the user of the offer. In some embodiments wireless device may generate an initial alert for the user when it receives or determines the offer and a subsequent reminder alert when the user is close to the merchant location where the user can redeem the offer. The foregoing descriptions have been presented for purposes of illustration and description. They are not exhaustive and do not limit the present embodiments to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practicing of embodiments. For example the described implementation includes software but other embodiments may be implemented as a combination of hardware and software or in hardware alone.

Additionally although aspects of the present embodiments are described as being stored in memory one skilled in the art will appreciate that these aspects can also be stored on other types of computer readable media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks or CD ROM a carrier wave from the Internet or other propagation medium or other forms of RAM or ROM.

Other embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the embodiments disclosed herein. The specification and examples should be considered as exemplary only.

