---

title: Social media platform for creating and sharing videos
abstract: Systems, media, methods, and platforms providing video processing for generating and sharing lip-sync videos comprising: presenting an interface allowing a user to select audio content; presenting an interface allowing a user to capture video content; presenting an interface allowing a user to synchronize the audio content with the video content; synthesizing the video content and the audio content to generate a new lip-sync video; automatically sharing the lip-sync video to a social media platform; and providing a lip-sync video feed within a social network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09583142&OS=09583142&RS=09583142
owner: MUSICALLY INC.
number: 09583142
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160711
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 62 190 976 filed Jul. 10 2015 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Video websites and services have developed from the age of YouTube to the instant age of self centric video services like Instagram and Vine. However there exists a long felt need to allow users to more freely express themselves and to have better sense of a community.

Existing video services each have various shortcomings. For example some do not provide a social network and require the user to post their content on third party social media platforms. Others fail to provide lip sync video creation capabilities. All fail to provide an ideal combination of free expression in creating lip sync videos and a sense of community.

The application described herein is a service and social media platform for creating and sharing short videos it is very much a social app with the ability to follow like and comment on user s video creations which are called musicals. Users are provided with the ability to record multiple clips that are spliced together to transition from one scene to the next. A user is provided with interfaces allowing them to record or import video content as well as interfaces that allow them edit the video and select and synchronize audio. Alternatively the user is provided with interfaces allowing them to select audio and then add video content. The subject matter herein includes a social network including features allowing influencers to issue video challenges and respond to comments via video and allowing users to create duets with other video authors.

The application described herein is configured to allow a user to automatically share lip sync videos to a social media platform. It presents an interface allowing users to synchronize audio content with video content by freely selecting an audio start point with regard to the video. The application described herein also provides tools to allow users to configure the speed of the video add filters and elect to play the video backwards. Moreover the application described herein delivers an instant video experience that lets users take part in challenges and contests and follow other users musicians and celebrities as a way to get started. Users optionally use these features to create instant music videos that combine a variety of effects and lip sync voice over. The application described herein further provides an outlet for creative expression and communication by offering tools to create duet videos Q A videos challenges and contests as well as live streaming videos.

In one aspect disclosed herein are computer implemented systems comprising a digital processing device comprising at least one processor an operating system configured to perform executable instructions a memory and a computer program including instructions executable by the digital processing device to create a video processing application for generating and sharing lip sync videos comprising a software module presenting an interface allowing a user to select audio content a software module presenting an interface allowing a user to capture video content a software module presenting an interface allowing a user to synchronize the audio content with the video content a software module synthesizing the video content and the audio content to generate a new lip sync video a software module automatically sharing the lip sync video to a social media platform and a software module providing a lip sync video feed the feed comprising a plurality of lip sync videos the feed identifying the author of each lip sync video the feed comprising tools to allow the user to comment on each lip sync video and mark each lip sync video as a favorite. In some embodiments each lip sync video is less than 20 seconds in length less than 15 seconds in length or less than 10 seconds in length. In some embodiments the interface allowing a user to select audio content allows the user to select audio content from a streaming audio track a pre existing audio file archived on the digital processing device and a pre existing lip sync video. In some embodiments the interface allowing a user to capture video content allows the user to capture video content from a live video stream a video captured in real time using the digital processing device or a pre existing video file archived on the digital processing device. In some embodiments the interface allowing a user to select audio content comprises tools allowing the user to edit the audio content. In further embodiments the editing comprises modification of the speed of the audio content modification of one or both of the end points of the audio content and modification of the volume of the audio content. In still further embodiments the editing comprises mixing the audio content with one or more distinct audio contents. In some embodiments the interface allowing a user to capture video content comprises tools allowing the user to edit the video content. In further embodiments the editing comprises modification of the speed of the video content and application of one or more color filters to the video content. In some embodiments the feed is a featured content feed a followed user feed or a location based feed. In some embodiments the user selects audio prior to capturing video. In other embodiments the user captures video prior to selecting audio. In some embodiments the software module presenting an interface allowing a user to synchronize the audio content with the video content comprises tools allowing the user to select a start point. In further embodiments the start point is selected by the user via touchscreen wipe gesture. In some embodiments the software module synthesizing the video content and the audio content generates the lip sync video on the digital processing device using the resources of the at least one processor and the memory. In some embodiments the application further comprises a software module presenting an interface allowing a user to create a duet video the interface comprising tools allowing the user to select a pre existing lip sync video wherein the pre existing lip sync video is integrated with captured video to create a new duet video. In some embodiments the application further comprises a software module presenting an interface allowing a user to capture video content in response to a user comment. In some embodiments the new lip sync video is a music video a dance video a comedy video a sports video a fashion video a make up video or a work out video. In some embodiments each lip sync video is full screen. In further embodiments the feed is browsed by the user via touchscreen wipe gesture. In some embodiments the application further comprises a software module presenting an interface allowing a user to create a challenge for other users to generate and upload lip sync videos for one or more selected audio contents within a given time. In further embodiments one or more winners are chosen for the best lip sync videos and prizes are rewarded to the one or more winners. In some embodiments the application further comprises a software module presenting an interface allowing a user to participate in challenges of generating lip sync videos for a selected audio content.

In another aspect disclosed herein are non transitory computer readable storage media encoded with a computer program including instructions executable by a processor to create a video processing application for generating and sharing lip sync videos comprising a software module presenting an interface allowing a user to select audio content a software module presenting an interface allowing a user to capture video content a software module presenting an interface allowing a user to synchronize the audio content with the video content a software module synthesizing the video content and the audio content to generate a new lip sync video a software module automatically sharing the lip sync video to a social media platform and a software module providing a lip sync video feed the feed comprising a plurality of lip sync videos the feed identifying the author of each lip sync video the feed comprising tools to allow the user to comment on each lip sync video and mark each lip sync video as a favorite. In some embodiments each lip sync video is less than 20 seconds in length less than 15 seconds in length or less than 10 seconds in length. In some embodiments the interface allowing a user to select audio content allows the user to select audio content from a streaming audio track a pre existing audio file archived on the digital processing device and a pre existing lip sync video. In some embodiments the interface allowing a user to capture video content allows the user to capture video content from a live video stream a video captured in real time using the digital processing device or a pre existing video file archived on the digital processing device. In some embodiments the interface allowing a user to select audio content comprises tools allowing the user to edit the audio content. In further embodiments the editing comprises modification of the speed of the audio content modification of one or both of the end points of the audio content and modification of the volume of the audio content. In still further embodiments the editing comprises mixing the audio content with one or more distinct audio contents. In some embodiments the interface allowing a user to capture video content comprises tools allowing the user to edit the video content. In further embodiments the editing comprises modification of the speed of the video content and application of one or more color filters to the video content. In some embodiments the feed is a featured content feed a followed user feed or a location based feed. In some embodiments the user selects audio prior to capturing video. In other embodiments the user captures video prior to selecting audio. In some embodiments the software module presenting an interface allowing a user to synchronize the audio content with the video content comprises tools allowing the user to select a start point. In further embodiments the start point is selected by the user via touchscreen wipe gesture. In some embodiments the software module synthesizing the video content and the audio content generates the lip sync video on the digital processing device using the resources of the at least one processor and the memory. In some embodiments the application further comprises a software module presenting an interface allowing a user to create a duet video the interface comprising tools allowing the user to select a pre existing lip sync video wherein the pre existing lip sync video is integrated with captured video to create a new duet video. In some embodiments the application further comprises a software module presenting an interface allowing a user to capture video content in response to a user comment. In some embodiments the new lip sync video is a music video a dance video a comedy video a sports video a fashion video a make up video or a work out video. In some embodiments each lip sync video is full screen. In further embodiments the feed is browsed by the user via touchscreen wipe gesture. In some embodiments the application further comprises a software module presenting an interface allowing a user to create a challenge for other users to generate and upload lip sync videos for one or more selected audio contents within a given time. In further embodiments one or more winners are chosen for the best lip sync videos and prizes are rewarded to the one or more winners. In some embodiments the application further comprises a software module presenting an interface allowing a user to participate in challenges of generating lip sync videos for a selected audio content.

In another aspect disclosed herein are computer implemented methods of a video processing to generate and share lip sync videos comprising presenting by a computer an interface allowing a user to select audio content presenting by the computer an interface allowing a user to capture video content presenting by the computer an interface allowing a user to synchronize the audio content with the video content synthesizing by the computer the video content and the audio content to generate a new lip sync video automatically sharing by the computer the lip sync video to a social media platform and providing by the computer a lip sync video feed the feed comprising a plurality of lip sync videos the feed identifying the author of each lip sync video the feed comprising tools to allow the user to comment on each lip sync video and mark each lip sync video as a favorite. In some embodiments each lip sync video is less than 20 seconds in length less than 15 seconds in length or less than 10 seconds in length. In some embodiments the interface allowing a user to select audio content allows the user to select audio content from a streaming audio track a pre existing audio file archived on the digital processing device and a pre existing lip sync video. In some embodiments the interface allowing a user to capture video content allows the user to capture video content from a live video stream a video captured in real time using the digital processing device or a pre existing video file archived on the digital processing device. In some embodiments the interface allowing a user to select audio content comprises tools allowing the user to edit the audio content. In further embodiments the editing comprises modification of the speed of the audio content modification of one or both of the end points of the audio content and modification of the volume of the audio content. In still further embodiments the editing comprises mixing the audio content with one or more distinct audio contents. In some embodiments the interface allowing a user to capture video content comprises tools allowing the user to edit the video content. In further embodiments the editing comprises modification of the speed of the video content and application of one or more color filters to the video content. In some embodiments the feed is a featured content feed a followed user feed or a location based feed. In some embodiments the user selects audio prior to capturing video. In other embodiments the user captures video prior to selecting audio. In some embodiments the interface allowing a user to synchronize the audio content with the video content comprises tools allowing the user to select a start point. In further embodiments the start point is selected by the user via touchscreen wipe gesture. In some embodiments the synthesizing the video content and the audio content generates the lip sync video is performed on the computer using a processor and a memory of the computer. In some embodiments the method further comprises presenting by the computer an interface allowing a user to create a duet video the interface comprising tools allowing the user to select a pre existing lip sync video wherein the pre existing lip sync video is integrated with captured video to create a new duet video. In some embodiments the method further comprises presenting by the computer an interface allowing a user to capture video content in response to a user comment. In some embodiments the new lip sync video is a music video a dance video a comedy video a sports video a fashion video a make up video or a work out video. In some embodiments each lip sync video is full screen. In further embodiments the feed is browsed by the user via touchscreen wipe gesture. In some embodiments the method further comprises presenting by the computer an interface allowing a user to create a challenge for other users to generate and upload lip sync videos for one or more selected audio contents within a given time. In further embodiments one or more winners are chosen for the best lip sync videos and prizes are rewarded to the one or more winners. In some embodiments the method further comprises by the computer presenting an interface allowing a user to participate in challenges of generating lip sync videos for a selected audio content.

Existing video services fail to provide an ideal combination of free expression in creating lip sync videos and a sense of community. Described herein are video services that allow users to create short videos such as 15 seconds that are long enough to draw a laugh and tell a story but not too long that teens get bored and move onto the next one. The combination of music videos and social networking generates a unique tool for users to experience free expression while immersing in their interested social community. Much more than just another lip synching video app the instant application builds the next social network to revolve around videos.

Described herein in certain embodiments are computer implemented systems comprising a digital processing device comprising at least one processor an operating system configured to perform executable instructions a memory and a computer program including instructions executable by the digital processing device to create a video processing application for generating and sharing lip sync videos comprising a software module presenting an interface allowing a user to select audio content a software module presenting an interface allowing a user to capture video content a software module presenting an interface allowing a user to synchronize the audio content with the video content a software module synthesizing the video content and the audio content to generate a new lip sync video a software module automatically sharing the lip sync video to a social media platform and a software module providing a lip sync video feed the feed comprising a plurality of lip sync videos the feed identifying the author of each lip sync video the feed comprising tools to allow the user to comment on each lip sync video and mark each lip sync video as a favorite.

Also described herein in certain embodiments are non transitory computer readable storage media encoded with a computer program including instructions executable by a processor to create a video processing application for generating and sharing lip sync videos comprising a software module presenting an interface allowing a user to select audio content a software module presenting an interface allowing a user to capture video content a software module presenting an interface allowing a user to synchronize the audio content with the video content a software module synthesizing the video content and the audio content to generate a new lip sync video a software module automatically sharing the lip sync video to a social media platform and a software module providing a lip sync video feed the feed comprising a plurality of lip sync videos the feed identifying the author of each lip sync video the feed comprising tools to allow the user to comment on each lip sync video and mark each lip sync video as a favorite.

Also described herein in certain embodiments are computer implemented methods of a video processing to generate and share lip sync videos comprising presenting by a computer an interface allowing a user to select audio content presenting by the computer an interface allowing a user to capture video content presenting by the computer an interface allowing a user to synchronize the audio content with the video content synthesizing by the computer the video content and the audio content to generate a new lip sync video automatically sharing by the computer the lip sync video to a social media platform and providing by the computer a lip sync video feed the feed comprising a plurality of lip sync videos the feed identifying the author of each lip sync video the feed comprising tools to allow the user to comment on each lip sync video and mark each lip sync video as a favorite.

Unless otherwise defined all technical terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. As used in this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Any reference to or herein is intended to encompass and or unless otherwise stated.

In some embodiments the systems media and methods described herein include user profiles or use of the same. In some embodiments a software module is configured to allow a user to create update and manage a user profile. In some embodiments a software module is configured to allow a user to log in with Facebook Twitter email or other social media accounts. In some embodiments a software module is configured to view and edit his profile information. In some embodiments a user s followings fans of his and likes for his videos are displayed in this profile page. In some embodiments a user profile comprises information regarding username his name Instagram ID birth year and short bio among other things.

Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to allow a user to view edit delete and interact with his social networking followers. In some embodiments a user is allowed to change his notification settings. Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to allow a user to view his own information including profile information and social networking connection information. Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to allow a user to view and edit his profiles. Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to allow a user to view and edit his settings.

In some embodiments a user is allowed to manage his friends within the social media networking. Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to allow a user to view search invite edit and delete friends. In some embodiments a user is allowed to review other users profile pages. Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to allow a user to view another user s information including profile information social networking connection information and video contents. From a second user s page a first user is allowed to follow the second user and interact with the second user.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods described herein include features for conducting social networking or use of the same. In some embodiments a user shares videos through social networking platform. In some embodiments a software module is configured to allow a user to automatically share the lip sync video to a social media platform. In some embodiments a user is provide a tool to provide a lip sync video feed within a social network the feed comprising a plurality of lip sync videos the feed identifying the author of each lip sync video the feed comprising tools to allow the user to comment on each lip sync video and mark each lip sync video as a favorite. In some embodiments a user is allowed to keep a generated video private. In some embodiments a user is allowed to share a generated video within a social networking media. Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to allow a user to choose to keep a recorded video private or post it on a social media platform.

In some embodiments a video feed is a featured content feed a followed user feed or a location based feed. Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to present featured feed videos to a user. Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to present follow feed videos to a user. In some embodiments a video feed is browsed by the user via touchscreen wipe gesture. Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to allow a user to browse and search videos.

In some embodiments a user is allowed to follow another user and his videos. In some embodiments a user and his videos are followed by another user. Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to allow a user to view edit delete and interact with his social networking followers. In some embodiments a user is allowed to change his notification settings.

In some embodiments a user is allowed to make friends within the social media networking. Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to allow a user to view search invite edit and delete friends. In some embodiments a user is allowed to review other users profile pages.

In some embodiments a user is allowed to browse search and choose socially shared videos within a social networking media. In some embodiments most popular and most recent videos are presented to a user. Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to allow a user to view videos associated with a selected audio content and to generate a lip sync video for the selected audio content.

In some embodiments a user is allowed to view and post comments on a socially shared video. Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to allow a user to view and edit comments for a video.

In some embodiments social networking is conducted within the presently described platforms and systems. In further embodiments users within the inner networking are allowed to follow make friends and interact with each other. In some embodiments social networking is conducted through third party social networking media account. In further embodiments the social networking media account is imported from one or more of Facebook YouTube Twitter LinkedIn Pinterest Google Plus Tumblr Instagram Reddit VK Snapchat Flickr Vine Meetup Ask.fm Classmates QQ WeChat Swarm by Foursquare Kik Yik Yak Shots Periscope Medium Soundcloud Tinder WhatsApp Slack Musical.ly Peach Blab Email Message Renren Sina Weibo Renren Line and Momo.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods described herein include an interface for selecting audio content or use of the same. In some embodiments an interface is provided to allow a user to select audio content allows the user to select audio content from a streaming audio track a pre existing audio file archived on the digital processing device and a pre existing lip sync video.

In some embodiments an interface is provided to allow a user to select audio content comprises tools allowing the user to edit the audio content. In further embodiments the editing comprises modification of the speed of the audio content modification of one or both of the end points of the audio content and modification of the volume of the audio content. In further embodiments the editing comprises mixing the audio content with one or more distinct audio contents.

In some embodiments audio contents are selected from online library. In some embodiments audio contents are selected from a user s own audio contents. Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to allow a user to browse and search different kinds of audio content from online library. Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to allow a user to view and search audio content within his own audio contents.

In some embodiments a user is allowed to use audio mixer to select the volume level between the original video sound and the selected sound clip. In further embodiments the user taps on the knob of the slider and move the finger horizontally to balance the volume between the original video sound and the selected sound clip. In further embodiments the user moves left to increase the volume of the original video sound and moves right to increase the volume of the selected sound clip.

In some embodiments a user selects audio prior to capturing video. In some embodiments a user captures video prior to selecting audio.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods described herein include an interface for capturing video content or use of the same. Referring to in a particular embodiment a process flow is described to show how users make lip sync videos through the combination of audio content and video content and provide video feed to the server. Referring to in a particular embodiment a process flow is described to include steps of selecting audio content capturing video content editing and synchronizing audio content with video content generating a new lip sync video and sharing the lip sync video to a social media platform.

In some embodiments an interface is provided to allow a user to capture video content from a live video stream a video captured in real time using the digital processing device or a pre existing video file archived on the digital processing device.

In some embodiments a user selects audio prior to capturing video. In some embodiments a user captures video prior to selecting audio. In some embodiments three shooting modes are allowed to create music video. Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to present different options for a user to create videos including picking music first shoot videos first and selecting from video library.

In some embodiments a user picks music first before capturing video content. In further embodiments a user taps to enter the select sound page once the user selected the sound it will lead to the shooting page. In some embodiments a user is allowed to switch and shoot with different speed mode for the same music video.

Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to allow a user to record videos after selecting an audio content wherein the user has the option to change the audio content to epic slow normal fast and lapse. In further embodiments when a user picks music first he is allowed to pick from online library or from a user s own audio contents. Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to allow a user to browse and search different kinds of audio content from online library. Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to allow a user to view and search audio content within his own audio contents.

In some embodiments a user shoots videos first before generating lip sync videos. In further embodiments a user taps to enter the shooting page a random sound from local library will be selected as default sound and the user has the option to pick a new sound to overwrite it.

Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to allow a user to press and hold a button to record videos. In some embodiments a user has lots of flexibilities while capturing video content. Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to allow a user to record videos wherein the user has the option of switching cameras starting a 5 second countdown turning on off flashlight and deleting part or all of the recording segments and saving the recording.

In some embodiments a user captures video content through the importing from video library. In further embodiments a user taps to enter the cameral roll to pick an existing video then the user can add the sound from the preview screen. Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to allow a user to choose videos or photo slideshows from a library.

In some embodiments an interface allowing a user to capture video content comprises tools allowing the user to edit the video content. In further embodiments the editing comprises modification of the speed of the video content and application of one or more color filters to the video content. In some embodiments a user is allowed to swipe to switch color filter. Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to allow a user to choose video filters name with music styles including new age hip hop soul folk country blues pop cello Latin rock violin and piano.

In some embodiments a time machine is used to create more dramatic effects to the captured video content. Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to allow a user to enable time machine to create more dramatic effects to the music video the effects including reverse time trap and relativity.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods described herein include an interface for synchronizing audio and video content or use of the same. In some embodiments an interface is provided to allow a user to select audio content comprises tools allowing the user to edit the audio content. In further embodiments the editing comprises modification of the speed of the audio content modification of one or both of the end points of the audio content and modification of the volume of the audio content. In further embodiments the editing comprises mixing the audio content with one or more distinct audio contents.

In some embodiments selected music will be played while shooting button is being pressed. In some embodiments once user press the shooting button the video recording will get started indicated by the progress bar and the selected sound clip will start to play. In some embodiments if a user stopped the video recording by releasing the shooting button the sound will also be paused. In some embodiments if a user resumes the recording and the sound will also be resumed.

In some embodiments a software module is configured to present an interface allowing a user to synchronize the audio content with the video content comprises tools allowing the user to select a start point. In further embodiments the start point is selected by the user via touchscreen wipe gesture. Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to allow a user to synchronize audio content with video content comprising tools allowing the user to scroll to cut the music and choose a start point. In some embodiments a user cut the music by dragging wave form of the sound. In some embodiments dragging the sound wave horizontally to select the corresponding sound clips the visible part of the sound clip on the screen is the selected part. In some embodiments once user release the finger on the screen the selected part of the sound clip will be replayed.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods described herein include a module for generating lip sync videos or use of the same. In some embodiments a software module is configured to synthesize the video content and the audio content to generate a new lip sync video.

In some embodiments software module configured to synthesize the video content and the audio content generates the lip sync video on the digital processing device using the resources of the at least one processor and the memory. In some embodiments a new lip sync video is a music video a dance video a comedy video a sports video a fashion video a make up video or a work out video. In some embodiments each lip sync video is full screen. In further embodiments the feed is browsed by the user via touchscreen wipe gesture. In further embodiments floating action buttons are provided on full screen music video. In further embodiments transparent navigation bar is used on the feed page so that the navigation bar less distractive on a full screen video.

In some embodiments each lip sync video is less than 20 seconds in length less than 15 seconds in length or less than 10 seconds in length. In some embodiments each lip sync video is less than 1 minute in length less than 2 minutes in length or less than 3 minutes in length.

In some embodiments a user is allowed to keep a generated video private. In some embodiments a user is allowed to share a generated video within a social networking media. Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to allow a user to choose to keep a recorded video private or post it on a social media platform.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods described herein include a lip sync video feed or use of the same. In some embodiments a lip sync video feed is provided within the context of social network the feed comprising a plurality of lip sync videos the feed identifying the author of each lip sync video the feed comprising tools to allow the user to comment on each lip sync video and mark each lip sync video as a favorite.

In some embodiments a video feed is a featured content feed a followed user feed or a location based feed. In some embodiments a featured content feed comprises creativity originality entertaining and a combination of all three qualities. In some embodiments a followed user feed comprises videos are from the user s friends followers and users this user follows. In some embodiments a location based feed comprises videos near the location of the user. In some embodiments a GPS location or similar services are provided to access a user s current location.

Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to present featured feed videos to a user. Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to present follow feed videos to a user. In some embodiments a video feed is browsed by the user via touchscreen wipe gesture. Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to allow a user to browse and search videos. Referring to in a particular embodiment a process flow is described to show how users make lip sync videos through the combination of audio content and video content and provide video feed to the server.

In some embodiments feeds are sorted by the created time or featured time for featured musicals . In some embodiments feeds will start to pre load once user landed on the feed page. In some embodiments user can swipe up down to browse the video feeds. In some embodiments once user swipe up down it will navigate to the next previous music video and the selected music video will start to loop.

In some embodiments periodically the app will detect if there is new content available for this user s feeds. If yes it shows an x new indicator and allows the user to click and refresh the feeds.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods described herein include a module for creating a duet or use of the same. In this case a user does not have to be in the same place as another user to create a musical together. In some embodiments a software module is configured to present an interface allowing a user to create a duet video the interface comprising tools allowing the user to select a pre existing lip sync video wherein the pre existing lip sync video is automatically integrated with captured video to create a new duet video. In further embodiments the software module automatically transitions back and forth between the pre existing lip sync video and the captured video to integrate the two and create the new duet video.

Referring to in particular embodiments an interface is provided to allow a user to generate a duet video with another user. In some embodiments the video segments of two duet users are intertwined with each other. In this case for example the two girls make a duet video like they are seamlessly talking and replying to each other.

In some embodiments a duet is initiated by a first user when he selects the profile of someone he follows and who follows him back and press on the . . . icon on the musical screen then the user simply needs to press start duet now and he is allowed to begin recording the duet. In some embodiments a user and the person he wishes to create a duet with need already follow each other. In some other embodiments a user is allowed to name one of his followers his best fan forever and lets them make a duet with him without him needing to follow them.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods described herein include modules for conducting video Q A or use of the same. In some embodiments a software module is configured to present an interface allowing a user to capture video content in response to a user question or comment.

Referring to in particular embodiments an interface is provided to allow a user to generate a Q A video in response to other users questions and comments. In this case when a first user asks can u show us yo room the second user will generate a video showing his room in response to that question. In some embodiments one Q A segment is presented in one video. In some embodiments two or more Q A segments are presented in one video.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods described herein include modules for creating and participating in challenges and contests or use of the same. In some embodiments a software module is configured to present an interface allowing a user to create a challenge for other users to generate and upload lip sync videos for one or more selected audio contents within a given time. In some embodiments one or more winners are chosen for the best lip sync videos and prizes are rewarded to the one or more winners. In some embodiments a software module is configured to present an interface allowing a user to participate in challenges of generating lip sync videos for a selected audio content. In some embodiments a software module is provided to present reward prizes to one or more challenge winners.

Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to allow a user to participate in a challenge to generate and upload lip sync videos for one or more selected audio contents within a given time for a specified prize. In this case a prize of a chance to FaceTime with a musician is provided for one or more challenge winners who post the best lip sync videos for that musician s selected music audio contents. In some embodiments one or more winners will be chosen for the best lip sync videos uploaded by challenge participants. In further embodiments winners are chosen based on energy creativity humor and overall talent or any combinations thereof.

In some embodiments a hashtag is named for the challenge. In some embodiments most popular and most recent challenging videos are listed.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods described herein include modules for live moment or use of the same. In some embodiments a user is presented a tool to generate and share a live moment within social networking media. As used herein a live moment refers to a series of still images captured from video content at a rate slower than the frame rate of the original video. The result is stylized content more animated than a photograph but with less detail and resolution than a video.

Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to allow a user to present live video on a social media platform. In this case while celebrating Fourth of July the user presents live moment on social media showing her dancing with an American flag.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods described herein include modules for shaking for music or use of the same. In some embodiments a user is presented a tool to shake the phone and a random music video will be selected and looped.

Referring to in a particular embodiment an interface is provided to allow a user to shake a phone once to get a random lip sync video from all videos wherein the chosen video will start to loop once it s been loaded. When the user shakes the phone again another random will be chosen and loaded.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods described herein include digital audio and digital video or use of the same. Many audio formats are suitable including by way of non limiting examples MP3 WAV AIFF AU Apple Lossless MPEG 4 Windows Media Vorbis AAC and Real Audio . Many video formats are suitable including by way of non limiting examples Windows Media Video WMV Windows Media Motion Picture Experts Group MPEG Audio Video Interleave AVI Apple QuickTime RealMedia Flash Video Motion JPEG M JPEG WebM and Advanced Video Coding High Definition AVCHD . In other embodiments video is compressed. Both lossy and lossless video CODECs are suitable including by way of non limiting examples DivX Cineform Cinepak Dirac DV FFV1 H.263 H.264 H.264 lossless JPEG 2000 MPEG 1 MPEG 2 MPEG 4 On2 Technologies VP5 VP6 VP7 and VP8 RealVideo Snow lossless Sorenson Video Theora and Windows Media Video WMV . In some embodiments video content is standard definition. In other embodiments video content is high definition. In further embodiments a high definition image or video frame includes at least about 1280 about 720 pixels or at least about 1920 about 1080 pixels.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods described herein include a digital processing device or use of the same. In further embodiments the digital processing device includes one or more hardware central processing units CPUs or general purpose graphics processing units GPGPUs that carry out the device s functions. In still further embodiments the digital processing device further comprises an operating system configured to perform executable instructions. In some embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected a computer network. In further embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected to the Internet such that it accesses the World Wide Web. In still further embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected to a cloud computing infrastructure. In other embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected to an intranet. In other embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected to a data storage device.

In accordance with the description herein suitable digital processing devices include by way of non limiting examples server computers desktop computers laptop computers notebook computers sub notebook computers netbook computers netpad computers set top computers media streaming devices handheld computers Internet appliances mobile smartphones tablet computers personal digital assistants video game consoles and vehicles. Those of skill in the art will recognize that many smartphones are suitable for use in the system described herein. Those of skill in the art will also recognize that select televisions video players and digital music players with optional computer network connectivity are suitable for use in the system described herein. Suitable tablet computers include those with booklet slate and convertible configurations known to those of skill in the art.

In some embodiments the digital processing device includes an operating system configured to perform executable instructions. The operating system is for example software including programs and data which manages the device s hardware and provides services for execution of applications. Those of skill in the art will recognize that suitable server operating systems include by way of non limiting examples FreeBSD OpenBSD NetBSD Linux Apple Mac OS X Server Oracle Solaris Windows Server and Novell NetWare . Those of skill in the art will recognize that suitable personal computer operating systems include by way of non limiting examples Microsoft Windows Apple Mac OS X UNIX and UNIX like operating systems such as GNU Linux . In some embodiments the operating system is provided by cloud computing. Those of skill in the art will also recognize that suitable mobile smart phone operating systems include by way of non limiting examples Nokia Symbian OS Apple iOS Research In Motion BlackBerry OS Google Android Microsoft Windows Phone OS Microsoft Windows Mobile OS Linux and Palm WebOS . Those of skill in the art will also recognize that suitable media streaming device operating systems include by way of non limiting examples Apple TV Roku Boxee Google TV Google Chromecast Amazon Fire and Samsung HomeSync . Those of skill in the art will also recognize that suitable video game console operating systems include by way of non limiting examples Sony PS3 Sony PS4 Microsoft Xbox 360 Microsoft Xbox One Nintendo Wii Nintendo Wii U and Ouya .

In some embodiments the device includes a storage and or memory device. The storage and or memory device is one or more physical apparatuses used to store data or programs on a temporary or permanent basis. In some embodiments the device is volatile memory and requires power to maintain stored information. In some embodiments the device is non volatile memory and retains stored information when the digital processing device is not powered. In further embodiments the non volatile memory comprises flash memory. In some embodiments the non volatile memory comprises dynamic random access memory DRAM . In some embodiments the non volatile memory comprises ferroelectric random access memory FRAM . In some embodiments the non volatile memory comprises phase change random access memory PRAM . In other embodiments the device is a storage device including by way of non limiting examples CD ROMs DVDs flash memory devices magnetic disk drives magnetic tapes drives optical disk drives and cloud computing based storage. In further embodiments the storage and or memory device is a combination of devices such as those disclosed herein.

In some embodiments the digital processing device includes a display to send visual information to a user. In some embodiments the display is a liquid crystal display LCD . In further embodiments the display is a thin film transistor liquid crystal display TFT LCD . In some embodiments the display is an organic light emitting diode OLED display. In various further embodiments on OLED display is a passive matrix OLED PMOLED or active matrix OLED AMOLED display. In some embodiments the display is a plasma display. In other embodiments the display is a video projector. In yet other embodiments the display is a head mounted display in communication with the digital processing device such as a VR headset. In further embodiments suitable VR headsets include by way of non limiting examples HTC Vive Oculus Rift Samsung Gear VR Microsoft HoloLens Razer OSVR FOVE VR Zeiss VR One Avegant Glyph Freefly VR headset and the like. In still further embodiments the display is a combination of devices such as those disclosed herein.

In some embodiments the digital processing device includes an input device to receive information from a user. In some embodiments the input device is a keyboard. In some embodiments the input device is a pointing device including by way of non limiting examples a mouse trackball track pad joystick game controller or stylus. In some embodiments the input device is a touch screen or a multi touch screen. In other embodiments the input device is a microphone to capture voice or other sound input. In other embodiments the input device is a video camera or other sensor to capture motion or visual input. In further embodiments the input device is a Kinect Leap Motion or the like. In still further embodiments the input device is a combination of devices such as those disclosed herein.

Referring to in a particular embodiment an exemplary digital processing device is programmed or otherwise configured to process user generated video content with audio content to generate a music video. The device can regulate various aspects of video processing as described herein such as for example integrating user generated video content with pre recorded influencer audio and video content to create a duet music video. In this embodiment the digital processing device includes a central processing unit CPU also processor and computer processor herein which can be a single core or multi core processor or a plurality of processors for parallel processing. The digital processing device also includes memory or memory location e.g. random access memory read only memory flash memory electronic storage unit e.g. hard disk communication interface e.g. network adapter for communicating with one or more other systems and peripheral devices such as cache other memory data storage and or electronic display adapters. The memory storage unit interface and peripheral devices are in communication with the CPU through a communication bus solid lines such as a motherboard. The storage unit can be a data storage unit or data repository for storing data. The digital processing device can be operatively coupled to a computer network network with the aid of the communication interface . The network can be the Internet an interne and or extranet or an intranet and or extranet that is in communication with the Internet. The network in some cases is a telecommunication and or data network. The network can include one or more computer servers which can enable distributed computing such as cloud computing. The network in some cases with the aid of the device can implement a peer to peer network which may enable devices coupled to the device to behave as a client or a server.

Continuing to refer to the CPU can execute a sequence of machine readable instructions which can be embodied in a program or software. The instructions may be stored in a memory location such as the memory . The instructions can be directed to the CPU which can subsequently program or otherwise configure the CPU to implement methods of the present disclosure. Examples of operations performed by the CPU can include fetch decode execute and write back. The CPU can be part of a circuit such as an integrated circuit. One or more other components of the device can be included in the circuit. In some cases the circuit is an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or a field programmable gate array FPGA .

Continuing to refer to the storage unit can store files such as drivers libraries and saved programs. The storage unit can store user data e.g. user preferences and user programs. The digital processing device in some cases can include one or more additional data storage units that are external such as located on a remote server that is in communication through an intranet or the Internet.

Continuing to refer to the digital processing device can communicate with one or more remote computer systems through the network . For instance the device can communicate with a remote computer system of a user. Examples of remote computer systems include personal computers e.g. portable PC slate or tablet PCs e.g. Apple iPad Samsung Galaxy Tab telephones Smart phones e.g. Apple iPhone Android enabled device Blackberry or personal digital assistants.

Methods as described herein can be implemented by way of machine e.g. computer processor executable code stored on an electronic storage location of the digital processing device such as for example on the memory or electronic storage unit . The machine executable or machine readable code can be provided in the form of software. During use the code can be executed by the processor . In some cases the code can be retrieved from the storage unit and stored on the memory for ready access by the processor . In some situations the electronic storage unit can be precluded and machine executable instructions are stored on memory .

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods disclosed herein include one or more non transitory computer readable storage media encoded with a program including instructions executable by the operating system of an optionally networked digital processing device. In further embodiments a computer readable storage medium is a tangible component of a digital processing device. In still further embodiments a computer readable storage medium is optionally removable from a digital processing device. In some embodiments a computer readable storage medium includes by way of non limiting examples CD ROMs DVDs flash memory devices solid state memory magnetic disk drives magnetic tape drives optical disk drives cloud computing systems and services and the like. In some cases the program and instructions are permanently substantially permanently semi permanently or non transitorily encoded on the media.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods disclosed herein include at least one computer program or use of the same. A computer program includes a sequence of instructions executable in the digital processing device s CPU written to perform a specified task. Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. In light of the disclosure provided herein those of skill in the art will recognize that a computer program may be written in various versions of various languages.

The functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments. In some embodiments a computer program comprises one sequence of instructions. In some embodiments a computer program comprises a plurality of sequences of instructions. In some embodiments a computer program is provided from one location. In other embodiments a computer program is provided from a plurality of locations. In various embodiments a computer program includes one or more software modules. In various embodiments a computer program includes in part or in whole one or more web applications one or more mobile applications one or more standalone applications one or more web browser plug ins extensions add ins or add ons or combinations thereof.

In some embodiments a computer program includes a web application. In light of the disclosure provided herein those of skill in the art will recognize that a web application in various embodiments utilizes one or more software frameworks and one or more database systems. In some embodiments a web application is created upon a software framework such as Microsoft NET or Ruby on Rails RoR . In some embodiments a web application utilizes one or more database systems including by way of non limiting examples relational non relational object oriented associative and XML database systems. In further embodiments suitable relational database systems include by way of non limiting examples Microsoft SQL Server mySQL and Oracle . Those of skill in the art will also recognize that a web application in various embodiments is written in one or more versions of one or more languages. A web application may be written in one or more markup languages presentation definition languages client side scripting languages server side coding languages database query languages or combinations thereof. In some embodiments a web application is written to some extent in a markup language such as Hypertext Markup Language HTML Extensible Hypertext Markup Language XHTML or eXtensible Markup Language XML . In some embodiments a web application is written to some extent in a presentation definition language such as Cascading Style Sheets CSS . In some embodiments a web application is written to some extent in a client side scripting language such as Asynchronous Javascript and XML AJAX Flash Actionscript Javascript or Silverlight . In some embodiments a web application is written to some extent in a server side coding language such as Active Server Pages ASP ColdFusion Perl Java JavaServer Pages JSP Hypertext Preprocessor PHP Python Ruby Tcl Smalltalk WebDNA or Groovy. In some embodiments a web application is written to some extent in a database query language such as Structured Query Language SQL . In some embodiments a web application integrates enterprise server products such as IBM Lotus Domino . In some embodiments a web application includes a media player element. In various further embodiments a media player element utilizes one or more of many suitable multimedia technologies including by way of non limiting examples Adobe Flash HTML 5 Apple QuickTime Microsoft Silverlight Java and Unity .

Referring to in a particular embodiment an application provision system comprises one or more databases accessed by a relational database management system RDBMS . Suitable RDBMSs include Firebird MySQL PostgreSQL SQLite Oracle Database Microsoft SQL Server IBM DB2 IBM Informix SAP Sybase SAP Sybase Teradata and the like. In this embodiment the application provision system further comprises one or more application severs such as Java servers NET servers PHP servers and the like and one or more web servers such as Apache IIS GWS and the like . The web server s optionally expose one or more web services via app application programming interfaces APIs . Via a network such as the Internet the system provides browser based and or mobile native user interfaces.

Referring to in a particular embodiment an application provision system alternatively has a distributed cloud based architecture and comprises elastically load balanced auto scaling web server resources and application server resources as well synchronously replicated databases .

In some embodiments a computer program includes a mobile application provided to a mobile digital processing device. In some embodiments the mobile application is provided to a mobile digital processing device at the time it is manufactured. In other embodiments the mobile application is provided to a mobile digital processing device via the computer network described herein.

In view of the disclosure provided herein a mobile application is created by techniques known to those of skill in the art using hardware languages and development environments known to the art. Those of skill in the art will recognize that mobile applications are written in several languages. Suitable programming languages include by way of non limiting examples C C C Objective C Java Javascript Pascal Object Pascal Python Ruby VB.NET WML and XHTML HTML with or without CSS or combinations thereof.

Suitable mobile application development environments are available from several sources. Commercially available development environments include by way of non limiting examples AirplaySDK alcheMo Appcelerator Celsius Bedrock Flash Lite NET Compact Framework Rhomobile and WorkLight Mobile Platform. Other development environments are available without cost including by way of non limiting examples Lazarus MobiFlex MoSync and Phonegap. Also mobile device manufacturers distribute software developer kits including by way of non limiting examples iPhone and iPad iOS SDK Android SDK BlackBerry SDK BREW SDK Palm OS SDK Symbian SDK webOS SDK and Windows Mobile SDK.

Those of skill in the art will recognize that several commercial forums are available for distribution of mobile applications including by way of non limiting examples Apple App Store Google Play Chrome Web Store BlackBerry App World App Store for Palm devices App Catalog for webOS Windows Marketplace for Mobile Ovi Store for Nokia devices Samsung Apps and Nintendo DSi Shop.

In some embodiments a computer program includes a standalone application which is a program that is run as an independent computer process not an add on to an existing process e.g. not a plug in. Those of skill in the art will recognize that standalone applications are often compiled. A compiler is a computer program s that transforms source code written in a programming language into binary object code such as assembly language or machine code. Suitable compiled programming languages include by way of non limiting examples C C Objective C COBOL Delphi Eiffel Java Lisp Python Visual Basic and VB .NET or combinations thereof. Compilation is often performed at least in part to create an executable program. In some embodiments a computer program includes one or more executable complied applications.

In some embodiments the computer program includes a web browser plug in e.g. extension etc. . In computing a plug in is one or more software components that add specific functionality to a larger software application. Makers of software applications support plug ins to enable third party developers to create abilities which extend an application to support easily adding new features and to reduce the size of an application. When supported plug ins enable customizing the functionality of a software application. For example plug ins are commonly used in web browsers to play video generate interactivity scan for viruses and display particular file types. Those of skill in the art will be familiar with several web browser plug ins including Adobe Flash Player Microsoft Silverlight and Apple QuickTime .

In view of the disclosure provided herein those of skill in the art will recognize that several plug in frameworks are available that enable development of plug ins in various programming languages including by way of non limiting examples C Delphi Java PHP Python and VB .NET or combinations thereof.

Web browsers also called Internet browsers are software applications designed for use with network connected digital processing devices for retrieving presenting and traversing information resources on the World Wide Web. Suitable web browsers include by way of non limiting examples Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox Google Chrome Apple Safari Opera Software Opera and KDE Konqueror. In some embodiments the web browser is a mobile web browser. Mobile web browsers also called mircrobrowsers mini browsers and wireless browsers are designed for use on mobile digital processing devices including by way of non limiting examples handheld computers tablet computers netbook computers subnotebook computers smartphones music players personal digital assistants PDAs and handheld video game systems. Suitable mobile web browsers include by way of non limiting examples Google Android browser RIM BlackBerry Browser Apple Safari Palm Blazer Palm WebOS Browser Mozilla Firefox for mobile Microsoft Internet Explorer Mobile Amazon Kindle Basic Web Nokia Browser Opera Software Opera Mobile and Sony PSP browser.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods disclosed herein include software server and or database modules or use of the same. In view of the disclosure provided herein software modules are created by techniques known to those of skill in the art using machines software and languages known to the art. The software modules disclosed herein are implemented in a multitude of ways. In various embodiments a software module comprises a file a section of code a programming object a programming structure or combinations thereof. In further various embodiments a software module comprises a plurality of files a plurality of sections of code a plurality of programming objects a plurality of programming structures or combinations thereof. In various embodiments the one or more software modules comprise by way of non limiting examples a web application a mobile application and a standalone application. In some embodiments software modules are in one computer program or application. In other embodiments software modules are in more than one computer program or application. In some embodiments software modules are hosted on one machine. In other embodiments software modules are hosted on more than one machine. In further embodiments software modules are hosted on cloud computing platforms. In some embodiments software modules are hosted on one or more machines in one location. In other embodiments software modules are hosted on one or more machines in more than one location.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods disclosed herein include one or more databases or use of the same. In view of the disclosure provided herein those of skill in the art will recognize that many databases are suitable for storage and retrieval of user music video and social networking information. In various embodiments suitable databases include by way of non limiting examples relational databases non relational databases object oriented databases object databases entity relationship model databases associative databases and XML databases. Further non limiting examples include SQL PostgreSQL MySQL Oracle DB2 and Sybase. In some embodiments a database is internet based. In further embodiments a database is web based. In still further embodiments a database is cloud computing based. In other embodiments a database is based on one or more local computer storage devices.

