---

title: Controllable-arch sensor boom or crane
abstract: A reel-based curved boom that follows a predetermined arch or trajectory is disclosed. Such a disappearing controllable-arch sensor boom or crane can enable a sensor on the end of the boom to be extended from a vehicle over obstacles such as walls or low buildings. It can also be extended to view the underside of bridges, or of the vehicle itself. It can be used to view targets of interest that are not within the direct field of view of the vehicle or from directly above said vehicle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09625287&OS=09625287&RS=09625287
owner: THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, AS REPRESENTED BY THE SECRETARY OF THE ARMY
number: 09625287
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160610
---
This is a divisional patent application of copending application Ser. No. 14 059 703 filed Oct. 22 2013 entitled Disappearing Controllable Arch Sensor Boom or Crane. The aforementioned application is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used sold imported and or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America.

This invention relates in general to controllable booms or cranes and more particularly to self deploying electronic sensor masts booms or cranes.

Buttoned up armor vehicles can be vulnerable to potential threats concealed behind walls around corners under culverts bridges in buildings or on roofs in the immediate vicinity of a roadway. They can also lack operational capability to inspect the underside of the vehicle for damage or planted explosives or to inspect other adjacent vehicles . Existing straight line jointed booms are not sufficiently maneuverable. They are not able to get over around obstacles to get a sensor or a pickup device in the proper position to look over a wall or into a road side culvert.

Various exemplary embodiments of a reel based curved boom that follows a predetermined arch or trajectory are disclosed. An exemplary boom or crane may be comprised of a cable that is flexible in one direction and rigid in the other direction. It unreels upward from an armored reel mechanism and bends downward in an arch of predetermined radius. Such an embodiment enables a sensor on the end of the boom to be extended from vehicle over obstacles or to the underside of bridges or of the vehicle itself to view targets of interest not within the direct field of view. They can also serve to inspect the underside of the vehicle for damage or planted explosives and or to inspect other adjacent vehicles.

One exemplary embodiment is a reel based curved boom that follows a predetermined arch or trajectory comprising a cable that is flexible for reeling and rigid for unsupported extension a sensor configured on an end of the cable and an armored reel mechanism into which the cable reels and from which the cable is capable of unreeling upward and bend downward in an arch of predetermined radius.

Another exemplary embodiment is a controllable arch sensor boom or crane based on a deployment mechanism suitable for mounting on a vehicle comprising a cable having an end capable of extending to form a boom of a predetermined arch or trajectory when unreeled a sensor configured on or about the end of the boom and a reel onto which the cable is reeled wherein unreeling the cable extends the sensor from a vehicle.

Yet another exemplary embodiment is a method of fabricating a boom or cable based on a series of closely spaced rigid rectangular blocks for flexible unwinding in a given direction from a winding on a compact reel mechanism to rigidly project out from a vehicle over a controlled large radius arc the method comprising the steps of configuring a cable based on a series of closely spaced rigid rectangular blocks holding together said series of closely spaced rigid rectangular blocks by connecting or interconnecting said blocks configuring a sensor an illuminator an actuator or other payload on or about an end of the cable or alternatively along the cable and provisioning flat conductors sandwiched between insulated layers on a top surface of the cable for the purpose of connecting power video and or data lines to said sensor illuminator actuators or other payload.

A reel based curved boom that follows a predetermined arch or trajectory is disclosed. An exemplary boom or crane may be comprised of a cable that is flexible in one direction and rigid in the other direction. It unreels upward from an armored reel mechanism and bends downward in an arch of predetermined radius.

Such a disappearing controllable arch boom or crane can enable a sensor on the end of the boom to be extended from a vehicle over obstacles such as walls or low buildings. It can also be extended to view e.g. the underside of bridges or of the vehicle itself. It can be used to view targets of interest that are not within the direct field of view of the vehicle or from directly above said vehicle.

The cable is configured as to allow a relatively small bend radius for wrapping on the cable reel as shown the cable is reeled in and out from the underside of the reel . This cable reel serves both to store the cable under an armor dome and pay out the cable to the desired radius. The geometry of the hinges on the block is such that the cable minimum bend radius in the downward direction is much greater than in the upward direction due to the compression of the blocks the radius being controlled by the average inter block spacing . This allows a motor driven roller pinch roller assembly on an arm to adjust radial distance of Sensor from the reel . Elevation arm can be driven by motor e.g. to adjust the elevation angle which the cable is launched and control the height of Sensor . Reel motor can be used to assist in the rewinding of the cable on the reel and to provide tension to the rollers and during payout to prevent kinking of the cable as is standard e.g. in tape recorders. Alternatively the reel mechanism s can be manually actuated. The entire reel and roller assembly can be mounted on a rotation stage which is used to place the cable and sensor at a particular azimuth. The rotation stage can be attached to a suitable vehicular mounting adapter determined by the type of vehicle and desired mounting location thereof.

Different exemplary methods of fabricating a boom or cable can result in different exemplary embodiments of a boom or cable that are very flexible in one direction so as to be wound on a compact reel mechanism but relatively rigid in the opposite direction so as to project out from a vehicle more horizontally over a controlled large radius arc . details one exemplary boom or cable configuration based on a series of closely spaced rigid rectangular blocks. One exemplary embodiment is a cable based on a series of closely spaced rigid rectangular blocks held together by continuous thin flexible tape such as stainless steel or other suitable fiber reinforced tape . This tape can be either glued spot welded otherwise affixed to the top of each block . The tape serves to keep the top edges of adjacent blocks in contact with each other while under tension. Flat conductors can be sandwiched between insulated layers on the top surface of the tape for the purposes of connecting power video and or data lines with e.g. sensors illuminators or actuators or other payloads e.g. on the tip of the cable or alternatively at other key points along the cable.

In all four exemplary embodiments the size of the blocks along the length of the cable as well as the inter block spacing can be varied such that the downward bend radius varies at a predetermined rate as the cable is extended out of the reel mechanism. For example it might be desirable to have a relatively small downward bend radius for the cable nearest the sensor and progressively large bend radius such that the sensor can look into a culvert below the level of vehicle at a relatively large distance from said vehicle.

The various exemplary methods and apparatus described above could also be applied to a vehicular bridge laying device simply by increasing the horizontal width of the cable and reel mechanism described to produce a walkway or road surface sufficiently wide and strong to facilitate foot or vehicular passage. In the place of the sensor an anchor or footing device can be provisioned to secure the end of the boom arch bridge to the opposite bank of the stream or ravine being bridged.

Benefits The variously described exemplary methods and apparatus can enable improved inspection capabilities e.g. of the shoulders of elevated roads or culverts and bridges from a transiting vehicle as well as improved self inspection of said vehicle or neighboring vehicles on which said road crosses. It can be utilized to see over building rooftops and poke through holes in windows and walls. It can be utilized to see as well as deliver or extract items over low hills or walls. It can potentially be stealthier and more flexible maneuverable than existing ballistic deployed sensors or micro ground vehicles.

It is obvious that many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as described.

