---

title: Method and system for coupling mobile interactive content to a club reward system
abstract: The method and system for coupling mobile interactive content to a club reward program is disclosed herein. A business utilizes the present inventions as part of a marketing campaign that is targeted to a customer's mobile communication device. The invention delivers an enticing interactive game to their customer's mobile communication device, rewarding the customer for successfully completing the game with prizes, recording the game player and game details, and auditing the information to ensure the integrity of the game play outcome, and automatically logging those prizes into the business' club reward system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09495689&OS=09495689&RS=09495689
owner: Joingo, LLC
number: 09495689
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160117
---
The Present Application is continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 522 050 filed on Oct. 23 2014 which is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 279 232 filed on Oct. 21 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 882 587 issued on Nov. 11 2014 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 405 699 filed on Oct. 22 2010 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to mobile communication interactions with reward clubs. More specifically the present invention relates to a method and system for interacting with a member of an enterprise s rewards club through mobile communication devices.

The use of mobile phones handsets and other wireless devices is becoming a primary means for individuals to stay connected in their personal and professional lives. Mobile handsets and other wireless devices are being targeted by businesses to aid in the marketing efforts of the business to deliver specific content directly to prospective customers. One means of marketing includes the se of a Rewards Club program utilized by businesses in many different industries to offer their customers special incentives for their repeat business. The challenge is to keep the customer engaged and earning rewards that will motivate them to more frequently patronize the business as well as ensuring the authenticity of earned rewards.

Methods currently in use to earn rewards include tracking activities performed when the customer is visiting the business and sending promotional material to the customer via mail or e mail thereby requiring a response from the customer. The problem with these methods of earning rewards is that the promotion is only being presented to the customer when they are physically at the business location and the promotional material sent via mail or e mail are often deemed junk mail or spam and are disposed of without being acted upon by the customer. Also methods currently in use to ensure the authenticity of rewards include visual inspection of a reward receipt often in the form of punched or stamped paper card and requiring the customer to register their card or Rewards Club account online at the business website or in person at the business physical location before the customer can earn and or redeem rewards. The problem with these methods of ensuring the authenticity of rewards is that fraud can be easily missed upon visual inspection and that requiring the customer to initiate several steps before their rewards are authenticated discourages many customers from participating.

Roemer U.S. Patent Publication Number 20100004045 for a Method And System For Awarding Bonuses Via Telecommunication Links discloses calling members of a casino player rewards club to award bonuses to the player.

Schwartz U.S. Patent Publication Number 20110191152 for ASSIGNING A MOBILE REDEEMABLE PERSONAL IDENTIFICATION NUMBER TO A CONSUMER AS A MOBILE REWARD OR FOLLOWING A PURCHASE OF A PROMOTIONAL ITEM discloses a method to promote the sale of branded products through in store acquisition of branded products or out of store promotions designed to enhance retention of mobile rewards including one or more the following rewards mobile sweepstake ballots mobile loyalty points and mobile coupons.

Code Division Multiple Access CDMA is a spread spectrum communication system used in second generation and third generation cellular networks and is described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 901 307.

Interactive voice response IVR is a telephone technology in which a user uses a phone to interact with a database to acquire information.

Short Message Service SMS is text messaging communication using a mobile phone or other device to send messages up to 160 characters in length.

Multimedia messaging service MMS communication is a communication transmitted to and from a mobile phone that includes a multimedia content such as a digital photograph JPEG videos and the like.

A SMS Gateway is used to send text messages with or without a mobile phone and is used by aggregators to forward text messages to mobile phones.

BLUETOOTH technology is a standard short range radio link that operates in the unlicensed 2.4 gigaHertz band.

Public Switch Telephone Network PSTN is a telecommunication system in which networks are inter connected to allow telephones to communicate with each other throughout the world.

Telephone Consumer Protection Act TCPA of 1991 restricts the use of SMS text messages received by mobile phones and SMS messages sent without a consumer s consent can violate the TCPA.

Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP is a set of conventions for controlling the transfer of information via the Internet from a web server computer to a client computer and also from a client computer to a web server.

Internet is the worldwide decentralized totality of server computers and data transmission paths which can supply information to a connected and browser equipped client computer and can receive and forward information entered from the client computer.

FTP or File Transfer Protocol is a protocol for moving files over the Internet from one computer to another.

Short message peer to peer SMPP is a telecommunications protocol for exchanging SMS messages between SMS peer entities.

A SMS aggregator is an entity that provides connectivity with a mobile phone carrier by offering a SMS gateway to send and receive messages and other digital content.

Application Programming Interface API is a collection of computer software code usually a set of class definitions that can perform a set of related complex tasks but has a limited set of controls that may be manipulated by other software code entities. The set of controls is deliberately limited for the sake of clarity and ease of use so that programmers do not have to work with the detail contained within the given API itself.

Direct Inward Dialing DID involves a carrier providing one or more trunk lines to a customer for connection to the customer s private branch exchange PBX and a range of telephone lines are allocated to this line.

Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP relates to communications transmitted over the Internet such as SKYPE.

User Interface or UI is the junction between a user and a computer program. An interface is a set of commands or menus through which a user communicates with a program. A command driven interface is one in which the user enter commands. A menu driven interface is one in which the user selects command choices from various menus displayed on the screen.

Web Browser is a complex software program resident in a client computer that is capable of loading and displaying text and images and exhibiting behaviors as encoded in HTML HyperText Markup Language from the Internet and also from the client computer s memory. Major browsers include MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER NETSCAPE APPLE SAFARI MOZILLA FIREFOX and OPERA.

Web Server is a computer able to simultaneously manage many Internet information exchange processes at the same time. Normally server computers are more powerful than client computers and are administratively and or geographically centralized. An interactive form information collection process generally is controlled from a server computer to which the sponsor of the process has access.

CRM is a widely implemented strategy for managing a company s interactions with customers clients and sales prospects. CRM involves using technology to organize automate and synchronize business processes and the like principally sales activities but also business processes and the like for marketing customer service and technical support.

Wireless Application Protocol WAP is an open global specification that empowers users with mobile wireless communication devices such as mobile phones to easily access data and to interact with Websites over the Internet through such mobile wireless communication device. WAP works with most wireless communication networks such as CDPD CDMA GSM PDC PHS TDMA FLEX reflex iDEN TETRA DECT DataTAC Mobitex and GRPS. WAP can be built on most operating systems including PalmOS WINDOWS CE FLEXOS OS 9 JavaOS and others.

WAP Push is defined as an encoded WAP content message delivered pushed to a mobile communication device which includes a link to a WAP address.

There is a need for an enterprise to interact with a member of the enterprise s rewards club through the member s mobile communication device in order to reward the member in an entertaining manner.

The present invention enables an enterprise or business to send to their customer s data capable communication device an enticing interactive game that is related to the products and services the enterprise is promoting. The customer is rewarded with prizes for successfully completing the game and the prizes are automatically logged into the enterprise s club reward system for the customer. The system that generates the mobile game play for prizes is designed to prevent tampering and fraud. The system links and records each individual game player customer or end user each game and each associated step of a game for post game play auditing by the system. The process of recording and auditing helps ensure outcome integrity of the game. The method and system of the present invention keeps the customer receptive to the marketing efforts of the enterprise by delivering to the customer s data capable communication device an interactive game played for prizes which automatically records the prizes to the enterprise s club reward system. The method and system also guards against fraud to the enterprise since the game player and game details are recorded and audited for each game.

In operation the method and system for coupling mobile interactive content to a club reward program is software that a business utilizes as part of a marketing campaign that is targeted to the customer s mobile communication device. The business integrates this software with other existing software to enable delivery of an enticing interactive game to their customer s mobile communication device rewarding the customer for successfully completing the game with prizes recording the game player and game details and auditing the information to ensure the integrity of the game play outcome and automatically logging those prizes into the business club reward system.

The system is preferably comprised of a mobile communication device capable of running mobile software applications. A mobile application resident on the mobile communication device that supports interactive executable content collects user input and queues the content up for opportunistic delivery to the fixed network. A piece of interactive content that requires the user to perform some action in order to gain access to a reward. A server in the fixed network that is connected to the club reward system by a reliable data network. The server accepts the stream of past user input from the mobile software application decodes the stream into a set of outcomes maps the outcomes to rewards ensures transaction integrity and uploads the rewards to the club reward system.

The present invention provides a superior means for a business to engage their customers in a marketing promotion via the customer s mobile communication device providing the customer a means of earning rewards written in such a way that it is not susceptible to tampering recording the game player and game details and auditing the information to ensure the integrity of the game play outcome and automatically logging earned prizes into the business club reward system.

One aspect of the present invention is a method for coupling mobile interactive content to a club reward system. The method includes requesting a game from a mobile software application on a data capable communication device. The method also includes assigning a game ID to the game and a plurality of step IDs to each of the steps of the game. The method also includes generating a decision path for the game and delivering the decision path to a decision path database. The method also includes playing the game. The method also includes recording the steps of the game as completed at a mobile resident path database. The method also includes completing the game and delivering a final outcome to a decision path database. The method also includes auditing the game player the game and the decision path for validity of the game play. The method also includes recording a prize associated with successfully completing the game at a club rewards prize database.

Another aspect of the present invention is a method for coupling mobile interactive content to a club reward system. The method includes requesting a game from a mobile software application on a data capable communication device. The method also includes assigning a game ID to the game and a plurality of step IDs to each of the steps of the game. The method also includes generating a decision path for the game and delivering the decision path to a decision path database. The method also includes requesting additional content for the game through a communications director client wherein a storage manager attaches game information and a content decision path to the content request. The method also includes transmitting the content from the content server to the communications director client. The method also includes transmitting the content decision path to the decision path database. The method also includes transmitting the content decision path to the storage manager. The method also includes transmitting the content from communications director client to the game engine. The method also includes playing the game. The method also includes recording the steps of the game as completed at a mobile resident path database. The method also includes completing the game and delivering a final outcome to a decision path database. The method also includes auditing the game player the game and the decision path for validity of the game play. The method also includes recording a prize associated with successfully completing the game at a club rewards prize database.

Yet another aspect of the present invention is a method for coupling mobile interactive content to a club reward system. The method includes requesting a game from a mobile software application on a data capable communication device. The method also includes assigning a game ID to the game and a plurality of step IDs to each of the steps of the game. The method also includes generating a decision path for the game and delivering the decision path to a decision path database. The method also includes playing the game. The method also includes recording the steps of the game as completed at a mobile resident path database. The method also includes completing the game and delivering a final outcome to a decision path database. The method also includes auditing the game player the game and the decision path for validity of the game play by determining the identity of the game player determining the identification of the game and matching the game ID to the game and analyzing the decision path of the game by confirming the step IDs for the game. The method also includes recording a prize associated with successfully completing the game at a club rewards prize database.

Yet another aspect of the present invention is a system for coupling mobile interactive content to a club reward system. The system includes a data capable communication device a network a communications director server a game logic compiler a content server comprising content for a plurality of games a decision path database an audit engine and a club prize reward database. The data capable communication device comprises a mobile resident software application comprising a communications director client a game engine and a mobile resident storage manager. The mobile resident software application is configured to provide a plurality of games. The game logic compiler is configured to assign a game ID to a game of the plurality of games selected to be played and a assign plurality of step IDs to each of the steps of the selected game. The game logic compiler is also configured to generate a decision path for the game and deliver the decision path to the decision path database. The audit engine is configured to audit the game player the game and the decision path for validity of the game play and configured to record a prize associated with successfully completing the game at a club rewards prize database.

Yet another aspect of the present invention is a method for coupling mobile interactive content to a club reward system. The method includes requesting a game from a mobile software application on a data capable communication device. The method also includes assigning a game ID to the game and a plurality of step IDs to each of the steps of the game. The method also includes generating a decision path for the game and delivering the decision path to a decision path database. The method also includes playing the game. The method also includes recording the steps of the game as completed at a mobile resident path database. The method also includes completing the game and delivering a final outcome to a decision path database. The method also includes recording a prize associated with successfully completing the game at a club rewards prize database.

Yet another aspect of the present invention is a method for coupling mobile interactive content to a club reward system. The method includes requesting an interactive content from a mobile software application on a data capable communication device. The method also includes assigning an identification to the interactive content and a step identification to each of the steps of the interactive content. The method also includes generating a decision path for the interactive content and delivering the decision path to a decision path database. The method also includes recording the steps of the interactive content as completed at a mobile resident path database. The method also includes completing the interactive content and delivering a final outcome to a decision path database. The method also includes recording a prize associated with successfully completing the interactive content at a club rewards prize database.

Having briefly described the present invention the above and further objects features and advantages thereof will be recognized by those skilled in the pertinent art from the following detailed description of the invention when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

A system for coupling mobile interactive content to a club reward system of an enterprise is generally designated . The system is preferably comprised of a data capable communication device a network a communications director server a game logic compiler a content server a decision path database an audit engine and a prize reward database . The data capable communication device preferably comprises a mobile resident software application which is written in a programming language that runs on an operating system of the data capable communication device . Those skilled in the pertinent art will recognize that the programming language can be written to run on any operating system of a mobile communication device.

The enterprise can be any type of organization that desires to conduct a mobile marketing campaign or similar mobile marketing to end users. The enterprise can be a business like Exxon Apple Nordstrom or the like. The enterprise can be a non profit or charity like the American Red Cross. The enterprise can be a government agency like FEMA. The enterprise can be a political party. The enterprise can be an organization like the American Medical Association. Those skilled in the pertinent art will recognize other types of enterprises that can use the present invention.

The data capable communication device utilized with the present invention can include mobile phones smartphones tablet computers PDAs and the like. Examples of smartphones include the IPHONE smartphone from Apple Inc. BLACKBERRY smartphones from Research In Motion the DROID smartphone from Motorola Mobility Inc. and many more. Examples of tablet computing devices include the IPAD tablet from Apple Inc. and the XOOM tablet from Motorola Mobility Inc.

Each of the interface descriptions preferably discloses use of at least one communication protocol to establish handshaking or bi directional communications. These protocols preferably include but are not limited to XML HTTP TCP IP Serial UDP FTP Web Services WAP SMTP SMPP DTS Stored Procedures Import Export Global Positioning Triangulation IM SMS MMS GPRS and Flash. The databases used with the system preferably include but are not limited to MS SQL Access MySQL Progress Oracle DB2 Open Source DBs and others. Operating system used with the system preferably include Microsoft 2010 XP Vista 200o Server 2003 Server 2008 Server Windows Mobile Linux Android Unix I series AS 400 and Apple OS.

The underlying protocol at a server such as the communication director server is preferably Internet Protocol Suite Transfer Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP and the transmission protocol to receive a file is preferably a file transfer protocol FTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or other similar protocols. The transmission protocol ranges from SIP to MGCP to FTP and beyond. The protocol at the communications director server is preferably HTTP.

Mobile communication service provider aka phone carrier of the end user such as VERIZON AT T SPRINT T MOBILE and the like mobile communication service providers provide the communication network for communication to the data capable communication device .

The primary components of the mobile resident software application are preferably a communications director client a game engine and a mobile resident storage manager .

Referring specifically to the data capable communication device displays an icon which is pressed to commence the mobile resident software application . This action prompts the mobile resident software application to fetch a game logic . The request for the game logic is sent through the communications director client wherein the storage manager attaches a related decision path to the game logic request .

The request is sent from the communication director client over a network to the communications director server located at a game site . The communications director server processes the fetch request by determining if the fetch request is for game logic or content and communications director server retrieves the game logic or content from either the game logic compiler or the content server . For example if the fetch request is for game logic the fetch request is delivered to the game logic compiler . The communications director server game logic compiler the content server and the decision path database preferably all reside at the game site .

Within the game logic compiler the game is assigned a unique game identification and the steps within the game are also assigned a unique game identification which are attached to the game logic . The game logic is delivered from the game logic compiler to the communications director server . Concurrently the communications director server delivers the decision path for the game to the decision path database . Also any residual decision path which was not accepted by the decision path database is preferably returned to the communications director server for delivery to the mobile resident decision path so that the residual decision path may be attached to the next fetch request. The game logic which now includes the game ID and step IDs is delivered with the residual decision path over the network to the communications director client . In this manner the entire game with all of the possible outcomes is delivered in one transmission to the data capable communications device in order to avoid delays in the game play by the end user.

At the communications director client on the data capable communications device the decision path is delivered to the storage manager and the game logic including the game ID and the step IDs is delivered to the game engine . As mentioned above the entire game with the outcome is delivered in essentially a single transmission as opposed to an end user playing the game and waiting for transmissions for the completed step to be sent to a server and retrieval of the next step from the server.

The game engine receives the game logic . In order for the game engine to determine if a game already exists on the data capable communication device the game engine preferably compares the game ID received from the game logic compiler to any existing game ID in a game information database . The game information database preferably contains existing game ID and maintains record of the current step of game play. A request for and retrieval of existing game ID and the current step of any such game play is made by the game engine . The game engine then makes a decision if the game play is an existing session . If game ID was not located in the game information database then the game is initiated and the end user plays the game . Upon completing the game game engine commences a new game setting the current step of game play at start .

Alternatively if a game ID was found in the game information database and thus there is an existing game at block the game engine retrieves the current step of game play from the game information database and the process of the current step of the game play being requested and received takes place at block . The game is initiated at block and the end user plays the game . Upon completing the game the final outcome is shown .

As the game engine runs through the steps of game play blocks on the steps are recorded to the mobile resident decision path database on the data capable communication device where the steps are grouped together to form a decision path for the completed game. When a data request is sent from the game engine to the communications data server the game ID and decision path are attached to the data request. As discussed below the decision path prevents fraud on the enterprise.

When the game engine encounters a need for content to continue a content request is made from the game engine . The content request is sent through the communications director client where the storage manager attaches any related game information and decision path to the content request . With the game information and decision path attached to the content request the communications director client sends the request over the network to the communications director server . The communications director server processes the fetch request by determining if the request is for game logic or content and retrieving from the appropriate source. For a content request the content request is delivered to the content server . The content server delivers the content to the communications director server . Concurrently the communications director server delivers the decision path to the decision path database . Any residual decision path that was not accepted by the decision path database is returned to the communications director server for delivery to the mobile resident decision path database so that the residual decision path may be attached to the next fetch request. The content is delivered with the residual decision path from the communications director server over the network to the communications director client on the data capable communication device . At the communication director client the decision path is delivered to the storage manager and the content is delivered to the game engine .

Upon completion of the game when the decision path database receives and accepts the final outcome for the game the audit engine is initiated for validation of the game. The audit engine verifies that the game player game and decision path are valid and if they are valid the audit engine records the associated prize to the prize reward database . The program then ends . The audit engine preferably resides at the game site while the prize reward database preferably resides at an enterprise site.

As shown in the end user plays the game on the data capable communication device with the game shown on the display screen of the data capable communication device . The present invention allows the end user to play the game without delay since the entire game with the decision path for validation purposes is transmitted to the data capable communication device over the network.

A flow chart of a preferred method for coupling mobile interactive content to a club reward system is shown in . The method begins at block with requesting a game from a mobile software application on a data capable communication device. At block a game ID is assigned to the game and a plurality of step IDs are assigned to each of the steps of the game. At block a decision path for the game is generated. At block the decision path is delivered to a decision path database. At block the game is played by an end user on a data capable communication device. At block the steps of the game as completed are recorded at a mobile resident path database. At block the game is completed by the end user. At block a final outcome is delivered to a decision path database. At block the game player the game and the decision path are audited for validity of the game play. At block a prize associated with successfully completing game is automatically recorded at a club rewards prize database.

From the foregoing it is believed that those skilled in the pertinent art will recognize the meritorious advancement of this invention and will readily understand that while the present invention has been described in association with a preferred embodiment thereof and other embodiments illustrated in the accompanying drawings numerous changes modification and substitutions of equivalents may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention which is intended to be unlimited by the foregoing except as may appear in the following appended claim. Therefore the embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined in the following appended claims.

