---

title: Systems and methods for leveraging social queuing to facilitate event ticket distribution
abstract: A method for identifying a simulated social media account history is provided. The method may include querying a social media identification information (“social media ID”) to determine whether the account history includes one or more parameters that indicate whether the social media ID is related to an automated entity or a human entity. The parameters may include at least one of less than a threshold number of friends on the account. The parameters may include more than a threshold frequency of historic ticket purchases per unit time. The parameters may also include disparate location of historic ticket purchases per unit time. The parameters may also include a historic record of less than a threshold reaction time to a plurality of ticket offers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09639811&OS=09639811&RS=09639811
owner: SONGKICK.COM B.V.
number: 09639811
owner_city: London
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20160415
---
This application is a continuation of commonly owned currently pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 595 797 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR LEVERAGING SOCIAL QUEUING TO FACILITATE EVENT TICKET DISTRIBUTION filed on Jan. 13 2015.

The disclosure relates to prioritizing potential event ticket purchasers. This disclosure also relates to simulating identifying and or searching for potential event ticket purchaser behavior.

Currently ticket resellers utilize automated software for purchasing tickets. Such automated software may in turn utilize application programming interface s API s to access event ticket purchasing websites. These APIs typically are supported by one or more computers.

APIs are to software and or hardware information systems as plug and socket designs are to appliances such as lamps. More specifically APIs allows software and or hardware information systems to interoperate with other systems and or programs in a way similar to the way that plugs and sockets allow lamps to operate with the electrical grid. Just as a plug conforms to the contours of a socket in order for electricity to flow to allow the lamp to operate so to a computer program designed to be compatible with another program should preferably conform to the API of the first program. In other words the API of the first program may establish rules about how other programs can send and receive information so that the two programs can work together to execute specific tasks.

Programs for selling event tickets are typically designed for human interaction i.e. these programs are designed to be used by human ticket purchasers. However ticket resellers have created applications with automated software that utilizes APIs designed to interact with the programs for selling event tickets. Such applications and APIs associated therewith may enjoy an unfair advantage over human ticket purchasers. The unfair advantage may result at least in part because the reaction time of the applications created by resellers is typically less than the reaction time of human ticket purchasers and the volume of ticket purchasing attempts made by resellers is typically more than the volume of attempts made by human ticket purchasers. Nevertheless such applications typically exhibit automated computer like behavior.

It would be desirable to provide event ticket systems and methods that reduce the unfair advantage in ticket purchases enjoyed by automated ticket purchasing software and associated APIs.

Certain embodiments may include an event ticket distribution system. The system may include a receiver configured to receive a plurality of logins.

Each of the logins may be intended for an event ticket purchase. Each of the logins may include or be associated with social media identification information social media ID . In certain embodiments more than one login may be associated with a single user to allow systems and methods according to the invention to retrieve account history from a number of different of social media sites associated with the user.

The system may include a processor configured to retrieve account history associated with the social media ID. The processor may be further configured to calculate an index value associated with the social media ID. The index value may be based at least in part on the retrieved account history.

When the index value associated with a login is above a pre determined threshold value the processor may be further configured to assign a priority flag to the login. The priority flag may enable a preferably real time event ticket purchase not available in real time or in certain embodiments not available at all to a non flagged login. It should be noted that to obtain priority treatment on a login to purchase tickets the purchaser should at least in some embodiments pre register in order to have their requested ticket purchase be qualified as a priority purchase. In such circumstances the purchaser may receive priority ticket purchase opportunities in real time whereas such real time ticket purchase opportunities may not be available to a non flagged login. It should be noted that in certain embodiments the pre registration step preferably provides time to retrieve and analyze a user s social media history. Such analysis may preferably provide a detailed understanding of the relative value of the user to the performing entity. In certain embodiments such a value determination may preferably dictate a timed where users are allotted prioritized times staggered where users receive ordered times relative to one another windowed where users are provided time windows or other suitably configured system for interacting with searching for and or purchasing of tickets.

In some embodiments an entity may have an interest in populating selected seats for an event with selected participants such as entity loyal participants. Such an entity may choose to award ticket purchasing priority to certain entity loyal participants based on identifiable indications of loyalty associated with the social media IDs or other activity identifying information or websites of such entity loyal participants. This process may be referred to herein as social queuing. For the purposes of this application social queuing may be understood to be prioritizing entity loyal event participants in the ticket purchasing queue based on account history corresponding to social media IDs. Social queuing may also include limiting access or denying access to certain participants based on account history corresponding to social media IDs or other suitable indicia. In addition social queuing may be based on activity identifying information obtained from websites and or apps such as Songkick iTunes Amazon YouTube or other such applications that track and or monitor user affinity to select performers. Information obtained from such applications may be preferable at least because such information is typically pre screened to insure the integrity of the information.

In embodiments involving such apps a user may preferably authorize such embodiments to inspect and retrieve information resident in apps and or websites and then based on the information obtained therefrom notify the user regarding upcoming performances in the user s geographic area. Furthermore such embodiments may preferably provide ticket purchasing opportunities to similar shows or performances. It should be noted that such embodiments may also be used for tracking user interest in movies or other such performances and notifying and or offering tickets to such performances based upon the tracking.

It should be noted further that such embodiments may also be utilized for determining historical commitment to charitable or commercial organizations or outlets based at least in part on dollars contributed or spent over time and or historical attendance at affairs associated therewith.

Furthermore such an entity may decide to limit ticket resellers their software and their associated APIs from becoming priority event ticket purchasers. Accordingly such an entity may decide to limit the ticket selection of resellers their software and their associated APIs.

Illustrative embodiments of apparatus and methods in accordance with the principles of the invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural functional and procedural modifications may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention.

As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art upon reading the following disclosure the embodiments may be embodied as a method a data processing system or a computer program product. Accordingly the embodiments may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects.

Furthermore embodiments may take the form of a computer program product stored by one or more computer readable storage media having computer readable program code or instructions embodied in or on the storage media. Any suitable computer readable storage media may be utilized including hard disks CD ROMs optical storage devices magnetic storage devices and or any combination thereof. In addition various signals representing data or events as described herein may be transferred between a source and a destination in the form of electromagnetic waves traveling through signal conducting media such as metal wires optical fibers and or wireless transmission media e.g. air and or space .

Exemplary embodiments may be embodied at least partially in hardware and include one or more databases receivers transmitters processors modules including hardware and or any other suitable hardware. Furthermore operations executed may be performed by the one or more databases receivers transmitters processors and or modules including hardware.

Input output I O module may include a microphone keypad touch screen and or stylus through which a user of server may provide input and may also include one or more of a speaker for providing audio output and a video display device for providing textual audiovisual and or graphical output. Software may be stored within memory and or storage to provide instructions to processor for enabling server to perform various functions. For example memory may store software used by server such as an operating system application programs and an associated database . Alternately some or all of server computer executable instructions may be embodied in hardware or firmware not shown . As described in detail below database may provide storage for social media information social media identification information one or more algorithms for use with generating an index according to certain embodiments existing ticket opportunities etc.

Server may operate in a networked environment supporting connections to one or more remote computers such as terminals and . Terminals and may be personal computers or servers that include many or all of the elements described above relative to server . The network connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. When used in a LAN networking environment computer is connected to LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment server may include a modem or other means for establishing communications over WAN such as Internet . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are illustrative and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used. The existence of any of various well known protocols such as TCP IP Ethernet FTP HTTP and the like is presumed and the system can be operated in a client server configuration to permit a user to retrieve web pages via the World Wide Web from a web based server. Any of various conventional web browsers can be used to display and manipulate data on web pages.

Additionally application program which may be used by server may include computer executable instructions for invoking user functionality related to communication such as email short message service SMS and voice input and speech recognition applications.

Computing device and or terminals or may also be mobile terminals including various other components such as a battery speaker and antennas not shown .

A terminal such as or may be used by a user of the embodiments set forth herein. Information input may be stored in memory . The input information may be processed by an application such as one of applications .

Apparatus may include one or more of the following components I O circuitry which may include the transmitter device and the receiver device and may interface with fiber optic cable coaxial cable telephone lines wireless devices PHY layer hardware a keypad display control device or any other suitable encoded media or devices peripheral devices which may include counter timers real time timers power on reset generators or any other suitable peripheral devices logical processing device processor which may compute data structural information structural parameters of the data quantify indices and machine readable memory .

Machine readable memory may be configured to store in machine readable data structures social media information social media identification information one or more algorithms for use with generating an index according to certain embodiments existing ticket opportunities and or any other suitable information or data structures.

Components and may be coupled together by a system bus or other interconnections and may be present on one or more circuit boards such as . In some embodiments the components may be integrated into a single silicon based chip.

Apparatus may operate in a networked environment supporting connections to one or more remote computers via a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or other suitable networks. When used in a LAN networking environment apparatus may be connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter in I O circuitry . When used in a WAN networking environment apparatus may include a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN. It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are illustrative and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used. The existence of any of various well known protocols such as TCP IP Ethernet FTP HTTP and the like is presumed and the system may be operated in a client server configuration to permit a user to operate processor for example over the Internet.

Apparatus may be included in numerous general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices mobile phones and or other personal digital assistants PDAs multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems tablets programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

A ticket distribution system according to some embodiments may include a receiver. The receiver may be configured to receive a plurality of logins. Each of the logins may be intended for an event ticket purchase. Each of the logins may include an e mail address or other electronic information associated with a user. Each of the logins may include social media identification information such as social media IDs. Each of the logins preferably facilitates the obtaining of account history associated with social media IDs or other suitable history relating to the user.

The system may also include a processor. The processor may be configured to retrieve account history associated with the social media ID. The retrieval of account history may preferably occur pursuant to a pre registration by an event ticket purchaser. The pre registration may occur at some pre determined time prior to when the tickets are offered for sale.

Such a pre registration may preferably grant access to a system to retrieve substantially all or most or some information from the account history of the social media ID. Further such a pre registration may allow the system to further retrieve related information from other social media sites linked to the social media site to which the system has been granted access. Such a pre registration may allow the system to further retrieve related information from other general sites such as for example Spotify a music downloading site linked to the social media site to which the system has been granted access.

The processor may be further configured to calculate an index value associated with the login and or other identifying information. The index value may be based at least in part on the retrieved account history. The index value may be based at least in part on the retrieved information from sites related or otherwise linked to the social media site.

When the index value associated with a login is above or below in other embodiments a pre determined threshold value the processor may be further configured to assign a priority flag to the login. The priority flag may enable a real time ticket event purchase not available in real time to a non flagged login. Other benefits awarded to a priority login are also within the scope of this invention.

The index value may also be based at least in part on other historical information such as for example historical ticket purchases for performances that the user attended. Such attendance at performances may be verified information obtained from credit card debit card or other suitable payment instrument activity at the performances government identification instruments provided at performances apps that are resident on a person s mobile device that are used to process and or present tickets at a performance and can verify attendances thereat and or other third party information which can be used to verify historical performance attendance.

The account history may include at least one preferably time stamped indication of affinity for an entity such as a performing entity associated with the event. The account history may include at least one occurrence of a tagging of a photograph of an entity associated with the event.

The account history may also include at least one occurrence of a linking of a photograph of a performing entity associated with the event to the profile of the social media ID. The linking of the photograph of the performing entity associated with the event to the profile of the social media ID may be the same as or different from the tagging of a photograph of the performing entity associated with the event to the profile of the social media ID.

The account history may also include an indication of a threshold amount of streaming audio time related to a performing entity associated with the event. Such streaming audio time may preferably be obtained by accessing via the social media ID linked account s at a streaming audio website and downloading therefrom streaming audio information.

The account history may also include one or more parameters that indicate whether the social media ID is related to an automated entity or a human entity. The parameters may include at least one of pre determined number of friends on the account. The parameters may include a pre determined ticket purchasing frequency. The parameters may include a location or quantity of historic ticket purchases and historic reaction time to ticket offers or other suitable indicia of ticket reselling history. In certain embodiments the parameters may include a determination as to whether the social media ID is related to an entity that has a history of ticket reselling. Such an entity or ID may preferably be flagged or placed on a watch list for future attempts to purchase tickets.

Embodiments may include a method for simulating a social media account history. The method may include generating a social media ID or using an already existent social media ID.

Embodiments of methods may also include creating an account history for the social media ID with respect to a pre determined entity. The pre determined entity may be the entity associated with the event. The tickets may provide an opportunity to view the entity at the event.

The creating may include using the social media ID to create at least one time stamped indication of affinity for the pre determined entity. The creating may include using the social media ID to tag a photograph of the entity. The method may also include linking the social media ID to a photograph of the pre determined entity. The method may also include using the social media ID to store a threshold amount of streaming audio time relating to the pre determined entity.

Historical purchase s of merchandise such as t shirts mugs or other performer associated paraphernalia may also indicate an affinity for the pre determined entity. In some embodiments using time stamps associated with such purchase s of merchandise to indicate affinity for the pre determined entity may provide deeper insight into the historical tendencies of users.

The method may further include querying the account history to determine whether the account history includes one or more parameters that indicate whether the social media ID is related to an automated entity or a human entity.

For example if it is determined that the social media ID includes less than a threshold number of friends on the account then this may be an indication that the social media ID is related to an automated entity. Alternatively if it is determined that the social media ID includes more than a threshold frequency of historic ticket purchases per unit time then it may be determined that the social media ID is related to an automated entity.

In yet another alternative embodiment if it is determined that the social media ID has purchased tickets for events in geographically disparate locations of historic ticket purchases and in some embodiments the events associated with such ticket purchases take place within a certain amount of time then this may be an indication that the social media ID is related to an automated entity. Yet another indication that the social media ID is related to an automated entity is that the entity may include a historic record of more or less than a threshold reaction time to a plurality of ticket offers.

Step shows receiving authorization from users to search information corresponding to the social media IDs or third party data source identification information. Authorization information is preferably logged with the third party and used in accordance with the third party s own terms and conditions. Such authorization may preferably include password information and or other information necessary to enable access to the participant s accounts.

Step shows preferably using the enabled access to the user s accounts obtaining relevant information from participants social media accounts or third party data source identification information. Such relevant information may include transactions posts downloads e mail addresses and any other suitable stored information on the participant s social media accounts or third party data source identification information.

In certain embodiments the user may restrict access to certain portions of the social media or third party data source identification information. For example the user may select areas of his social media or third party data source identification information to which the access is limited.

In certain embodiments access to the user s social media accounts or third party data source identification information may be obtained using cookies or tracking cookies to follow and store the user s internet navigation. As a general matter tracking cookies may be used to track internet users web browsing.

Such cookies or tracking cookies may preferably be used with the consent of the users. In view of the foregoing it should be noted that information may be obtained from users either by the users providing the information or by following user navigational behavior.

In instances where the user s navigation is being tracked certain embodiments may include offering the user predetermined event ticket purchase opportunities preferably at select times. Such opportunities may preferably be provided to the user during the user s navigation. Such opportunities may preferably correspond to the user experience during the user s navigation.

For example when a user navigates to Spotify and streams a performer s music and is in the process of listening to the music the embodiments may preferably in real time electronically notify the user of an event ticket purchase opportunity. Such notification may preferably allow the user to immediately access the event ticket purchase opportunity. Such notification may preferably be sent by e mail text using a website using an app associated with third party data source identification information and or posting to a user s social media account such as a Facebook account or other suitable account. Such a notification may be shown on a screen of a device transmitted as an audio advertisement in the app. browser or other software interface in which Spotify is being used. Such notification may be sent by multiple transmission channels. In certain embodiments such a transmission may preferably include a termination time whereby the ability to exercise the event ticket purchase opportunity may terminate at some pre determined time in the future following the transmission of the notification.

Step may also preferably including data mining the extracted information to determine participant tendencies such as affinity for one or more performing entities ticket purchasing frequency geographic location of ticket purchasing number of friends etc. Data mining may include using data from participant visits to web sites hosted by systems according to the invention. Data mining may include using data from participant visits to web sites hosted by systems in communication with systems according to the invention. Data mining may include using data from cookies such as tracking cookies or other such mechanisms to better understand participant web navigation and thereby to better understand participant tendencies. Data mining may include using data from third party data sources such as certain apps.

An example of data mining according to certain embodiments may include identifying tendencies of certain individuals over time. Once certain individuals have been identified by for example systems and methods of embodiments described herein such individuals may be targeted and offered ticket purchase opportunities ordinarily not available to non identified individuals. One component of such identification may be a dynamic register of time spent on a music streaming site listening to the music of a pre determined performer. When a particular individual is identified as listening to a performer on a music downloading site at a pre determined high threshold rate of music per unit time or more than a pre determined high threshold amount then such an individual may be offered ticket purchase opportunities for the performer typically not available to non identified individuals.

Another example of data mining may including using identified tendencies from third party data sources such as Songkick iTunes and or Amazon or other suitable third party data sources.

Step shows index generation. For each social media ID such index generation may include performing one or more algorithms to obtain a preferably dynamic index value. Such a dynamic index value may be updated in response to changes to the participant s social media ID which would preferably retrieve information from the social media on a real time or substantially real time basis . In some embodiments such a dynamic index value may preferably be adjusted in response to active index factors.

Such active index factors may include a determination that the participant has recently contributed to one or more charities on a list. In certain embodiments a determination that a participant has contributed to one or more charities on a list may be used to increase the index score of an interested participant with respect to a predetermined event and or entity. Such factors may include a determination that a participant has executed one or more tweet s or other social media action regarding an event. Tickets for such an event may be currently or imminently offered for sale. In certain embodiments a determination that a participant has executed one or more tweet regarding an event may be used to increase the index score of an interested participant. In certain embodiments the number of execution of tweets may obtain a proportional effect on the index score. More tweets or a higher rate of tweets per unit time or other suitable metric may preferably obtain a greater effect on the index score.

In some embodiments only non triggered tweets non reward based tweets or tweets in a non reward based channel may preferably obtain an effect on an index score. Non triggered tweets may include tweets that are not responsive to a previous in time promotional advertisement requesting tweets or similar behavior. Non reward based tweets may include tweets that are not responsive to a previous in time reward program that rewards users who execute such tweets. Tweets in a non reward based channel may include tweets executed in a channel that is not identified in a rewards program instituted by a performer brand or other suitable entity.

In certain embodiments such a dynamic index value may be updated periodically preferably on a system set schedule. In some embodiments the dynamic index value may be updated according to a user defined schedule. Such an index may preferably reflect a history of the participant with respect to the entity seeking the information.

Step shows filtering and sorting indexed social media IDs or third party data source identification information. Such filtering and sorting may be executed prior to offering for sale tickets to an event. The filtering of social media IDs or third party data source identification information may be performed to eliminate or limit purchasing rights of certain sub optimal ticket purchasers such as potential ticket resellers. As mentioned above such potential resellers may preferably provide automated software utilizing APIs or not utilizing APIs for attempting to purchase tickets. Such potential ticket resellers are typically less desirable because they may resell the tickets independent of consideration of the respective loyalty to the performer of the end purchasers. Instead such potential ticket resellers may only consider the end purchasers who can pay the highest price for the tickets instead of the end purchasers who can pay only a lower price but in view of their history may be considered more devoted fans of the performer.

The sorting of the indexed social media IDs may be performed to increase the likelihood that more dedicated loyal and or committed participants may be awarded tickets to a predetermined event.

In certain embodiments when tickets are actually offered for sale potential ticket purchasers with relatively higher index scores may receive higher priority in the form of a better chance of receiving ticket purchasing opportunities as well as more desirable tickets e.g. with more desirable locations. In some embodiments other incentives offered to loyal participants may include V.I.P. upgrades for tickets backstage access meet and greet opportunities discounted merchandise variable and preferred ticket pricing and or other incentives for higher index scores.

Step may query the available social media history to determine whether the potential ticket purchaser s social media history indicates that he or she has an affinity for the entity. The affinity may be determined by a finding of statements such as I love this entity or other such similar statements which juxtapose words of affection within a certain number of words of the entity.

Step also shows that the timeliness of the statement of affinity may also affect the index value and or the identity determination of the potential ticket purchaser. For example step shows that the timing of the statement of affinity may form part of the analysis to determine whether the potential ticket purchaser has a current and active affinity for the band or other suitable performer.

Step shows another possible factor for determining the level of the potential ticket purchaser interest in the entity such as a band. Specifically step shows determining whether the participant has tagged photos of the band as is known in the art of social media or photos related to the band. Such tagging preferably indicates a level of affinity for the band using a different metric than the heretofore described metrics.

Step shows yet another possible factor for determining the level of potential ticket purchaser interest in the band. Specifically step shows using the social media ID and or third party data sources that monitor fan activity and or identify fan trends to determine how often the participant has used his or her streaming audio account such as a streaming audio account on Spotify to listen to the band or how often the fan has visited a particular performers website. Alternatively a data source app which tracks user affinity may also be exploited for monitoring both the user affinity and or performance concert plans for performers in which the user has expressed an interest. Such an embodiment may preferably enable a system to provide ticket purchasing opportunities to select users. Furthermore such use of a streaming audio account or such multiple visits to a performers web site may indicate affinity for the performer at least because such use shows that the potential ticket purchaser has a history of listening to the band s music and or visiting the performer s website.

In some circumstances an API may be administered by automated software associated with a ticket buying entity such that the entity utilizes the API to purchase tickets. Such an API may be designed to interface with a ticket selling entity. Such automated software may be programmed to use a custom designed API to purchase either as many tickets as possible or the highest quality tickets or some other suitable parameter associated with ticket purchasing. Such automated software may be utilized by ticket resellers commonly referred to as scalpers or touts to increase the success rate with respect to quality and or quantity of purchasing tickets. Such automated software may increase the success rate of ticket purchasing at least because it is automated and provides quicker reaction time to queues delivered by ticket sellers and or timing of ticket sales.

In some embodiments a band may wish to populate selected preferably desirable seats for a concert with loyal participants. Accordingly such a band may award concert ticket purchasing priority to certain loyal participants based on identifiable indications of loyalty associated with the social media IDs of such loyal participants. As described above this process may be referred to herein as social queuing. These or other embodiments may include restricting automated accounts to purchasing less desirable seats. In certain embodiments a time delay in the queue may allow for the queue operator to operate and assign event ticket purchase opportunities.

Certain embodiments may not use a queue at all to assign event ticket purchase opportunities but rather may immediately assign ticket purchase opportunities in response to the characterization of the user based on information keyed to the user s social media ID or other suitable information.

Certain embodiments may use multiple queues to assign event ticket purchase opportunities. In certain embodiments each queue may be prioritized with respect to the other queues based on the index score of the members of the queue. In certain embodiments the members of the queue may be rated based on the timestamp of the attempted ticket purchase by the member of the queue and or in combination with the index score of the member.

Step shows the above described factor for determining the level of potential ticket purchaser interest in the band. Specifically step shows performing analysis of account history associated with social media ID to determine validity of ID e.g. is the social media ID associated with a human being or is it associated with automated software. In other words does the account activity associated with the social media ID indicate that the social media ID is controlled by automated software. Social queuing as disclosed herein may preferably be used to determine whether the social media ID and login associated therewith is controlled by automated software.

Step shows the exemplary step of allocating one point or other suitable quantum to a social media ID and or third party data source identifier when the social media account history indicates an expression of affinity for the band. Such expressions may include a finding of love or like within a pre determined number of words of the band. Alternative determinants of affinity may also be utilized.

Step also shows allocating an additional point or other suitable quantum to the social media ID and or third party data source identifier when the expression occurred within a threshold amount of time with respect to the date for which the tickets are being sold. For example if once a showing of affinity has been confirmed then the showing of affinity may be given an extra point or other suitable quantum if the showing of affinity occurred within six 6 months of the prospective date for the concert for which the tickets are being offered.

Step shows yet another exemplary step of allocating one point or other suitable quantum to the social media ID and or third party data source identifier when other history linked to the social media account such as a streaming audio account history e.g. a Spotify history indicates streaming audio account use of the band s music. Such an indicator may be binary e.g. if the person has listened to the band on his or her streaming audio account then the system allocates a point or the indicator may require traversal of a threshold e.g. if the person has listened to the band more than a threshold amount of times the threshold amount of times in one exemplary embodiment being spread over a pre determined period then the system allocates a point or other suitable quantum .

Step shows allocating a point or other suitable quantum to the social media ID and or third party data source identifier when the characteristics of the social media ID account history and or third party data source identifier history indicate human ownership and control of the social media ID account and or account associated with the third party data source identifier. For example if the identifier has less than a pre determined number of friends links than it may be assumed that the identifier is fraudulent and in fact is an identifier generated by automated software or is in some other way a computer related entity. In certain embodiments when an identifier has been determined to be associated with automated software or other computer related entity then such an identifier may preferably be relegated to purchase tickets in certain sub optimal seating areas or completely barred from purchasing tickets.

In certain embodiments friends identified in connection with a user s social media ID or other suitable identification information may preferably be tested to determine whether the friends are genuine or simulated friend accounts.

In certain embodiments entire communities of friendly accounts whether social media accounts or other third party data source accounts may be created to interact with one another in order to generate friends on the accounts. Such activity may be used to simulate human account attributes. It should be noted that such activity may also be measurable at least in part by measuring the commonality of the interactions between various members of groups. More specifically such commonality may be simulated and or detected by repeated communications between certain friends and or higher than average level per unit time of communications among certain groups of friends.

Step shows tabulating an index based at least in part on one or more of steps . Such tabulation may include adding all the points or other suitable quanta accrued in one or more of steps . Following the tabulation or other suitable calculation the sum of the points or other suitable quanta accrued may be compared to a threshold value. In certain embodiments if the sum of the points or other suitable quanta is equal to or greater than the threshold value then the identifier may be awarded priority ticket purchasing opportunities. Such priority ticket purchasing opportunities may include more optimal seating lower prices on seats first choice at certain seats and or first choice at ticket purchasing.

Step shows when the index value is above the pre determined threshold value tagging the social media ID as a priority ID with respect to the band. Step shows receiving logins for attempted purchases of concert tickets. Following step the system may sort the attempted purchase requests based on the presence or absence of priority IDs. It should be noted that the determination as to whether the logins include priority IDs should preferably be formulated at least some pre determined amount of time prior to receiving purchase requests. Accordingly for a party to receive priority treatment regarding ticket purchasing it may have to pre register at least some pre determined amount of time prior to when the tickets are offered for sale.

Step shows that for logins and attempted purchase requests pursuant thereto associated with priority IDs the system may place such attempted purchase requests in the priority ticket purchase queue. Step shows that for logins not associated with priority ID the system may place such logins and associated ticket purchase requests in general ticket purchase queue. Step shows that preferably following receipt of priority ticket purchase requests such requests are processed i.e. seats are sold to the priority ticket purchase requests on a first come first served basis.

In certain embodiments an automated ticket reseller may have simulated a human ticket purchaser too well. Such an automated ticket reseller may score higher than humanly possible in the formulation of an index. As such certain embodiments may indicate that when the index value is above a second pre determined threshold value the social media ID may be tagged as a non priority ID with respect to the band.

Event ticketing map shows that preferably following receipt of priority ticket purchase requests such requests are processed such that more desirable seats in section A are available to priority ticket purchase requests. Event ticketing map shows that less desirable seat in section B are available to non priority ticket purchase requests.

For example preferably illustrates that embodiments may preferably include multiple levels of priority as shown by the ellipses between and as well as the new path . Such levels may preferably be determined based on different threshold levels of index scoring. Step may preferably identify logins associated with recognizably non human purchasing agents and flag such logins for special treatment as described herein.

It should be noted that the various embodiments identified herein may be used together. It should be noted that the various embodiments identified herein may partially be used together such that one or more features identified in connection with a single embodiment may be used in connection with one or more other embodiments identified herein. It should be noted further that the order of steps of any method claim or description of method herein should be understood unless expressly stated to the contrary to not be limited to any particular order but rather should be understood to include any order that is both logically and grammatical correct.

Thus methods and apparatus for leveraging social queuing to facilitate event ticket distribution and to identify and or prevent ticket purchaser simulation have been provided. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention can be practiced in embodiments other than the described embodiments which are presented for purposes of illustration rather than of limitation and that the present invention is limited only by the claims that follow.

