---

title: Selective immunoproteasome inhibitors with non-peptide scaffolds
abstract: 

Methods and compounds for inhibiting the immunoproteasome, particularly, immunoproteasome inhibitors with non-peptide scaffolds, are described.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09586946&OS=09586946&RS=09586946
owner: UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY RESEARCH FOUNDATION
number: 09586946
owner_city: Lexington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160516
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 62 162 324 filed May 15 2015 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by this reference.

This invention was made with government support under RC1MH088480 and R01CA128903 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The presently disclosed subject matter relates to inhibition of the immunoproteasome. In particular the presently disclosed subject matter relates to immunoproteasome inhibitors with non peptide scaffolds.

Proteasome plays a central role in maintaining cellular homeostasis controlling the cell cycle removing misfolded proteins that can be toxic and regulating the immune system.This crucial protein degradation machinery has been implicated in multiple diseases such as Alzheimer s disease Huntington s disease HD inflammatory bowel diseases IBD autoimmune diseases multiple myeloma MM and other cancers.In particular proteasome has been recognized as a promising cancer target and the Food and Drug Administration FDA has approved proteasome inhibitors bortezomib Velcade in 2003 and carfilzomib Kyprolis in 2012 for the MM treatment. The FDA approvals of these proteasome inhibitors as chemotherapeutic agents have dramatically improved the therapeutic landscape for patients with MM.

Despite the remarkable successes of these proteasome inhibitors in the clinic intrinsic and acquired drug resistance remains a major clinical challenge. Inhibitors that are peptide backbone based also have relatively short half lives when administered to a subject. In addition these drugs have failed to provide clinical benefit to patients with solid cancers further highlighting the need for next generation of proteasome inhibitors.

There are two main proteasome subtypes the constitutive proteasome CP which is expressed in all eukaryotic cells and the immunoproteasome IP which is expressed in immune cells and can be induced in other cell types. Constitutive proteasome contains three catalytic subunits denoted as 31 32 and 35 whereas the three corresponding catalytic subunits of immunoproteasome are denoted as 31i 32i and 35i. The catalytic subunits responsible for the chymotrypsin like CT L activity 35 and 35i are thought to be most physiologically important and have been recognized as the key targets of bortezomib and carfilzomib.However these drugs have failed to achieve efficacy in patients with solid cancers despite strong indications of activity in preclinical animal models. The failure of these drugs has been attributed to their poor metabolic stability.Further recent reports revealed the importance of targeting the immunoproteasome catalytic subunit 35i in killing cancer cells.

Therefore it is highly desirable to identify unique compounds with non peptide scaffolds that can selectively inhibit the immunoproteasome 35i.

The presently disclosed subject matter meets some or all of the above identified needs as will become evident to those of ordinary skill in the art after a study of information provided in this document.

This Summary describes several embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter and in many cases lists variations and permutations of these embodiments. This Summary is merely exemplary of the numerous and varied embodiments. Mention of one or more representative features of a given embodiment is likewise exemplary. Such an embodiment can typically exist with or without the feature s mentioned likewise those features can be applied to other embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter whether listed in this Summary or not. To avoid excessive repetition this Summary does not list or suggest all possible combinations of such features.

As noted hereinabove it is highly desirable to identify unique immunoproteasome selective inhibitors with non peptide scaffolds.

Through combined virtual screening and experimental studies targeting the immunoproteasome the present inventors have identified a set of immunoproteasome inhibitors with diverse non peptide scaffolds. Some of the identified inhibitors have significant selectivity for the immunoproteasome over the constitutive proteasome. Unlike most of the currently available proteasome inhibitors these new inhibitors lacking electrophilic pharmacophores are not contemplated to form a covalent bond with proteasome after the binding. These non peptide scaffolds are useful for targeting the immunoproteasome.

The presently disclosed subject matter includes compounds compositions and methods useful for inhibiting immunoproteasome. The presently disclosed inhibitors are compounds have non peptide scaffolds. In some embodiments the compound has the structure of the formula I 

The presently disclosed subject matter includes compositions that include a compound as described herein. In some embodiments the composition includes a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In some embodiments the composition includes a compound of formula II or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In some embodiments the composition includes a compound selected from compounds 1 19 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof as set forth in Table 1B.

The presently disclosed subject matter includes methods of inhibiting immunoproteasome activity. In some embodiments a method of inhibiting immunoproteasome activity involves administering a compound or a composition as described herein. In some embodiments a method of inhibiting immunoproteasome activity involves administering a compound of formula I or a composition comprising a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In some embodiments a method of inhibiting immunoproteasome activity involves administering a compound of formula II or a composition comprising a compound of formula II or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In some embodiments a method of inhibiting immunoproteasome activity involves administering a compound selected from compounds 1 19 or a composition comprising a compound selected from compounds 1 19 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof as set forth herein.

The details of one or more embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter are set forth in this document. Modifications to embodiments described in this document and other embodiments will be evident to those of ordinary skill in the art after a study of the information provided in this document. The information provided in this document and particularly the specific details of the described exemplary embodiments is provided primarily for clearness of understanding and no unnecessary limitations are to be understood therefrom. In case of conflict the specification of this document including definitions will control.

The presently disclosed subject matter includes compounds compositions and methods useful for inhibiting immunoproteasome. The presently disclosed inhibitors are compounds have non peptide scaffolds. In some embodiments the compound has the structure of the formula I 

In some embodiments of the compound of formula I the compound has the structure of formula IB wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of

In some embodiments of the compound of formula I the compound has the structure of formula IB wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of

In some embodiments of the compound of formula I the compound has the structure of formula IB wherein Ris

As noted herein above the presently disclosed subject matter includes compositions that include a compound as described herein. In some embodiments the composition includes a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In some embodiments the composition includes a compound of formula II or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In some embodiments the composition includes a compound selected from compounds 1 19 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof 

Compositions of the presently disclosed subject matter can further include a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. As used herein the term pharmaceutically acceptable carrier refers to sterile aqueous or nonaqueous solutions dispersions suspensions or emulsions as well as sterile powders for reconstitution into sterile injectable solutions or dispersions just prior to use. Examples of suitable aqueous and nonaqueous carriers diluents solvents or vehicles include water ethanol polyols such as glycerol propylene glycol polyethylene glycol and the like carboxymethylcellulose and suitable mixtures thereof vegetable oils such as olive oil and injectable organic esters such as ethyl oleate. Proper fluidity can be maintained for example by the use of coating materials such as lecithin by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersions and by the use of surfactants. These compositions can also contain adjuvants such as preservatives wetting agents emulsifying agents and dispersing agents. Prevention of the action of microorganisms can be ensured by the inclusion of various antibacterial and antifungal agents such as paraben chlorobutanol phenol sorbic acid and the like. It can also be desirable to include isotonic agents such as sugars sodium chloride and the like. Prolonged absorption of the injectable pharmaceutical form can be brought about by the inclusion of agents such as aluminum monostearate and gelatin which delay absorption. Injectable depot forms are made by forming microencapsule matrices of the drug in biodegradable polymers such as polylactide polyglycolide poly orthoesters and poly anhydrides . Depending upon the ratio of drug to polymer and the nature of the particular polymer employed the rate of drug release can be controlled. Depot injectable formulations are also prepared by entrapping the drug in liposomes or microemulsions which are compatible with body tissues. The injectable formulations can be sterilized for example by filtration through a bacterial retaining filter or by incorporating sterilizing agents in the form of sterile solid compositions which can be dissolved or dispersed in sterile water or other sterile injectable media just prior to use. Suitable inert carriers can include sugars such as lactose. Desirably at least 95 by weight of the particles of the active ingredient have an effective particle size in the range of 0.01 to 10 micrometers.

As noted herein above the presently disclosed subject matter includes methods of inhibiting immunoproteasome activity and methods of selectively inhibit the immunoproteasome 35i. In some embodiments a method of inhibiting immunoproteasome activity involves administering a compound or a composition as described herein. In some embodiments a method of inhibiting immunoproteasome activity involves administering a compound of formula I or a composition comprising a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In some embodiments a method of inhibiting immunoproteasome activity involves administering a compound of formula II or a composition comprising a compound of formula II or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In some embodiments a method of inhibiting immunoproteasome activity involves administering a compound selected from compounds 1 19 or a composition comprising a compound selected from compounds 1 19 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof as set forth herein.

Unless otherwise indicated the term administering is inclusive of all means known to those of ordinary skill in the art for providing a preparation to a subject including administration by inhalation nasal administration topical administration intravaginal administration ophthalmic administration intraaural administration intracerebral administration intravitreous administration intracameral administration posterior sub Tenon administration posterior juxtascleral administration subretinal administration suprachoroidal administration cell based administration or production rectal administration and parenteral administration including injectable such as intravenous administration intra arterial administration intramuscular administration and or subcutaneous administration. Administration can be continuous or intermittent. A preparation can be administered therapeutically that is administered to treat an existing condition of interest. A preparation can be administered prophylactically that is administered for prevention of a condition of interest.

In some embodiments a subject will be administered an effective amount of at least one compound and or composition provided in the present disclosure. In this respect the term effective amount refers to an amount that is sufficient to achieve the desired result or to have an effect on an undesired condition. For example a therapeutically effective amount refers to an amount that is sufficient to achieve the desired therapeutic result or to have an effect on undesired symptoms but is generally insufficient to cause adverse side effects. The specific therapeutically effective dose level for any particular patient will depend upon a variety of factors including the disorder being treated and the severity of the disorder the specific composition employed the age body weight general health sex and diet of the patient the time of administration the route of administration the rate of excretion of the specific compound employed the duration of the treatment drugs used in combination or coincidental with the specific compound employed and like factors well known in the medical arts. For example it is well within the skill of the art to start doses of a compound at levels lower than those required to achieve the desired therapeutic effect and to gradually increase the dosage until the desired effect is achieved. If desired the effective daily dose can be divided into multiple doses for purposes of administration. Consequently single dose compositions can contain such amounts or submultiples thereof to make up the daily dose. The dosage can be adjusted by the individual physician in the event of any contraindications. Dosage can vary and can be administered in one or more dose administrations daily for one or several days. Guidance can be found in the literature for appropriate dosages for given classes of pharmaceutical products. In further various aspects a preparation can be administered in a prophylactically effective amount that is an amount effective for prevention of a disease or condition.

In some embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter the inhibitor is administered in vitro or in a cultured cell.

The terms subject or subject in need thereof refer to a target of administration which optionally displays symptoms related to a particular disease pathological condition disorder or the like. The subject of the herein disclosed methods can be a vertebrate such as a mammal a fish a bird a reptile or an amphibian. Thus the subject of the herein disclosed methods can be a human non human primate horse pig rabbit dog sheep goat cow cat guinea pig or rodent. The term does not denote a particular age or sex. Thus adult and newborn subjects as well as fetuses whether male or female are intended to be covered. A patient refers to a subject afflicted with a disease or disorder. The term subject includes human and veterinary subjects.

In some embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter the immunoproteasome inhibition can be useful for treating a cancer or other condition such as Alzheimer s disease Huntington s disease HD inflammatory bowel diseases IBD autoimmune diseases or multiple myeloma MM .

As used herein the terms treatment or treating relate to any treatment of a condition including but not limited to prophylactic treatment to prevent development or reduce severity of a disorder. The terms treatment or treating include 1 preventing a condition from occurring in a subject who may be predisposed to the 2 inhibiting the condition i.e. arresting their development 3 ameliorating or relieving the symptoms of the condition and 4 causing regression of the condition.

As will be recognized by one of ordinary skill in the art the term inhibiting or inhibition does not refer to the ability to completely inactivate all target biological activity in all cases. Rather the skilled artisan will understand that the term inhibiting refers to decreasing biological activity of a target. Such decrease in biological activity can be determined relative to a control wherein an inhibitor is not administered and or placed in contact with the target. For example in some embodiments a decrease in activity relative to a control can be about a 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 or 100 decrease.

While the terms used herein are believed to be well understood by those of ordinary skill in the art certain definitions are set forth to facilitate explanation of the presently disclosed subject matter.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as is commonly understood by one of skill in the art to which the invention s belong.

All patents patent applications published applications and publications GenBank sequences databases websites and other published materials referred to throughout the entire disclosure herein unless noted otherwise are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Where reference is made to a URL or other such identifier or address it understood that such identifiers can change and particular information on the internet can come and go but equivalent information can be found by searching the internet. Reference thereto evidences the availability and public dissemination of such information.

As used herein the abbreviations for any protective groups amino acids and other compounds are unless indicated otherwise in accord with their common usage recognized abbreviations or the IUPAC IUB Commission on Biochemical Nomenclature see Biochem. 1972 11 9 1726 1732 .

Although any methods devices and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the presently disclosed subject matter representative methods devices and materials are described herein.

Following long standing patent law convention the terms a an and the refer to one or more when used in this application including the claims. Thus for example reference to a cell includes a plurality of such cells and so forth.

Unless otherwise indicated all numbers expressing quantities of ingredients properties such as reaction conditions and so forth used in the specification and claims are to be understood as being modified in all instances by the term about . Accordingly unless indicated to the contrary the numerical parameters set forth in this specification and claims are approximations that can vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the presently disclosed subject matter.

As used herein the term about when referring to a value or to an amount of mass weight time volume concentration or percentage is meant to encompass variations of in some embodiments 20 in some embodiments 10 in some embodiments 5 in some embodiments 1 in some embodiments 0.5 and in some embodiments 0.1 from the specified amount as such variations are appropriate to perform the disclosed method.

As used herein ranges can be expressed as from about one particular value and or to about another particular value. It is also understood that there are a number of values disclosed herein and that each value is also herein disclosed as about that particular value in addition to the value itself. For example if the value 10 is disclosed then about 10 is also disclosed. It is also understood that each unit between two particular units are also disclosed. For example if 10 and 15 are disclosed then 11 12 13 and 14 are also disclosed.

The presently disclosed subject matter is further illustrated by the following specific but non limiting examples. The following examples may include compilations of data that are representative of data gathered at various times during the course of development and experimentation related to the present invention.

Disclosed herein are non peptide scaffolds of selective inhibitors of the immunoproteasome. Exemplary inhibitors are set forth in these Examples.

As disclosed herein exemplary compounds including diverse non peptide scaffolds which were identified through combined virtual screening and experimental studies targeting the catalytic subunit 35i which is also known as LMP7 .

The virtual screening was based on the present inventors previously modeled three dimensional 3D structure of the immunoproteasome and performed on a compound library at Genomics Research Institute GM the University of Cincinnati UC . The UC GRI compound library containing structural information for about 300 000 compounds was provided by Procter Gamble P G and belonged to a consortium including the University of Kentucky as a member.

The virtual screening procedure utilized to screen the chemical compound library is essentially similar to that which the present inventors used to identify small molecule inhibitors of other proteins.The 300 000 compounds were first screened by using a structure based virtual screening approach leading to identification of top 25 000 compounds. The subsequent energy minimization and Molecular Mechanics Generalized Born Surface Area MM GBSA binding energy calculations using Amberg soft wareled to identification of the top 1000 compounds. Further structural analysis on possible interactions with key amino acid residues including Thr1 Ser21 Ser27 Gly47 Ala49 and Asp324 led to selection of the top 130 compounds that could inhibit the immunoproteasome.

The computationally selected 13 compounds were tested for their inhibitory activity against the CT L activity of the immunoproteasome. The identified active compounds were also tested for their inhibitory activity against the CT L activity of the constitutive proteasome. For the initial activity screening the selected compounds were dissolved in DMSO and used at a concentration of 5 M. Epoxomicin 1 tM which reached the 100 inhibition was used as a positive control. 20S human immunoproteasome and constitutive proteasome Boston Biochem were 2 fold diluted in an assay buffer 20 mM Tris Cl pH 8.0 0.5 mM EDTA 0.035 SDS .

Specifically selected compounds were preincubated with 50 ng well of the immunoproteasome or constitutive proteasome in a 96 well plate at room temperature for 13 min. 100 M of Suc LLVY AMC a fluorogenic peptide substrate for the CT L activity was then added to the wells. Fluorogenic signals of the free AMC Ex 360 Em 460 were recorded for 90 min. The initial reaction velocities RFU min of each compound were calculated as a percentage of the positive control. All enzyme activity assays were carried out in triplicate.

According to the activity assays nine of the tested compounds 1 19 showing the significant inhibition against the immunoproteasome are listed in Table 1A for their activity data and depicted in Table 1B for their molecular structures. The hit rate of the virtual screening was 10 . Based on the activity data in Table 1A compounds 1 3 at 5 M inhibited the CT L activity of the immuno proteasome by about 36 85 whereas these compounds at 5 inhibited the constitutive proteasome by only 2 20 .

This indicates that compounds 1 3 are highly selective inhibitors for the immunoproteasome. In particular compounds 1 and 3 at 5 M inhibited the immunoproteasome by 85 62 respectively. These most potent two compounds along with compound 2 were tested further for the dose dependent inhibition in order to determine their ICvalues Table 1A against the immunoproteasome. As shown in Table 1A the ICvalues for compounds 1 to 3 are 1.7 22 and 4.9 respectively. These compounds particularly compounds 1 and 3 are promising immunoproteasome inhibitors with non peptide scaffolds.

Depicted in and are the energy minimized structures of the immunoproteasome binding with compounds 1 and 3. As shown in compound 1 has favorable hydrophilic interactions with amino acid residues Thr1 Ser21 Ser27 and Gly47 including strong hydrogen bonds with the NH group of Ser21 backbone hydroxyl group of Ser27 side chain and carbonyl oxygen of Gly47 backbone. As shown in compound 3 has favorable hydrophilic interactions with Ser21 Ser27 Ala49 and Asp324 including hydrogen bonds with the NH group of Ser21 backbone and carboxylate oxygen of Asp324 side chain. Notably the H . . . O distance with the hydroxyl oxygen of Ser27 side chain is as long as 3.6 in the energy minimized structure.

Further molecular dynamics MD simulation was carried out to examine the dynamically stable binding structures using the same computational protocol starting from the energy minimized structures as used in previous computational studies on immunoproteasome ligand binding.For each inhibitor compound 1 or 3 binding with immunoproteasome a stable MD trajectory was obtained for 1 ns and 1000 snapshots were saved one snapshot per ps for structural analysis. Based on the MD trajectory with compound 3 the H . . . O distance with the hydroxyl oxygen of Ser27 side chain is shorter than 2.5 for 15 of the snapshots. So when 2.5 is used as the cutoff for the H . . . O distance in the hydrogen bonding it can be said that the hydroxyl oxygen of Ser27 side chain has 15 hydrogen bond with compound 3 as indicated in and 93 hydrogen bond with compound 1 as indicated in .

Notably Ser21 and Ser27 are common residues of the immuno proteasome that have favorable interactions with both compounds 1 and 3. Ser21 and Ser27 in the immunoproteasome become Thr21 and Ala27 respectively in the constitutive proteasome. The other residues of the immunoproteasome interacting with compounds 1 and 3 are essentially the same as the corresponding ones of the constitutive proteasome. So the selectivity of these new inhibitors for the immunoproteasome over the constitutive proteasome is likely associated with the favorable interaction between the inhibitors and the hydroxyl group of Ser27 side chain in the immunoproteasome. For the purpose of verification of this point we also modeled constitutive proteasome binding with compounds 1 and 3 in the same way as we did for immunoproteasome with the same compounds and we concluded that each compound binds with both proteins in the similar orientation but without a hydrogen bond with Ala27 of constitutive proteasome because Ala27 does not have a hydroxyl group on the side chain data not shown .

Unlike currently available proteasome inhibitors in clinic these new immunoproteasome inhibitors are non peptide scaffold based. In addition these non peptide scaffold based compounds are contemplated to reversibly inhibit proteasomes due to the lack of reactive electrophilic pharmacophors.

The present inventors contemplated additional potent and selective inhibitors designed to enhance the favorable interactions with all of the amino acid residues mentioned above. Particularly enhancement of the favorable interaction with Ser27 of the immunoproteasome is expected to improve both the potency and selectivity of the immunoproteasome inhibitors.

The present inventors contemplate unique compounds that make use of the non peptide scaffolds of the 19 exemplary compounds identified in this Example. Such compounds can be synthesized and tested to improve the inhibitory activity and selectivity. Thus the present inventors contemplate use of compounds including these non peptide scaffolds as immunoproteasome inhibitors for use as therapeutic agents.

Unique candidate inhibitors were synthesized and tested for their inhibitory activity. The tested candidate inhibitors are set forth in Table 2 Table 3 and Table 4.

All publications patents and patent applications mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication patent or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference including the references set forth in the following list 

It will be understood that various details of the presently disclosed subject matter can be changed without departing from the scope of the subject matter disclosed herein. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation.

