---

title: System and method for diagnosis and treatment
abstract: This invention relates the use of cortisol blockers (glucocorticoid receptor [GR] antagonists) for the treating or preventing treatment resistant prostate cancer, treating or preventing neoplasia, and treating or preventing infection related to acute or chronic injury or disease.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09636351&OS=09636351&RS=09636351
owner: Pop Test Oncology Limited Liability Company
number: 09636351
owner_city: Cliffside Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160411
---
This application is a Divisional application of U.S. Ser. No. 14 802 060 filed Jul. 17 2015 which is a Continuation in Part of U.S. Ser. No. 14 100 714 filed Dec. 9 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 114 117 issued Aug. 25 2015 which is a Divisional application of U.S. Ser. No. 13 364 651 filed Feb. 2 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 658 128 issued Feb. 25 2014 which claims benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 462 492 filed Feb. 3 2011 U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 463 212 filed Feb. 14 2011 U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 465 703 filed Mar. 23 2011 U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 518 248 filed May 3 2011 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 519 323 filed May 20 2011 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein in their entirety.

This invention relates the use of cortisol blockers e.g. glucocorticoid receptor GR antagonists for the treating or preventing treatment resistant prostate cancer treating or preventing neoplasia and treating or preventing infection related to acute or chronic injury or disease.

ORG 34517 is one of a class of therapeutic agents designed to block the glucorticoid receptor GR acting as an antagonist for endogenous cortisol. Its primary developmental pathway has been as a treatment for neuropsychiatric diseases that are characterized by dysregulated signaling in the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis often with higher than normal circulating levels of endogenous cortisol. Of particular note are the phase 2 clinical trials that have been completed for the treatment of psychotic depression. Other possible uses in this disease category which are under investigation include post traumatic stress disorder weight gain in patients requiring long term anti psychotic medication hospital delirium of the elderly etc.

The endogenous glucocorticoids are steroids predominantly produced in the adrenal cortex. Glucocorticoids are important steroids for intermediary metabolism immune musculoskeletal connective tissue and brain function. The main glucocorticoid in the body is cortisol. The production and secretion of cortisol is governed by a complex and highly efficient system that includes the hypothalamus pituitary and the adrenal glands i.e. hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis HPA . Cortisol secretion has a circadian release rhythm with peak values in early morning and trough values at midnight.

The production and secretion of the most important glucocorticoid cortisol is governed by a complex and highly efficient system that includes the hypothalamus pituitary and the adrenal glands i.e. hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis. Cortisol secretion is regulated by the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus into a circadian release rhythm. The timing is synchronized with the solar day by dark light shifts which normally reflect the habitual sleep wake pattern. Therefore in healthy persons the cortisol secretion has a 24 hour circadian pattern with peak serum levels in the early morning 3 6 hours after onset of sleep and nadir levels around midnight. Physical and psychological stressors also activate cortisol secretion. Changed patterns of serum cortisol levels have been observed in connection with abnormal adrenocorticotropic hormone ACTH levels clinical depression psychological stress and physiological stressors such as hypoglycemia illness fever trauma surgery fear pain physical exertion or temperature extremes. Cortisol levels and responsiveness may also differ from normal for elderly individuals and in individuals with autism or Asperger s syndrome.

Glucocorticoids GCs such as in humans cortisol perform several important functions. These include participating in the regulation of carbohydrate protein and fat metabolism by signaling the liver to make glucose and glycogen the adipose tissues to release lipids and fatty acids into the bloodstream and the skeletal muscles to release proteins or amino acids into the bloodstream. GCs also decrease bone formation.

GCs also regulate the body s inflammatory response as well. GCs are part of the feedback mechanism in the immune system that inhibits immune activity i.e. inflammation . GCs cause their effects by binding to the GCR. The activated GCR complex in turn up regulates the expression of anti inflammatory proteins in the nucleus a process known as transactivation and represses the expression of pro inflammatory proteins in the cytosol by preventing the translocation of other transcription factors from the cytosol into the nucleus transrepression Rhen T and Cidlowski J A. NEJM 2005 353 1711 23 .

GCR antagonist therapy is helpful in patients with abnormally high levels of cortisol but maintained circadian rhythm over responsiveness to normal levels or high night time cortisol levels as a feature of disrupted circadian rhythm. Such altered cortisol physiology may relate to acute or chronic stress e.g. related to physical or psychological trauma or as an age related change in elderly individuals. Successful therapeutic use of such agents is thus often dependent on determining circadian cortisol levels either peak levels during the day e.g. at noon or measurements taken every 4 hours or 6 hours over a 24 hour period . This combined system of salivary cortisol quantification as an enabling device for its paired GCR antagonist will identify individuals for whom GCR antagonist therapy has a benefit.

The glucocorticoid receptor GR is expressed at high levels in some normal tissues but not in others. Likewise malignant tumors of diverse types and sites have variable GR expression. When present in normal or tumor benign or malignant tissues this GR expression may be variously located in some or all of their cellular sub compartments 1. stem cells 2. progenitor so called transit amplifying cell descendents of activated stem cells and 3. differentiated progeny of activated stem or progenitor cells.

The present invention therefore relates to the use of GR antagonists e.g. ORG 34517 a relatively specific GR antagonist RU486 a non specific GR antagonist and others optionally in combination with at least one other agent for treating or preventing treatment resistant prostate cancer treating or preventing neoplasia and or treating or preventing infection related to acute or chronic injury or disease.

The invention provides a pharmaceutical composition for treating or preventing treatment resistant prostate cancer comprising a therapeutically effective amounts of at least one androgen receptor antagonist selected from the group consisting of ARN 509 flutamide nilutamide enzalutamide bicalutamide ketonazole abiraterone abiraterone acetate orteronel finasteride dutasteride bexlosteride izonsteride turosteride episteride dexamethasone prednisone leuprolide goserelin triptorelin histrelin estrogen MDV3100 Cyproterone acetate Spironolactone flutamide hydroxyflutamide and combinations thereof b therapeutically effective amounts of at least one GCR glucocorticoid receptor antagonist selected from the group consisting of ORG 34517 11 substituted phenyl estra 4 9 diene derivatives and 11 substituted phenyl estra 4 9 diene derivatives of formula I

The invention provides a kit for treating or preventing treatment resistant prostate cancer comprising a therapeutically effective amounts of at least one GCR glucocorticoid receptor antagonist selected from the group consisting of ORG 34517 11 substituted phenyl estra 4 9 diene derivatives and 11 substituted phenyl estra 4 9 diene derivatives of formula I

The invention provides a product of manufacture for treating or preventing treatment resistant prostate cancer comprising a blister package a lidded blister a blister card or packet a clamshell an intravenous IV package IV packette or IV container a tray or a shrink wrap comprising the pharmaceutical composition of claim and instructions for use of the pharmaceutical composition for treating or preventing treatment resistant prostate cancer.

The invention provides a method for treating or preventing treatment resistant prostate cancer in a patient in need of such treatment or prevention comprising administering to said patient therapeutically effective amounts of each of a therapeutically effective amounts of at least one androgen receptor antagonist selected from the group consisting of ARN 509 flutamide nilutamide enzalutamide bicalutamide ketonazole abiraterone abiraterone acetate orteronel finasteride dutasteride bexlosteride izonsteride turosteride episteride dexamethasone prednisone leuprolide goserelin triptorelin histrelin estrogen MDV3100 Cyproterone acetate Spironolactone flutamide hydroxyflutamide and combinations thereof and b therapeutically effective amounts of at least one GCR glucocorticoid receptor antagonist selected from the group consisting of ORG 34517 11 substituted phenyl estra 4 9 diene derivatives and 11 substituted phenyl estra 4 9 diene derivatives of formula I

The invention provides a method wherein the GCR glucocorticoid receptor antagonist is ORG 34517. The invention provides a method wherein ORG34517 is administered as an agent which directly effects tumor growth independent of other administered treatment modalities for palliation remission or cure. The invention provides a method wherein the ORG 34517 given systemically through oral or intravenous routes. The invention provides a method wherein the ORG 34517 is targeted to tumor by intra arterial infusion to reduce systemic side effects of GR blockade. The invention provides a method wherein the ORG 34517 is given to accomplish cure or remission of tumor. The invention provides a method wherein the ORG 34517 is given to accomplish reduction of tumor burden to enhance effectiveness of subsequent surgical resection. The invention provides a method wherein the ORG 34517 is given to accomplish reduction of tumor burden to make an unresectable tumor resectable.

The invention provides a pharmaceutical composition for treating neoplasia in a patient in need thereof comprising a therapeutically effective amounts of at least one PARP inhibitor selected from the group consisting of 4 3 4 cyclopropanecarbonyl piperazine 1 carbonyl 4 fluorophenyl met hyl 2H phthalazin 1 one Compound B i.e. Olaparib 4 iodo 3 nitrobenzamide Iniparib 2 2R 2 methylpyrrolidin 2 yl 1H benzimidazole 4 carboxamide ABT 888 8 Fluoro 2 4 methylamino methyl phenyl 1 3 4 5 tetrahydro 6H azepino 5 4 3 cd indol 6 one AG014699 4 methoxy carbazole CEP 9722 2 4 3S piperidin 3 yl phenyl indazole 7 carboxamide hydrochloride MK 4827 and 3 aminobenzamide Iniparib Olaparib Rucaparib Veliparib CEP 9722 MK4827 BMN 673 pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof and combinations thereof b therapeutically effective amounts of at least one GCR glucocorticoid receptor antagonist selected from the group consisting of ORG 34517 11 substituted phenyl estra 4 9 diene derivatives and 11 substituted phenyl estra 4 9 diene derivatives of formula I

The invention provides a kit for treating or preventing neoplasia comprising a therapeutically effective amounts of at least one PARP inhibitor selected from the group consisting of 4 3 4 cyclopropanecarbonyl piperazine 1 carbonyl 4 fluorophenyl met hyl 2H phthalazin 1 one Compound B i.e. Olaparib 4 iodo 3 nitrobenzamide Iniparib 2 2R 2 methylpyrrolidin 2 yl 1H benzimidazole 4 carboxamide ABT 888 8 Fluoro 2 4 methylamino methyl phenyl 1 3 4 5 tetrahydro 6H azepino 5 4 3 cd indol 6 one AG014699 4 methoxy carbazole CEP 9722 2 4 3S piperidin 3 yl phenyl indazole 7 carboxamide hydrochloride MK 4827 and 3 aminobenzamide Iniparib Olaparib Rucaparib Veliparib CEP 9722 MK4827 BMN 673 pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof and combinations thereof and b therapeutically effective amounts of at least one GCR glucocorticoid receptor antagonist selected from the group consisting of ORG 34517 11 substituted phenyl estra 4 9 diene derivatives and 11 substituted phenyl estra 4 9 diene derivatives of formula I

The invention provides a method for treating or preventing neoplasia in a patient in need of such treatment or prevention comprising administering to said patient a therapeutically effective amounts of at least one PARP inhibitor selected from the group consisting of 4 3 4 cyclopropanecarbonyl piperazine 1 carbonyl 4 fluorophenyl met hyl 2H phthalazin 1 one Compound B i.e. Olaparib 4 iodo 3 nitrobenzamide Iniparib 2 2R 2 methylpyrrolidin 2 yl 1H benzimidazole 4 carboxamide ABT 888 8 Fluoro 2 4 methylamino methyl phenyl 1 3 4 5 tetrahydro 6H azepino 5 4 3 cd indol 6 one AG014699 4 methoxy carbazole CEP 9722 2 4 3S piperidin 3 yl phenyl indazole 7 carboxamide hydrochloride MK 4827 and 3 aminobenzamide Iniparib Olaparib Rucaparib Veliparib CEP 9722 MK4827 BMN 673 pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof and combinations thereof b therapeutically effective amounts of at least one GCR glucocorticoid receptor antagonist selected from the group consisting of ORG 34517 11 substituted phenyl estra 4 9 diene derivatives and 11 substituted phenyl estra 4 9 diene derivatives of formula I

The invention provides a pharmaceutical composition for treating or preventing infection related to acute or chronic injury or disease in a patient in need thereof comprising a therapeutically effective amounts of at least one GCR glucocorticoid receptor antagonist selected from the group consisting of ORG 34517 11 substituted phenyl estra 4 9 diene derivatives and 11 substituted phenyl estra 4 9 diene derivatives of formula I

The invention provides a method for treating or preventing infection related to acute or chronic injury or disease in a patient in need of such treatment comprising administering to said animal or human therapeutically effective amounts of each of a therapeutically effective amounts of at least one GCR glucocorticoid receptor antagonist selected from the group consisting of ORG 34517 11 substituted phenyl estra 4 9 diene derivatives and 11 substituted phenyl estra 4 9 diene derivatives of formula I

The invention provides a method for treating or preventing infection related to acute or chronic injury or disease wherein said method comprises administering to a patient in need of such therapy at least one glucocorticoid receptor antagonist in a therapeutically effective amount.

The invention provides a method wherein the at least one glucocorticoid receptor antagonist is in a pharmaceutical preparation.

The invention provides a method wherein the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist is selected from the group consisting of ORG 34517 11 substituted phenyl estra 4 9 diene derivatives and 11 substituted phenyl estra 4 9 diene derivatives of formula I

The invention provides a method wherein the acute or chronic injury or disease is selected from the group consisting of vascular events stroke cardiac arrest acute limb infarction accident battle field trauma traumatic limb hip brain injuries post surgical trauma major orthopedic thoracic abdominal neurological surgeries.

The invention provides a kit for treating or preventing infection related to acute or chronic injury or disease comprising at least one blister package a lidded blister a blister card or packet a clamshell an intravenous IV package IV packette or IV container a tray or a shrink wrap comprising the pharmaceutical composition and instructions for use of the pharmaceutical composition for treating or preventing infection related to acute or chronic injury or disease.

The invention provides a product of manufacture for treating or preventing infection related to acute or chronic injury or disease comprising a blister package a lidded blister a blister card or packet a clamshell an intravenous IV package IV packette or IV container a tray or a shrink wrap comprising a pharmaceutical composition comprising the pharmaceutical composition and instructions for use of the pharmaceutical composition for treating or preventing infection related to acute or chronic injury or disease.

The invention provides a pharmaceutical composition for treating or preventing impaired short term memory performance in a patient in need thereof comprising a therapeutically effective amounts of at least one GCR glucocorticoid receptor antagonist selected from the group consisting of ORG 34517 11 substituted phenyl estra 4 9 diene derivatives and 11 substituted phenyl estra 4 9 diene derivatives of formula I

The invention provides a method for treating or preventing impaired short term memory performance in a patient in need thereof comprising administering to said animal or human therapeutically effective amounts of each of a therapeutically effective amounts of at least one GCR glucocorticoid receptor antagonist selected from the group consisting of ORG 34517 11 substituted phenyl estra 4 9 diene derivatives and 11 substituted phenyl estra 4 9 diene derivatives of formula I

The invention provides a kit for treating or preventing infection related to acute or chronic injury or disease comprising at least one blister package a lidded blister a blister card or packet a clamshell an intravenous IV package IV packette or IV container a tray or a shrink wrap comprising the pharmaceutical composition and instructions for use of the pharmaceutical composition for treating or preventing infection related to acute or chronic injury or disease.

The invention provides a product of manufacture for treating or preventing infection related to acute or chronic injury or disease comprising a blister package a lidded blister a blister card or packet a clamshell an intravenous IV package IV packette or IV container a tray or a shrink wrap comprising a pharmaceutical composition comprising the pharmaceutical composition and instructions for use of the pharmaceutical composition for treating or preventing infection related to acute or chronic injury or disease.

The invention provides for the use of the compositions of the invention for the production of a medicament for treating the indications as set forth herein.

In accordance with a further embodiment the present invention provides a use of the pharmaceutical compositions described above an amount effective for use in a medicament and most preferably for use as a medicament for treating a disease or disorder in a subject.

In accordance with yet another embodiment the present invention provides a use of the pharmaceutical compositions described above and at least one additional therapeutic agent in an amount effective for use in a medicament and most preferably for use as a medicament for treating a disease or disorder associated with disease in a subject.

The invention is directed to the use of for example a glucocorticoid receptor antagonist optionally in combination with another agent for treating or preventing treatment resistant prostate cancer treating or preventing neoplasia and or treating or preventing infection related to acute or chronic injury or disease.

As used herein the term effective amount refers to the amount of a therapy that is sufficient to result in the prevention of the development recurrence or onset of a disease or condition such as neoplasia or infection and one or more symptoms thereof to enhance or improve the prophylactic effect s of another therapy reduce the severity the duration of a disease or condition such as neoplasia or infection ameliorate one or more symptoms of a disease or condition such as neoplasia or infection prevent the advancement of a disease or condition such as neoplasia or infection cause regression of a disease or condition such as neoplasia or infection and or enhance or improve the therapeutic effect s of another therapy.

As used herein the phrase pharmaceutically acceptable means approved by a regulatory agency of the federal or a state government or listed in the U.S. Pharmacopeia European Pharmacopeia or other generally recognized pharmacopeia for use in animals and more particularly in humans.

As used herein the terms prevent preventing and prevention in the context of the administration of a therapy to a subject refer to the prevention or inhibition of the recurrence onset and or development of a disease or condition such as neoplasia or infection or a symptom thereof in a subject resulting from the administration of a therapy e.g. a prophylactic or therapeutic agent or a combination of therapies e.g. a combination of prophylactic or therapeutic agents .

As used herein the terms subject and patient are used interchangeably. As used herein the term patient refers to an animal preferably a mammal such as a non primate e.g. cows pigs horses cats dogs rats etc. and a primate e.g. monkey and human and most preferably a human. In some embodiments the subject is a non human animal such as a farm animal e.g. a horse pig or cow or a pet e.g. a dog or cat . In a specific embodiment the subject is an elderly human. In another embodiment the subject is a human adult. In another embodiment the subject is a human child. In yet another embodiment the subject is a human infant.

As used herein the terms therapies and therapy can refer to any method s composition s and or agent s that can be used in the prevention treatment and or management of a disease or condition such as neoplasia or infection or one or more symptoms thereof.

As used herein the terms treat treatment and treating in the context of the administration of a therapy to a subject refer to the reduction or inhibition of the progression and or duration of a disease or condition such as neoplasia or infection the reduction or amelioration of the severity of a disease or condition such as neoplasia or infection and or the amelioration of one or more symptoms thereof resulting from the administration of one or more therapies.

As used herein the term about when referring to a value or to an amount of mass weight time volume concentration or percentage is meant to encompass variations of in some embodiments 20 in some embodiments 10 in some embodiments 5 in some embodiments 1 in some embodiments 0.5 and in some embodiments 0.1 from the specified amount as such variations are appropriate to perform the disclosed method.

As used herein ranges can be expressed as from about one particular value and or to about another particular value. It is also understood that there are a number of values disclosed herein and that each value is also herein disclosed as about that particular value in addition to the value itself. For example if the value 10 is disclosed then about 10 is also disclosed. It is also understood that each unit between two particular units are also disclosed. For example if 10 and 15 are disclosed then 11 12 13 and 14 are also disclosed.

The term androgenergic antagonist refers to agents that can prevent androgens from expressing their biological effects on responsive tissues. These agents alter the androgen pathway by blocking the appropriate receptors competing for binding sites on the cell s surface or affecting androgen production. Androgenergic antagonist can be prescribed to treat an array of diseases and disorders. In men these agents are most frequently used to treat prostate cancer. In women these agents are used to decrease levels of male hormones causing symptoms of hyperandrogenism. Androgenergic antagonist present in the environment have become a topic of concern. Many industrial chemicals pesticides and insecticides exhibit antiandrogenic effects. Non limiting examples of the androgenergic antagonist include but not limited to allylestrenol oxendolone osaterone acetate bicalutamide steroidal anti androgergic agents medroxyprogesterone MPA cyproterone cyproterone acetate CPA dienogest flutamide nilutamide spironolactone 5alpha reductase inhibitors dutasteride finasteride salts thereof gold nanoparticles thereof combinations thereof and the like. In some embodiments of the present invention examples of the androgenergic antagonist includes but not limited to a gold nanoparticle of alpha bicalutamide or a gold nanoparticle of beta bicalutamide.

The glucocorticoid receptor is widely distributed and expressed in many cultured cell lines and the control of gene expression by glucocorticoids therefore has been widely studied as a model for transcriptional regulation. A number of glucocorticoid responsive transcription units including mouse mammary tumor virus MMTV Ringold et al. 1975 Parks et al. 1974 mouse and human metallothionein Eager et al. 1981 Karin et al. 1980 rat alphaM globulin Kurtz et al. 1977 and rat and human growth hormone Spindler et al. 1982 Evans et al. 1982 Robins et al. 1982 genes have been identified. DNA sequences mediating transcriptional stimulation of several of these genes have been localized. For MMTV these sequences are discrete genomic regions upstream of the transcriptional start site which appear to exert their actions independently of orientation and position Chandler et al. 1983 Ostrowski et al. 1984 . The steroid receptor complex appears to bind to these regulatory sequences and purified receptor has been used to define the specific binding sites Govinda et al. 1982 Scheidereit et al. 1983 Pfahl 1982 Payvar et al. 1983 . The ability of the glucocorticoid responsive element GRE to alter its position and orientation yet still maintain promoter inducibility suggests that it resembles the class of cis acting regulatory sequences termed enhancers Chandler et al. 1983 . First discovered in viruses and subsequently in cellular genes these sequences are necessary for efficient transcription in vivo Laimonis et al. 1982 Benoist et al. 1981 Baerji et al. 1983 . It has been suggested that enhancers are recognized by trans acting factors that mediate regulatory effects by tissue specific transcriptional control. Although the enhancer factors have not been well characterized the glucocorticoid receptor may serve as a paradigm for these putative gene activator proteins.

It is generally accepted that the unliganded glucocorticoid receptor GR resides in the cytoplasm and that hormone activation leads both to nuclear accumulation and gene activation. Gasc J. M. Baulieu E. E. 1987 in Steroid Hormone Receptors Their Intracellular Localisation ed. Clark C. R. Ellis Horwood Ltd. Chichester England pp. 233 250 Beato M. 1989 Cell 56 335 344 Carson Jurica M. A. Schrader W. T. O Malley B. W. 1990 Endocr. Rev. 11 201 220 Gronemeyer H. 1993 in Steroid Hormone Action ed. Parker M. G. Oxford University Press New York pp. 94 117 Tsai M. J. O Malley B. W. 1994 Annu. Rev. Biochem. 63 451 486 Akner G. Wikstrom A. C. Gustafsson J. A. 1995 J. Steroid Biochem. Mol. Biol. 52 1 16 and references therein. However the mechanisms involved in nuclear translocation and targeting of steroid receptors to regulatory sites in chromatin have been poorly understood. It has previously been difficult to discriminate between the ability of a given receptor mutant or a given receptor ligand combination to participate in the separate processes of receptor activation nuclear trans location sequence specific binding and promoter activation.

The glucocorticoid receptor GR is expressed in a subset of both ERalpha positive and negative human breast cancers as well as in some ovarian cancers. In vitro and in vivo experiments suggest that activation of the GR in ER negative pre malignant breast epithelial and cancer cells initiates cell survival pathways under stress conditions that normally induce significant cell death e.g. chemotherapy radiation growth factor deprivation .

The glucocorticoid receptor GR is present in glucocorticoid responsive cells where it resides in the cytosol in an inactive state until it is stimulated by an agonist. Upon stimulation the glucocorticoid receptor translocates to the cell nucleus where it specifically interacts with DNA and or protein s and regulates transcription in a glucocorticoid responsive manner. Two examples of proteins that interact with the glucocorticoid receptor are the transcription factors API and NF B. Such interactions result in inhibition of API and NF B mediated transcription and are believed to be responsible for some of the anti inflammatory activity of endogenously administered glucocorticoids. In addition glucocorticoids may also exert physiologic effects independent of nuclear transcription. Biologically relevant glucocorticoid receptor agonists include cortisol and corticosterone. Many synthetic glucocorticoid receptor agonists exist including dexamethasone prednisone and prednisolone.

The composition and methods of the invention may make use of glucocorticoid receptor antagonists. Glucocorticoid receptor antagonists bind to the receptor and prevent glucocorticoid receptor agonists from binding and eliciting GR mediated events including transcription. RU486 is an example of a non selective glucocorticoid receptor antagonist.

Compounds having high glucocorticoid receptor binding affinity and in addition high in vivo anti glucocorticoid activity while having for example low androgenic and progestagenic activities are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 011 025 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. ORG 34517 is an example of a compound with high glucocorticoid receptor binding affinity while having low androgenic and progestagenic activities.

The compounds lack appreciable affinity for mineralocorticoid progesterone estrogen and androgen receptors indicating a clean side effect profile.

The 11 substituted phenyl estra 4 9 diene derivatives of the invention can be used in the prevention and treatment of glucocorticoid dependent diseases or symptoms like Cushing syndrome diabetes glaucoma sleep disturbances depression anxiety atherosclerosis hypertension adiposity osteoporosis and withdrawal symptoms from narcotics and their mixtures.

Preferred compounds according to this invention are 11 substituted phenyl estra 4 9 diene derivatives wherein the heteroatom s are is O the 5 or 6 membered ring being optionally substituted with one or more fluorine atoms R1 is H and X is O or NOH. More preferred compounds are 11 substituted phenyl estra 4 9 diene derivatives wherein A is a residue of a 5 membered ring. Particularly preferred are 11 substituted phenyl estra 4 9 diene derivatives wherein A contains 2 heteroatoms being O.

Especially preferred are 11 substituted phenyl estra 4 9 diene derivatives wherein R2 is methyl and the interrupted line represents a bond.

The most preferred compound is 11 17 11 1 3 benzodioxol 5 yl 17 hydroxy 17 1 propynyl estra 4 9 dien 3 one ORG 34517 .

The term halogen means a fluorine chlorine bromine or iodine atom. Fluorine is the preferred halogen in ring A and when R2 is halogen chlorine is preferred.

The terms 1 4C alkyl and 1 8C alkyl as used in the definitions of R1 and R2 respectively mean alkyl groups having 1 4 and 1 8 carbon atoms respectively for example methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl sec butyl tert butyl pentyl neopentyl hexyl octyl.

The 11 substituted phenyl estra 4 9 diene derivatives according to the present invention can be prepared by a process wherein a compound of formula II

The derivatives of formula II may be prepared according to well known methods described and used for the preparation of steroids.

A suitable process for the preparation of derivatives of formula II starts from estra 4 9 diene 3 17 dione. Selective reduction of the 17 keto group to 17 OH 17 H e.g. with sodium borohydride followed by protection of the 3 keto group e.g. by ketalisation with ethyleneglycol triethylorthoformate and p toluenesulfonic acid and oxidation of the 17 hydroxy group e.g. with pyridinium chlorochromate provides the 3 ketoprotected estra 5 10 9 11 diene 3 17 dione. Alkynylation at the 17 position yielding a 17 alkynyl 17 OH derivative followed by epoxidation of the 5 10 double bond e.g. with hydrogen peroxide trifluoroacetophenone and pyridine in dichloromethane according to the method as disclosed in European patent application EP 0 298 020 provides the 3 ketoprotected 5 10 epoxy 17 alkynyl 17 hydroxy estr 9 11 ene 3 one.

Subsequently compounds of formula II are formed from this epoxide derivative for example by reaction with an organometallic compound of the formula

Suitable protective groups and methods to remove these groups are known in the art for example from T. W. Green Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis Wiley N Y 1981 . Particularly suitable protective groups for the protection of keto groups are acetals e.g. 1 2 ethylene ketal.

The specificity of ORG 34517 for GR blockade without significant cross binding to other related steroidal hormone receptors such as those for estrogen and progesterone eliminates the likelihood of significant toxicities and side effects. Indeed none were identified in all the substantial phase I and phase II clinical trials that already have been performed with the compound. Because the drug is envisioned as being used in limited dosing over time coordinated with the intermittent dosing strategies typical for chemotherapeutic agents the GR blockade also would not lead to significant alteration of HPA axis functioning with rapid restitution of the HPA axis to baseline following dosing.

The compositions and methods of the invention may also make use of one or more androgen receptor antagonists such as in a combination with the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist of the invention. For example the invention provides with at least one glucocorticoid receptor antagonist in combination with at least one androgen receptor antagonist such as for example ARN 509 4 7 6 Cyano 5 trifluoromethyl 3 pyridinyl 8 oxo 6 thioxo 5 7 diazaspiro 3.4 oct 5 yl 2 fluoro N methylbenzamide . ARN 509 is a novel androgen receptor AR antagonist for the treatment of castration resistant prostate cancer CRPC . ARN 509 inhibits AR nuclear translocation and AR binding to androgen response elements and unlike bicalutamide does not exhibit agonist properties in the context of AR overexpression.

Another exemplary antiadrogen is bicalutamide which has the chemical name R S N 4 cyano 3 4 fluorophenylsulfonyl 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 3 triflu oromethyl propanamide Flutamide brand name Eulexin nilutamide brand names Anandron and Nilandron and bicalutamide brand name Casodex are nonsteroidal pure antiandrogens 5 alpha reductase inhibitors such as finasteride brand names Proscar and Propecia dutasteride brand name Avodart bexlosteride izonsteride turosteride and epristeride are antiandrogenic as they prevent the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone DHT Spironolactone brand names Aldactone and Spirotone a synthetic 17 spirolactone corticosteroid Cyproterone acetate brand names Androcur Climen Diane 35 and Ginette 35 is a synthetic steroid a potent antiandrogen that also possesses progestational properties. Hydroxyflutamide.

In some embodiments steroidal or nonsteroidal androgen receptor antagonists include but are not limited to flutamide hydroxyflutamide bicalutamide nilutamide or hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase inhibitor.

In one embodiment the androgen receptor antagonist is enzalutamide marketed as Xtandi Astellas Pharma US Inc. also known as and referred to herein as MDV3100 having the chemical name 4 3 4 cyano 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl 5 5 dimethyl 4 oxo 2 thioxoimida zolidin 1 yl 2 fluoro N methylbenzamide.

The compositions and methods of the invention may also make use of one or more androgen receptor antagonist such as in a combination with the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist of the invention. The androgen receptor antagonist may be selected from the group consisting of for example flutamide nilutamide enzalutamide bicalutamide ketonazole abiraterone abiraterone acetate orteronel finasteride dutasteride bexlosteride izonsteride turosteride episteride dexamethasone prednisone leuprolide goserelin triptorelin histrelin estrogen MDV3100 Cyproterone acetate Spironolactone flutamide hydroxyflutamide and combinations thereof.

The selective androgen receptor AR antagonists embodied herein have utility for numerous conditions and diseases such as but not limited to male contraception treatment of a variety of male hormone related conditions such as hypersexuality and sexual deviation treatment of conditions including benign prostatic hyperplasia acne vugaris androgenetic alopecia and hirsutism purposefully preventing or counteracting masculinisation in the case of transsexual women undergoing sex reassignment therapy an antineoplastic agent and palliative adjuvant or neoadjuvant hormonal therapy in prostate cancer and decreasing the incidence of halting or causing a regression of prostate cancer.

Prostate cancer is one of the most common cancers in men around the world and is one of the leading causes of cancer death in men in the United States. The androgen receptor antagonist drugs such as flutamide and bicalutamide were originally designed to avoid the side effects of HT but androgen agonism was observed for hydroxyfluamide the active form of flutamide and bicalutamide. The compositions of the present invention are combinations of GCRAs and for example androgen receptor antagonists which can be used to alleviate any condition associated with inappropriate activation of the androgen receptor. In addition to prostate cancer other examples of such conditions include acne hirsutism seborrhea excess sebum and alopecia. In order to exhibit the therapeutic properties described above the compounds need to be administered in a quantity sufficient to inhibit activation of the androgen receptor. In a typical embodiment the compounds are administered topically which is especially appropriate for hirsutism alopecia acne and hyperseborhhea. Androgens having a profound effect on hair loss stimulate hair growth by prolonging the growth phase of the hair cycle anagen and increasing follicle size. Hair growth on the scalp does not require androgens but paradoxically androgens are necessary for balding on the scalp in genetically predisposed individuals androgenic alopecia where there is a progressive decline in the duration of anagen and in hair follicle size. The compositions of the invention may also be used topically to decrease seborrhea production and more specifically to alleviate hyperseborrhoea oily skin which can be used topically alleviate acne.

The compositions and methods of the invention may also make use of one or more PARP inhibitors such as in a combination with the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist of the invention. The poly ADP ribose polymerase PARP is also known as poly ADP ribose synthase and poly ADP ribosyltransferase. PARP catalyzes the formation of mono and poly ADP ribose polymers which can attach to cellular proteins as well as to itself and thereby modify the activities of those proteins. The enzyme plays a role in regulation of transcription cell proliferation and chromatin remodeling see D amours et al. Biochem. 342 249268 1999 .

Poly ADP ribose polymerase has an essential role in facilitating DNA repair controlling RNA transcription mediating cell death and regulating immune response. These actions make PARP inhibitors targets for a broad spectrum of disorders. Virag L. et al. Pharmacol. Rev. 2002 54 3 375 429 . In various preclinical cancer models and human clinical trials PARP inhibitors have been shown to potentiate radiation and chemotherapy by increasing apoptosis of cancer cells limiting tumor growth decreasing metastasis and prolonging the survival of tumor bearing subjects. WO 2007 084532 Donawho C. K. et al. Clin Cancer Res 2007 13 9 2728 37 Kummar S. et al. J Clin Oncol. 2009 27 16 2705 11 .

PARP comprises an N terminal DNA binding domain an automodification domain and a C terminal catalytic domain. Various cellular proteins interact with PARP. The N terminal DNA binding domain contains two zinc finger motifs. Transcription enhancer factor 1 TEF 1 retinoid X receptor DNA polymerase X ray repair cross complementing factor 1 XRCC1 and PARP itself interact with PARP in this domain. The automodification domain contains a BRCT motif one of the protein protein interaction modules. This motif is originally found in the C terminus of BRCA1 breast cancer susceptibility protein 1 and is present in various proteins related to DNA repair recombination and cell cycle checkpoint control. POU homeodomain containing octamer transcription factor 1 Oct 1 YinYang YY 1 and ubiquitinconjugating enzyme 9 ubc9 could interact with this BRCT motif in PARP.

More than 15 members of the PARP family of genes are present in the mammalian genome. PARP family proteins and poly ADP ribose glycohydrolase PARG which degrades poly ADP ribose to ADP ribose are involved in a variety of cell regulatory functions including DNA damage response and transcriptional regulation and associated with carcinogenesis and the biology of cancer.

Several PARP family proteins have been identified. Tankyrase has been found as an interacting protein of telomere regulatory factor 1 TRF 1 and is involved in telomere regulation. Vault PARP VPARP is a component in the vault complex which acts as a nuclear cytoplasmic transporter. PARP 2 PARP 3 and 2 3 7 8 tetrachlorodibenzo p dioxin inducible PARP TiPARP have also been identified. Therefore poly ADP ribose metabolism could be related to a variety of cell regulatory functions.

A member of this gene family is PARP 1. The PARP 1 gene product is expressed at high levels in the nuclei of cells and is dependent upon DNA damage for activation. It is believed that PARP 1 binds to DNA single or double stranded breaks DSBs through an amino terminal DNA binding domain. The binding activates the carboxy terminal catalytic domain and results in the formation of polymers of ADP ribose on target molecules. PARP 1 is itself a target of poly ADP ribosylation by virtue of a centrally located automodification domain. The ribosylation of PARP 1 causes dissociation of the PARP 1 molecules from the DNA. The entire process of binding ribosylation and dissociation occurs very rapidly. It has been suggested that this transient binding of PARP 1 to sites of DNA damage results in the recruitment of DNA repair machinery or may act to suppress the recombination long enough for the recruitment of repair machinery.

The source of ADP ribose for the PARP reaction is nicotinamide adenosine dinucleotide NAD . NAD is synthesized in cells from cellular ATP stores and thus high levels of activation of PARP activity can rapidly lead to depletion of cellular energy stores. It has been demonstrated that induction of PARP activity can lead to cell death that is correlated with depletion of cellular NAD and ATP pools. PARP activity is induced in many instances of oxidative stress or during inflammation. For example during reperfusion of ischemic tissues reactive nitric oxide is generated and nitric oxide results in the generation of additional reactive oxygen species including hydrogen peroxide peroxynitrate and hydroxyl radical. These latter species can directly damage DNA and the resulting damage induces activation of PARP activity. Frequently it appears that sufficient activation of PARP activity occurs such that the cellular energy stores are depleted and the cell dies. A similar mechanism is believed to operate during inflammation when endothelial cells and pro inflammatory cells synthesize nitric oxide which results in oxidative DNA damage in surrounding cells and the subsequent activation of PARP activity. The cell death that results from PARP activation is believed to be a major contributing factor in the extent of tissue damage that results from ischemia reperfusion injury or from inflammation.

PARP poly ADP ribose polymerase participates in a variety of DNA related functions including cell proliferation differentiation apoptosis DNA repair and also effects on telomere length and chromosome stability d Adda di Fagagna et al. Nature Gen. 23 1 76 80 1999 . Oxidative stress induced overactivation of PARP consumes NAD and consequently ATP culminating in cell dysfunction or necrosis. This cellular suicide mechanism has been implicated in the pathomechanism of cancer stroke myocardial ischemia diabetes diabetes associated cardiovascular dysfunction shock traumatic central nervous system injury arthritis colitis allergic encephalomyelitis and various other forms of inflammation. PARP has also been shown to associate with and regulate the function of several transcription factors.

Suitable PARP inhibitors for use in the compositions and methods of the invention include but are not limited to 4 3 4 cyclopropanecarbonyl piperazine 1 carbonyl 4 fluorophenyl met hyl 2H phthalazin 1 one Compound B i.e. Olaparib 4 iodo 3 nitrobenzamide Iniparib 2 2R 2 methylpyrrolidin 2 yl 1H benzimidazole 4 carboxamide ABT 888 8 Fluoro 2 4 methylamino methyl phenyl 1 3 4 5 tetrahydro 6H azepino 5 4 3 cd indol 6 one AG014699 4 methoxy carbazole CEP 9722 2 4 3S piperidin 3 yl phenyl indazole 7 carboxamide hydrochloride MK 4827 and 3 aminobenzamide or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

In some embodiments the Glucocorticoid receptor antagonists e.g. an ORG 34517 composition described herein is administered in combination with a poly ADP ribose polymerase PARP inhibitor e.g. BSI 201 Olaparib AZD 2281 ABT 888 AG014699 CEP 9722 MK 4827 KU 0059436 AZD2281 LT 673 3 aminobenzamide . Other example PARP inhibitors include i.e. pharmacological inhibitors of the enzyme poly ADP ribose polymerase PARP . Suitable PARP inhibitors may be iniparib olaparib rucaparib veliparib or CEP 9722. Current PARP inhibitors in clinical trials include Iniparib Sanofi Olaparib AstraZeneca Rucaparib Pfizer Veliparib Abbott CEP 9722 Cephalon MK4827 Merck BMN 673 Biomarin among others.

The invention provides a method for treating and or preventing treatment resistant prostate cancer in a patient in need of such treatment and or prevention comprising administering to the patient therapeutically effective amounts of a GCR glucocorticoid receptor antagonist as exemplified herein in combination with for example a neoplasia treating agent including for example an androgen receptor AR antagonist. Prostate cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer in men and the second leading cause of death from cancer in North American and European males. New therapeutic approaches are needed to prevent and treat advanced and metastatic prostate cancer. Nutritional factors particularly high intake of protein and calcium as well as metabolic syndrome are known to modify prostate cancer risk and progression but the molecular mechanisms linking nutrition to prostate cancer are unknown. There are also links between prostate cancer and bone metabolism. Osteocalcin OC which encodes a vitamin K dependent hormone predominantly produced by osteoblasts osteocytes in bone which functions to regulate energy metabolism is also ectopically expressed by some prostate cancers that have a propensity to metastasize to bone. Polymorphisms in OC are also associated with prostate cancer progression. Recent evidence has also identified a correlation between the bone transcription factor Runx2 and advanced stages of prostate and breast cancer as evidenced by the effects of depletion of Runx2 by RNA interference to inhibit migration and invasive properties of the cells and prevent metastatic bone disease. It is possible that OC secreted by bone may directly target prostate cancer cells. Finally androgen deprivation therapy is the principal medical therapy for prostate cancer but androgen ablation often becomes ineffective in controlling prostate cancer progression and castration resistant metastatic disease particularly to bone becomes incurable. There is growing evidence for the presence of a putative membrane androgen sensing receptor that mediates the rapid non genomic effects of androgens which also might be involved in prostate cancer growth and metastasis. Regardless clues to possible new molecular targets to regulate prostate cancer growth and progression may be discovered from a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying nutritional risk factors OC effects and androgen resistance in prostate cancer.

The invention provides a method for treating neoplasia in a patient in need of such treatment comprising administering to the patient therapeutically effective amounts of a GCR glucocorticoid receptor antagonist as exemplified herein in combination with for example a neoplasia treating agent. The term neoplasia as used herein refers also to tumors proliferative diseases malignancies and their metastases. Examples for cancer diseases are Adenocarcinomas of the head and neck including salivary glands and oral cavity gastrointestinal tract including pharynx esophagus stomach small intestine large intestine anus lung liver including hepatocellular carcinoma cholangiocarcinoma and mixed tumors extrahepatic biliary tract and gallbladder pancreas including ductal and acinar types genitourinary tracts ovaries fallopian tubes endometrium cervix and vagina ureters urinary bladder testicles epididymis prostate and skin adnexa squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck including salivary glands and oral cavity gastrointestinal tract including pharynx esophagus anus lung intrahepatic and extrahepatic biliary tree including gallbladder pancreas genitourinary tracts including endometrium cervix vagina ureters urinary bladder testicles epididymis prostate and skin adnexa germ cell tumors including malignant teratoma embryonal carcinoma struma ovarii yolk sac tumor seminoma choriocarcinoma sarcomas including leiomyosarcomas rhabdomyosarcomas angiosarcomas hemangioendotheliomas liposarcomas chondosarcomas fibrosarcomas Ewing sarcoma malignant nerve sheathe tumors alveolar soft part sarcomas clear cell sarcomas synovial sarcoma osteosarcomas malignancies of the central nervous system including astrocytomas oligodendroglioma glioblastoma medulloblastoma salivary gland malignancies including adenoid cystic carcinoma adenosquamous carcinoma clear cell carcinoma cystadenocarcinoma mucoepidermoid carcinoma mixed type carcinomas including hepatocellular cholangiocarcinomas carcinosarcomas mixed adenoneurondocrine carcinomas adenosquamous carcinomas hepatocellular carcinoma blastic malignancies including hepatoblastoma neuroblastoma ganglioneuroblastoma nephroblastoma renal cell carcinomas neuroendocrine carcinomas thyroid carcinomas including papillary follicular medullary anaplastic carcinomas parathyroid carcinomas pituitary gland carcinomas adrenal gland carcinomas including adrenocortical carcinomas pheochromocytoma and combinations thereof.

The invention provides a method for treating or preventing infection related to acute or chronic injury or disease in a patient in need of such treatment comprising administering to the patient therapeutically effective amounts of a GCR glucocorticoid receptor antagonist as exemplified herein in combination with for example another agent. In particular the invention has application to minimize life threatening complications of persons suffering injury to cells tissues or organs resulting from burns shock stroke heart attack or other physical events including complications from surgical or clinical interventions as a consequence of trauma. Injured soldiers on the battlefield or civilians at a natural disaster site or injured from a terrorist attack are situations where such treatment may be useful.

The invention applies to protecting preserving or stabilizing key organs such as the heart and brain other neuronal tissues and cells renal tissue lung tissue muscle tissue liver and other tissues of the body.

In one form the invention provides a method of reducing injury to the cells tissues or organs of a body following trauma by administering a composition to the body following trauma including i a glucocorticoid receptor antagonist and optionally ii another pharmaceutical agent.

The term trauma is used herein in its broadest sense and refers to a serious or critical injury wound or shock to the body. Trauma may be caused by unexpected physical damage or injury to the body as a result of for example transport or industrial accidents birth surgery heart attack stroke burns complications due to surgery or other medical interventions etc. Trauma may result from injury to a body both in a hospital or out of hospital. Trauma is often associated with trauma medicine practiced in hospital such as in hospital emergency rooms during emergency transport or at out of hospital environments where a trauma has occurred such as domestic or industrial accidents transport accidents the battlefield and terrorist attacks. In many cases trauma therapy may also include resuscitation therapy. Exemplary injuries include for example burns shock stroke heart attack or other physical events including complications from surgical or clinical interventions as a consequence of trauma. Injured soldiers on the battlefield or civilians at a natural disaster site or injured from a terrorist attack are situations where such treatment may be useful.

The invention provides a method for treating or preventing infection related to acute or chronic injury or disease wherein said method comprises administering to a patient in need of such therapy at least one glucocorticoid receptor antagonist in a therapeutically effective amount.

The activities of GR agonists and their alteration of cellular functions are variable depending on complex intracellular molecular signaling that are cell and tissue specific. Amongst the cells that have glucocorticoid receptors are stem and progenitor cells of all tissues and organs of the body.

Thus binding of such molecules to normative in tissue stem cells and the progeny of these stem cells so called transit amplifying progenitor cells results in variable cell and tissue specific effects inhibitory or enhancing of stem and progenitor cell functions including activation proliferation migration and differentiation all of which are dependent on the tissue organ in question.

GR antagonists such as for example ORG34517 will thus block the effects of GR agonists in tissue specific fashion enhancing stem progenitor cell functioning in some inhibiting it in others. GR antagonists will have beneficial effects in specific clinical settings where regenerative medicine approaches to disease and wound healing may be of use including enhanced post transplant functioning of autologous stem cell transplants dependent on tissue of origin and or target tissue .

Attenuation of the peri surgical effects of catabolic stress hormones related to surgical or other physical traumas e.g. combat wounds wherein the acute or chronic injury or disease is selected from the group consisting of vascular events stroke cardiac arrest acute limb infarction accident battle field trauma traumatic limb hip brain injuries post surgical trauma major orthopedic thoracic abdominal neurological surgeries.

Systemic GR blockade will be inappropriate but direct application of ORG34517 to site of injury wounding either topically for example to prevent wound dehiscence or by direct injection or intravascular infusion for visceral organ injuries will be beneficial.

The invention provides a method for treating or preventing CNS injury in a patient in need of such treatment comprising administering to the patient therapeutically effective amounts of a GCR glucocorticoid receptor antagonist as exemplified herein in combination with for example another agent. Conditions suitable for treatment according to this invention include for example seizure disorders pain syndromes neurodegenerative diseases including motor neuron diseases myelopathies radiculopathies and disorders of the sympathetic nervous system dementias cerebrovascular conditions movement disorders brain trauma cranial nerve disorders neuropsychiatric disorders and other disease neuropathies including viral associated neuropathies diabetes associated neuropathies Guillian Barre syndrome dysproteinemias transthyretin induced neuropathies and carpal tunnel syndrome .

As used herein seizure disorders include complex partial seizures simple partial seizures partial seizures with secondary generalization generalized seizures including absence grand mal tonic clonic status epilepticus tonic atonic myoclonic neonatal and infantile spasms drug induced seizures trauma induced seizures and febrile seizures and additional specific epilepsy syndromes such as juvenile myoclonic epilepsy Lennox Gastaut mesial temporal lobe epilepsy nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy progressive epilepsy with mental retardation and progressive myoclonic epilepsy as well as seizures associated with CNS mass lesions.

Pain syndromes include for example headaches e.g. migraine tension and cluster acute pain chronic pain neuropathic pain nociceptive pain central pain and inflammatory pain drug induced neuropathic pain causalgia complex regional pain syndrome types I and II and reflex sympathetic dystrophy RSDS .

Neurodegenerative diseases include Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s Disease multiple sclerosis Huntington s Disease ALS spinal muscular atrophy muscular dystrophies prion related diseases cerebellar ataxia Friedrich s ataxia SCA Wilson s disease RP Gullain Bane syndrome Adrenoleukodystrophy Menke s Sx cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts CADASIL Charcot Marie Tooth diseases neurofibromatosis von Hippel Lindau Fragile X spastic paraplegia tuberous sclerosis complex Wardenburg syndrome spinal motor atrophies Tay Sachs Sandoff disease familial spastic paraplegia myelopathies radiculopathies encephalopathies associated with trauma radiation drugs and infection and disorders of the sympathetic nervous system e.g. Shy Drager familial dysautonomia diabetic neuropathy drug induced and alcoholic neuropathy .

Dementias include Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s disease Pick s disease fronto temporal dementia vascular dementia normal pressure hydrocephalus Huntington s disease and MCI.

Cerebrovascular conditions amenable to treatment according to the present invention include cerebrovascular disease and strokes e.g. thrombotic embolic thromboembolic hemorrhagic including AVM and berry aneurysms venoconstrictive and venous .

Included in movement disorders are Parkinson s disease dystonias benign essential tremor tardive dystonia tardive dyskinesia and Tourette s syndrome.

Brain trauma as used herein includes traumatic brain and spinal cord injuries as well as brain injuries from radiation.

Cranial nerve disorders include trigeminal neuropathy trigeminal neuralgia Menier s syndrome glossopharangela neuralgia dysphagia dysphonia cranial nerve palsies and Bell s palsy.

Neuropsychiatric disorders include panic syndrome general anxiety disorder phobic syndromes of all types mania manic depressive illness hypomania unipolar depression depression stress disorders PTSD somatoform disorders personality disorders psychosis and schizophrenia and drug dependence addiction e.g. alcohol psychostimulants e.g. crack cocaine speed meth opioids and nicotine and drug induced psychiatric disorders.

Other disease neuropathies that may be treated with the compositions and methods described herein include Guillain Barre diabetes associated neuropathies dysproteinemias transthyretin induced neuropathies neuropathy associated with HIV herpes viruses including herpes zoster or other viral infection neuropathy associated with Lyme disease carpal tunnel syndrome tarsal tunnel syndrome amyloid induced neuropathies leprous neuropathy Bell s palsy compression neuropathies sarcoidosis induced neuropathy polyneuritis cranialis heavy metal induced neuropathy transition metal induced neuropathy drug induced neuropathy post meningitis syndrome post polio syndrome prion diseases and radiation associated neuropathic syndromes.

Other diseases amenable to treatment with the present invention include fatigue syndromes e.g. chronic fatigue syndrome and fibromyalgia ataxic syndromes olivopontoicerebellar degeneration striatonigral degeneration and axonic brain damage.

The present invention is particularly useful in the treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders such as depression agitation anxiety seizure disorders such as grand mal seizures status epilepticus migraine pain treatment and prophylaxis Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s disease and traumatic brain and spinal cord injury.

Also the higher doses enabled by the present invention are expected to be of particular importance for dementias including Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s disease and vascular dementia pain syndromes including headaches and migraines seizure disorders movement disorders and brain trauma.

Furthermore the ease of use and convenience of a dosage form provided developed to be delivered at once per day or less frequent administration at a therapeutically effective quantity from the onset of therapy is of value in the treatment of dementias including Alzheimer s disease and Parkinson s disease seizure disorders pain syndromes and cerebrovascular conditions.

Situational stress can lead to elevated circulating levels of cortisol which in turn can impair short term memory formation. For example student exam periods in high school college as well as graduate school and professional certification and licensing exams can lead to such stress and therefore to a self defeating cortisol associated deficit in learning that may impair formation of study based memories and lead to poorer than expected test results. The present invention is particularly useful in the treatment and or prevention of short term memory performance by for example single or sequential dosing with a glucocorticoid blocking compound or composition of the invention before and during the examination study period that will prevent suppression of short term memory formation and improve study and subsequent examination performance.

The inventive pharmaceutical composition may additionally contain one or more auxiliary substances in order to further increase its immunomodulatory effect for example ORG 34517 Myvotum in combination with immune system regulators e.g. IL 1R antagonist for prevention of post traumatic or disease associated systemic immunosuppression at high risk for bacterial infections e.g. wound infections pneumonia colitis pyelonephritis hepatic and splenic abscesses and sepsis. New compositions and methods are provided which advantageously employ compounds having a newly defined immune modulating function or which have the ability to mimic that immune modulating function or a combination of such compounds. For the purposes of the present disclosure the terms immune mimic immune modulating immune modulator immune modulation immune control immune inhibition immune suppressor and the like refer in most instances to the newly identified cancer cell growth i.e. proliferation inhibitory effect of the secretory immune system i.e. dimeric polymeric IgA and pentameric IgM that is mediated by a newly identified Poly Ig receptor or Poly Ig like receptor also classified as an Fc like receptor and not to the usual antibody antigen recognition based immune function of the immune system. In this context the terms immune modulation or immune enhancement refer especially to the modulation or enhancement of these cell growth inhibitory immunoglobulins of the secretory immune system. The term immune mimic refers to a substance e.g. tamoxifen that can function in a similar manner to an immunoglobulin inhibitor of cell growth. In some instances however reference is also made herein to natural immune inhibition immune enhancer immune modulator immune system immune therapy and immune response and the like in which the conventional meanings of those terms are intended and the context so indicates especially when prior art methods compounds and compositions are described. Hereinafter an indication has been made in appropriate instances whether a conventional definition or the new meaning or both is intended. A synergistic action of the compounds of the invention e.g. ORG 34517 or a derivative thereof as defined according to the present invention and of an auxiliary substance which may be optionally contained in the inventive pharmaceutical composition as described above is preferably achieved thereby. Depending on the various types of auxiliary substances various mechanisms can come into consideration in this respect. In general it is possible to use as auxiliary substance any agent that influences the immune system in the manner of a danger signal LPS GP96 etc. or cytokines such as GM CSF which allow for an immune response produced by the immune stimulating adjuvant according to the invention to be enhanced and or influenced in a targeted manner. Particularly preferred auxiliary substances are cytokines such as monokines lymphokines interleukins or chemokines that further promote the innate immune response such as IL 1 IL 1 receptor antagonist IL 2 IL 3 IL 4 IL 5 IL 6 IL 7 IL 8 IL 9 IL 10 IL 12 IL 13 IL 14 IL 15 IL 16 IL 17 IL 18 IL 19 IL 20 IL 21 IL 22 IL 23 IL 24 IL 25 IL 26 IL 27 IL 28 IL 29 IL 30 IL 31 IL 32 IL 33 INF alpha IFN beta INF gamma GM CSF G CSF M CSF LT beta or TNF alpha growth factors such as hGH.

The inventive pharmaceutical composition can also additionally or alternatively contain any further compound which is known to be immune stimulating due to its binding affinity as ligands to human Toll like receptors TLR1 TLR2 TLR3 TLR4 TLR5 TLR6 TLR7 TLR8 TLR9 TLR10 or due to its binding affinity as ligands to murine Toll like receptors TLR1 TLR2 TLR3 TLR4 TLR5 TLR6 TLR7 TLR8 TLR9 TLR10 TLR11 TLR12 or TLR13.

Another aspect of the present invention is directed to the use of the inventive compound and or combination as a therapeutic agent for the prophylaxis and or treatment of immunoinflammatory disorder. The term immunoinflammatory disorder encompasses a variety of conditions including autoimmune diseases proliferative skin diseases and inflammatory dermatoses. Immunoinflammatory disorders result in the destruction of healthy tissue by an inflammatory process dysregulation of the immune system and unwanted proliferation of cells. Examples of immunoinflammatory disorders are acne vulgaris acute respiratory distress syndrome Addison s disease allergic rhinitis allergic intraocular inflammatory diseases antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody ANCA associated small vessel vasculitis ankylosing spondylitis arthritis asthma atherosclerosis atopic dermatitis autoimmune hepatitis autoimmune hemolytic anemia autoimmune hepatitis Behcet s disease Bell s palsy bullous pemphigoid cerebral ischemia chronic obstructive pulmonary disease cirrhosis Cogan s syndrome contact dermatitis COPD Crohn s disease Cushing s syndrome dermatomyositis diabetes mellitus discoid lupus erythematosus eosinophilic fasciitis erythema nodosum exfoliative dermatitis fibromyalgia focal glomerulosclerosis focal segmental glomerulosclerosis giant cell arteritis gout gouty arthritis graft versus host disease hand eczema Henoch Schonlein purpura herpes gestationis hirsutism idiopathic cerato scleritis idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura immune thrombocytopenic purpura inflammatory bowel or gastrointestinal disorders inflammatory dermatoses lichen planus lupus nephritis lymphomatous tracheobronchitis macular edema multiple sclerosis myasthenia gravis myositis nonspecific fibrosing lung disease osteoarthritis pancreatitis pemphigoid gestationis pemphigus vulgaris periodontitis polyarteritis nodosa polymyalgia rheumatica pruritus scroti pruritis inflammation psoriasis psoriatic arthritis pulmonary histoplasmosis rheumatoid arthritis relapsing polychondritis rosacea caused by sarcoidosis rosacea caused by scleroderma rosacea caused by Sweet s syndrome rosacea caused by systemic lupus erythematosus rosacea caused by urticaria rosacea caused by zoster associated pain sarcoidosis scleroderma segmental glomerulosclerosis septic shock syndrome shoulder tendinitis or bursitis Sjogren s syndrome Still s disease stroke induced brain cell death Sweet s disease systemic lupus erythematosus systemic sclerosis Takayasu s arteritis temporal arteritis toxic epidermal necrolysis transplant rejection and transplant rejection related syndromes tuberculosis type 1 diabetes ulcerative colitis uveitis vasculitis and Wegener s granulomatosis.

As used herein non dermal inflammatory disorders include for example rheumatoid arthritis inflammatory bowel disease asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. By dermal inflammatory disorders or inflammatory dermatoses is meant an inflammatory disorder selected from psoriasis guttate psoriasis inverse psoriasis pustular psoriasis erythrodermic psoriasis acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis eczema asteatotic eczema dyshidrotic eczema vesicular palmoplantar eczema acne vulgaris atopic dermatitis contact dermatitis allergic contact dermatitis dermatomyositis exfoliative dermatitis hand eczema pompholyx rosacea rosacea caused by sarcoidosis rosacea caused by scleroderma rosacea caused by Sweet s syndrome rosacea caused by systemic lupus erythematosus rosacea caused by urticaria rosacea caused by zoster associated pain Sweet s disease neutrophilic hidradenitis sterile pustulosis drug eruptions seborrheic dermatitis pityriasis rosea cutaneous kikuchi disease pruritic urticarial papules and plaques of pregnancy Stevens Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis tattoo reactions Wells syndrome eosinophilic cellulitis reactive arthritis Reiter s syndrome bowel associated dermatosis arthritis syndrome rheumatoid neutrophilic dermatosis neutrophilic eccrine hidradenitis neutrophilic dermatosis of the dorsal hands balanitis circumscripta plasmacellularis balanoposthitis Behcet s disease erythema annulare centrifugum erythema dyschromicum perstans erythema multiforme granuloma annulare hand dermatitis lichen nitidus lichen planus lichen sclerosus et atrophicus lichen simplex chronicus lichen spinulosus nummular dermatitis pyoderma gangrenosum sarcoidosis subcorneal pustular dermatosis urticaria and transient acantholytic dermatosis.

By proliferative skin disease is meant a benign or malignant disease that is characterized by accelerated cell division in the epidermis or dermis. Examples of proliferative skin diseases are psoriasis atopic dermatitis nonspecific dermatitis primary irritant contact dermatitis allergic contact dermatitis basal and squamous cell carcinomas of the skin lamellar ichthyosis epidermolytic hyperkeratosis premalignant keratosis acne and seborrheic dermatitis. As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art a particular disease disorder or condition may be characterized as being both a proliferative skin disease and an inflammatory dermatosis. An example of such a disease is psoriasis.

Symptoms and signs of inflammation associated with specific conditions include rheumatoid arthritis pain swelling warmth and tenderness of the involved joints generalized and morning stiffness insulin dependent diabetes mellitus insulitis this condition can lead to a variety of complications with an inflammatory component including retinopathy neuropathy nephropathy coronary artery disease peripheral vascular disease and cerebrovascular disease autoimmune thyroiditis weakness constipation shortness of breath puffiness of the face hands and feet peripheral edema bradycardia multiple sclerosis spasticity blurry vision vertigo limb weakness paresthesias uveoretinitis decreased night vision loss of peripheral vision lupus erythematosus joint pain rash photosensitivity fever muscle pain puffiness of the hands and feet abnormal urinalysis hematuria cylinduria proteinuria glomerulonephritis cognitive dysfunction vessel thrombosis pericarditis scleroderma Raynaud s disease swelling of the hands arms legs and face skin thickening pain swelling and stiffness of the fingers and knees gastrointestinal dysfunction restrictive lung disease pericarditis renal failure other arthritic conditions having an inflammatory component such as rheumatoid spondylitis osteoarthritis septic arthritis and polyarthritis fever pain swelling tenderness other inflammatory brain disorders such as meningitis Alzheimer s disease AIDS dementia encephalitis photophobia cognitive dysfunction memory loss other inflammatory eye inflammations such as retinitis decreased visual acuity inflammatory skin disorders such as eczema other dermatites e.g. atopic contact psoriasis burns induced by UV radiation sun rays and similar UV sources erythema pain scaling swelling tenderness inflammatory bowel disease such as Crohn s disease ulcerative colitis pain diarrhea constipation rectal bleeding fever arthritis asthma shortness of breath wheezing other allergy disorders such as allergic rhinitis sneezing itching runny nose conditions associated with acute trauma such as cerebral injury following stroke sensory loss motor loss cognitive loss heart tissue injury due to myocardial ischemia pain shortness of breath lung injury such as that which occurs in adult respiratory distress syndrome shortness of breath hyperventilation decreased oxygenation pulmonary infiltrates inflammation accompanying infection such as sepsis septic shock toxic shock syndrome fever respiratory failure tachycardia hypotension leukocytosis other inflammatory conditions associated with particular organs or tissues such as i nephritis e.g. glomeralonephritis oliguria abnormal urinalysis ii inflamed appendix fever pain tenderness leukocytosis iii gout pain tenderness swelling and erythema of the involved joint elevated serum and or urinary uric acid iv inflamed gall bladder abdominal pain and tenderness fever nausea leukocytosis v congestive heart failure shortness of breath rales peripheral edema vi Type II diabetes end organ complications including cardiovascular ocular renal and peripheral vascular disease vii lung pulmonary fibrosis hyperventilation shortness of breath decreased oxygenation viii vascular disease such as atherosclerosis and restenosis pain loss of sensation diminished pulses loss of function and ix alloimmunity leading to transplant rejection pain tenderness fever.

Another aspect of the present invention is directed to the use of the inventive compound and or combination as a therapeutic agent for the prophylaxis and or treatment of Neurodegenerative Disease.

The present invention also relates generally to the fields of neurology and psychiatry and to methods of protecting the cells of a mammalian central nervous system from damage or injury. Injuries or trauma of various kinds to the central nervous system CNS or the peripheral nervous system PNS can produce profound and long lasting neurological and or psychiatric symptoms and disorders. One form that this can take is the progressive death of neurons or other cells of the central nervous system CNS i.e. neurodegeneration or neuronal degeneration. Neuronal degeneration as a result of for example Alzheimer s disease multiple sclerosis cerebral vascular accidents CVAs stroke traumatic brain injury spinal cord injuries degeneration of the optic nerve e.g. ischemic optic neuropathy or retinal degeneration and other central nervous system disorders is an enormous medical and public health problem by virtue of both its high incidence and the frequency of long term sequelae. Animal studies and clinical trials have shown that amino acid transmitters especially glutamate oxidative stress and inflammatory reactions contribute strongly to cell death in these conditions. Upon injury or upon ischemic insult damaged neurons release massive amounts of the neurotransmitter glutamate which is excitotoxic to the surrounding neurons. Glutamate is a negatively charged amino acid that is an excitatory synaptic transmitter in the mammalian nervous system. Although the concentration of glutamate can reach the millimolar range in nerve terminals its extracellular concentration is maintained at a low level to prevent neurotoxicity. It has been noted that glutamate can be toxic to neurons if presented at a high concentration. The term excitotoxicity has been used to describe the cytotoxic effect that glutamate and other such excitatory amino acids can have on neurons when applied at high dosages.

Patients with injury or damage of any kind to the central CNS or peripheral PNS nervous system including the retina may benefit from neuroprotective methods. This nervous system injury may take the form of an abrupt insult or an acute injury to the nervous system as in for example acute neurodegenerative disorders including but not limited to acute injury hypoxia ischemia or the combination thereof resulting in neuronal cell death or compromise. Acute injury includes but is not limited to traumatic brain injury TBI including closed blunt or penetrating brain trauma focal brain trauma diffuse brain damage spinal cord injury intracranial or intravertebral lesions including but not limited to contusion penetration shear compression or laceration lesions of the spinal cord or whiplash shaken infant syndrome . In addition deprivation of oxygen or blood supply in general can cause acute injury as in hypoxia and or ischemia including but not limited to cerebrovascular insufficiency cerebral ischemia or cerebral infarction including cerebral ischemia or infarctions originating from embolic occlusion and thrombosis retinal ischemia diabetic or otherwise glaucoma retinal degeneration multiple sclerosis toxic and ischemic optic neuropathy reperfusion following acute ischemia perinatal hypoxic ischemic injury cardiac arrest or intracranial hemorrhage of any type including but not limited to epidural subdural subarachnoid or intracerebral hemorrhage .

Trauma or injury to tissues of the nervous system may also take the form of more chronic and progressive neurodegenerative disorders such as those associated with progressive neuronal cell death or compromise over a period of time including but not limited to Alzheimer s disease Pick s disease diffuse Lewy body disease progressive supranuclear palsy Steel Richardson syndrome multisystem degeneration Shy Drager syndrome chronic epileptic conditions associated with neurodegeneration motor neuron diseases amyotrophic lateral sclerosis multiple sclerosis degenerative ataxias cortical basal degeneration ALS Parkinson s dementia complex of Guam subacute sclerosing panencephalitis Huntington s disease Parkinson s disease synucleinopathies including multiple system atrophy primary progressive aphasia striatonigral degeneration Machado Joseph disease or spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 and olivopontocerebellar degenerations bulbar and pseudobulbar palsy spinal and spinobulbar muscular atrophy Kennedy s disease primary lateral sclerosis familial spastic paraplegia Werdnig Hofmann disease Kugelberg Welander disease Tay Sach s disease Sandhoff disease familial spastic disease Wohlfart Kugelberg Welander disease spastic paraparesis progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy familial dysautonomia Riley Day syndrome or prion diseases including but not limited to Creutzfeld Jakob disease Gerstmann Strussler Scheinker disease Kuru disease or fatal familial insomnia .

In addition trauma and progressive injury to the nervous system can take place in various psychiatric disorders including but not limited to progressive deteriorating forms of bipolar disorder or schizoaffective disorder or schizophrenia impulse control disorders obsessive compulsive disorder OCD behavioral changes in temporal lobe epilepsy and personality disorders.

In one preferred embodiment the compounds and or compositions of the invention would be used to provide neuroprotection in disorders involving trauma and progressive injury to the nervous system in various psychiatric disorders. These disorders would be selected from the group consisting of schizoaffective disorder schizophrenia impulse control disorders obsessive compulsive disorder OCD and personality disorders.

In addition trauma and injury make take the form of disorders associated with overt and extensive memory loss including but not limited to neurodegenerative disorders associated with age related dementia vascular dementia diffuse white matter disease Binswanger s disease dementia of endocrine or metabolic origin dementia of head trauma and diffuse brain damage dementia pugilistica or frontal lobe dementia including but not limited to Pick s Disease.

Other disorders associated with neuronal injury include but are not limited to disorders associated with chemical toxic infectious and radiation injury of the nervous system including the retina injury during fetal development prematurity at time of birth anoxic ischemia injury from hepatic glycemic uremic electrolyte and endocrine origin injury of psychiatric origin including but not limited to psychopathology depression or anxiety injury from peripheral diseases and plexopathies including plexus palsies or injury from neuropathy including neuropathy selected from multifocal sensory motor sensory motor autonomic sensory autonomic or demyelinating neuropathies including but not limited to Guillain Barre syndrome or chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy or those neuropathies originating from infections inflammation immune disorders drug abuse pharmacological treatments toxins trauma including but not limited to compression crush laceration or segmentation traumas metabolic disorders including but not limited to endocrine or paraneoplastic Charcot Marie Tooth disease including but not limited to type 1a 1b 2 4a or 1 X linked Friedreich s ataxia metachromatic leukodystrophy Refsum s disease adrenomyeloneuropathy ataxia telangiectasia Djerine Sottas including but not limited to types A or B Lambert Eaton syndrome or disorders of the cranial nerves .

Further indications are cognitive disorders. The term cognitive disorder shall refer to anxiety disorders delirium dementia amnestic disorders dissociative disorders eating disorders mood disorders schizophrenia psychotic disorders sexual and gender identity disorders sleep disorders somatoform disorders acute stress disorder obsessive compulsive disorder panic disorder posttraumatic stress disorder specific phobia social phobia substance withdrawal delirium Alzheimer s disease Creutzfeldt Jakob disease head trauma Huntington s disease HIV disease Parkinson s disease Pick s disease learning disorders motor skills disorders developmental coordination disorder communication disorders phonological disorder pervasive developmental disorders Asperger s disorder autistic disorder childhood disintegrative disorder Rett s disorder pervasive developmental disorder attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ADHD conduct disorder oppositional defiant disorder pica rumination disorder tic disorders chronic motor or vocal tic disorder Tourette s disorder elimination disorders encopresis enuresis selective mutism separation anxiety disorder dissociative amnesia depersonalization disorder dissociative fugue dissociative identity disorder anorexia nervosa bulimia nervosa bipolar disorders schizophreniform disorder schizoaffective disorder delusional disorder psychotic disorder shared psychotic disorder delusions hallucinations substance induced psychotic disorder orgasmic disorders sexual pain disorders dyspareunia vaginismus sexual dysfunction paraphilias dyssomnias breathing related sleep disorder circadian rhythm sleep disorder hypersomnia insomnia narcolepsy dyssomnia parasomnias nightmare disorder sleep terror disorder sleepwalking disorder parasomnia body dysmorphic disorder conversion disorder hypochondriasis pain disorder somatization disorder alcohol related disorders amphetamine related disorders caffeine related disorders cannabis related disorders cocaine related disorders hallucinogen related disorders inhalant related disorders nicotine related disorders opioid related disorders phencyclidine related disorder abuse persisting amnestic disorder intoxication withdrawal.

The term bipolar and clinical disorders shall refer to adjustment disorders anxiety disorders delirium dementia amnestic and other cognitive disorders disorders usually first diagnosed in infancy e.g. childhood or adolescence dissociative disorders e.g. dissociative amnesia depersonalization disorder dissociative fugue and dissociative identity disorder eating disorders factitious disorders impulse control disorders mental disorders due to a general medical condition mood disorders other conditions that may be a focus of clinical attention personality disorders schizophrenia and other psychotic disorders sexual and gender identity disorders sleep disorders somatoform disorders substance related disorders generalized anxiety disorder e.g. acute stress disorder posttraumatic stress disorder panic disorder phobia agoraphobia obsessive compulsive disorder stress acute stress disorder anxiety neurosis nervousness phobia posttraumatic stress disorder posttraumatic stress disorder PTSD abuse obsessive compulsive disorder OCD manic depressive psychosis specific phobias social phobia adjustment disorder with anxious features.

Examples for disorders usually first diagnosed in infancy childhood or adolescence are mental retardation learning disorders mathematics disorder reading disorder disorder of written expression motor skills disorders developmental coordination disorder communication disorders expressive language disorder phonological disorder mixed receptive expressive language disorder stuttering pervasive developmental disorders Asperger s disorder autistic disorder childhood disintegrative disorder Rett s disorder pervasive developmental disorder attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ADHD conduct disorder oppositional defiant disorder feeding disorder of infancy or early childhood pica rumination disorder tic disorders chronic motor or vocal tic disorder Tourette s syndrome elimination disorders encopresis enuresis selective mutism separation anxiety disorder reactive attachment disorder of infancy or early childhood stereotypic movement disorder.

Examples for substance related disorders are alcohol related disorders amphetamine related disorders caffeine related disorders cannabis related disorders cocaine related disorders hallucinogen related disorders inhalant related disorders nicotine related disorders opioid related disorders psychotic disorder psychotic disorder phencyclidine related disorder abuse persisting amnestic disorder anxiety disorder persisting dementia dependence intoxication intoxication delirium mood disorder psychotic disorder withdrawal withdrawal delirium sexual dysfunction sleep disorder.

The term neuroprotection as used herein shall mean inhibiting preventing ameliorating or reducing the severity of the dysfunction degeneration or death of nerve cells axons or their supporting cells in the central or peripheral nervous system of a mammal including a human. This includes the treatment or prophylaxis of a neurodegenerative disease protection against excitotoxicity or ameliorating the cytotoxic effect of a compound for example a excitatory amino acid such as glutamate a toxin or a prophylactic or therapeutic compound that exerts an immediate or delayed cytotoxic side effect including but not limited to the immediate or delayed induction of apoptosis in a patient in need thereof.

The term a patient in need of treatment with a neuroprotective drug as used herein will refer to any patient who currently has or may develop any of the above syndromes or disorders or any disorder in which the patient s present clinical condition or prognosis could benefit from providing neuroprotection to prevent the development extension worsening or increased resistance to treatment of any neurological or psychiatric disorder.

The term treating or treatment as used herein refers to any indicia of success in the prevention or amelioration of an injury pathology or condition including any objective or subjective parameter such as abatement remission diminishing of symptoms or making the injury pathology or condition more tolerable to the patient slowing in the rate of degeneration or decline making the final point of degeneration less debilitating or improving a subject s physical or mental well being. The treatment or amelioration of symptoms can be based on objective or subjective parameters including the results of a physical examination neurological examination and or psychiatric evaluations.

In some embodiments this invention provides methods of neuroprotection. In certain embodiments these methods comprise administering a therapeutically effective amount of the composition and or combination of the invention to a patient who has not yet developed overt clinical signs or symptoms of injury or damage to the cells of the nervous system but who may be in a high risk group for the development of neuronal damage because of injury or trauma to the nervous system or because of some known predisposition either biochemical or genetic or the finding of a verified biomarker of one or more of these disorders.

Thus in some embodiments the methods and compositions of the present invention are directed toward neuroprotection in a subject who is at risk of developing neuronal damage but who has not yet developed clinical evidence. This patient may simply be at greater risk as determined by the recognition of any factor in a subject s or their families medical history physical exam or testing that is indicative of a greater than average risk for developing neuronal damage. Therefore this determination that a patient may be at a greater risk by any available means can be used to determine whether the patient should be treated with the methods of the present invention.

Accordingly in an exemplary embodiment subjects who may benefit from treatment by the methods and the composition and or combination of this invention can be identified using accepted screening methods to determine risk factors for neuronal damage. These screening methods include for example conventional work ups to determine risk factors including but not limited to for example head trauma either closed or penetrating CNS infections bacterial or viral cerebrovascular disease including but not limited to stroke brain tumors brain edema cysticercosis porphyria metabolic encephalopathy drug withdrawal including but not limited to sedative hypnotic or alcohol withdrawal abnormal perinatal history including anoxia at birth or birth injury of any kind cerebral palsy learning disabilities hyperactivity history of febrile convulsions as a child history of status epilepticus family history of epilepsy or any seizure related disorder inflammatory disease of the brain including lupis drug intoxication either direct or by placental transfer including but not limited to cocaine poisoning parental consanguinity and treatment with medications that are toxic to the nervous system including psychotropic medications.

The determination of which patients may benefit from treatment with a neuroprotective drug in patients who have no clinical signs or symptoms may be based on a variety of surrogate markers or biomarkers .

As used herein the terms surrogate marker and biomarker are used interchangeably and refer to any anatomical biochemical structural electrical genetic or chemical indicator or marker that can be reliably correlated with the present existence or future development of neuronal damage. In some instances brain imaging techniques such as computer tomography CT magnetic resonance imaging MRI or positron emission tomography PET can be used to determine whether a subject is at risk for neuronal damage. Suitable biomarkers for the methods of this invention include but are not limited to the determination by MRI CT or other imaging techniques of sclerosis atrophy or volume loss in the hippocampus or overt mesial temporal sclerosis MTS or similar relevant anatomical pathology the detection in the patient s blood serum or tissues of a molecular species such as a protein or other biochemical biomarker e.g. elevated levels of ciliary neurotrophic factor CNTF or elevated serum levels of a neuronal degradation product or other evidence from surrogate markers or biomarkers that the patient is in need of treatment with a neuroprotective drug.

It is expected that many more such biomarkers utilizing a wide variety of detection techniques will be developed in the future. It is intended that any such marker or indicator of the existence or possible future development of neuronal damage as the latter term is used herein may be used in the methods of this invention for determining the need for treatment with the compounds and methods of this invention.

A determination that a subject has or may be at risk for developing neuronal damage would also include for example a medical evaluation that includes a thorough history a physical examination and a series of relevant bloods tests. It can also include an electroencephalogram EEG CT MRI or PET scan. A determination of an increased risk of developing neuronal damage or injury may also be made by means of genetic testing including gene expression profiling or proteomic techniques. For psychiatric disorders that may be stabilized or improved by a neuroprotective drug e.g. bipolar disorder schizoaffective disorder schizophrenia impulse control disorders etc. the above tests may also include a present state exam and a detailed history of the course of the patients symptoms such as mood disorder symptoms and psychotic symptoms over time and in relation to other treatments the patient may have received over time e.g. a life chart. These and other specialized and routine methods allow the clinician to select patients in need of therapy using the methods and formulations of this invention. In some embodiments of the present invention compounds and or compostions suitable for use in the practice of this invention will be administered either singly or concomitantly with at least one or more other compounds or therapeutic agents e.g. with other neuroprotective drugs or antiepileptic drugs anticonvulsant drugs. In these embodiments the present invention provides methods to treat or prevent neuronal injury in a patient. The method includes the step of administering to a patient in need of treatment an effective amount of the compounds and or compositions disclosed herein in combination with an effective amount of one or more other compounds or therapeutic agents that have the ability to provide neuroprotection or to treat or prevent seizures or epileptogenesis or the ability to augment the neuroprotective effects of the compounds of the invention.

As used herein the term combination administration of a compound therapeutic agent or known drug with the combination of the present invention means administration of the drug and the one or more compounds at such time that both the known drug and or combination will have a therapeutic effect. In some cases this therapeutic effect will be synergistic. Such concomitant administration can involve concurrent i.e. at the same time prior or subsequent administration of the drug with respect to the administration of the composition and or combination of the present invention. A person of ordinary skill in the art would have no difficulty determining the appropriate timing sequence and dosages of administration for particular drugs of the present invention.

The said one or more other compounds or therapeutic agents may be selected from compounds that have one or more of the following properties antioxidant activity NMDA receptor antagonist activity augmentation of endogenous GABA inhibition NO synthase inhibitor activity iron binding ability e.g. an iron chelator calcium binding ability e.g. a Ca II chelator zinc binding ability e.g. a Zn II chelator the ability to effectively block sodium or calcium ion channels or to open potassium or chloride ion channels in the CNS of a patient.

Another aspect of the present invention is directed to the use of the inventive compound and or combination as a therapeutic agent for the prophylaxis and or treatment of heart disease. Heart disease is a general term used to describe many different heart conditions. For example coronary artery disease which is the most common heart disease is characterized by constriction or narrowing of the arteries supplying the heart with oxygen rich blood and can lead to myocardial infarction which is the death of a portion of the heart muscle. Heart failure is a condition resulting from the inability of the heart to pump an adequate amount of blood through the body. Heart failure is not a sudden abrupt stop of heart activity but rather typically develops slowly over many years as the heart gradually loses its ability to pump blood efficiently. Risk factors for heart failure include coronary artery disease hypertension valvular heart disease cardiomyopathy disease of the heart muscle obesity diabetes and or a family history of heart failure.

Examples of cardiovascular diseases and disorders are aneurysm stable angina unstable angina angina pectoris angioneurotic edema aortic valve stenosis aortic aneurysm arrhythmia arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia arteriosclerosis arteriovenous malformations atrial fibrillation Behcet syndrome bradycardia cardiac tamponade cardiomegaly congestive card iomyopathy hypertrophic cardiomyopathy restrictive cardiomyopathy carotid stenosis cerebral hemorrhage Churg Strauss syndrome diabetes Ebstein s Anomaly Eisenmenger complex cholesterol embolism bacterial endocarditis fibromuscular dysplasia congenital heart defects heart diseases congestive heart failure heart valve diseases heart attack epidural hematoma hematoma subdural Hippel Lindau disease hyperemia hypertension pulmonary hypertension cardiac hypertrophy left ventricular hypertrophy right ventricular hypertrophy hypoplastic left heart syndrome hypotension intermittent claudication ischemic heart disease Klippel Trenaunay Weber syndrome lateral medullary syndrome long QT syndrome mitral valve prolapse moyamoya disease mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome myocardial infarction myocardial ischemia myocarditis pericarditis peripheral vascular diseases phlebitis polyarteritis nodosa pulmonary atresia Raynaud disease Sneddon syndrome superior vena cava syndrome syndrome X tachycardia Takayasu s arteritis hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia telangiectasis temporal arteritis tetralogy of Fallot thromboangiitis obliterans thrombosis thromboembolism tricuspid atresia varicose veins vascular diseases vasculitis vasospasm ventricular fibrillation Williams syndrome peripheral vascular disease varicose veins and leg ulcers deep vein thrombosis Wolff Parkinson White syndrome.

Vascular diseases are often the result of decreased perfusion in the vascular system or physical or biochemical injury to the blood vessel.

Peripheral vascular disease PVD is defined as a disease of blood vessels often encountered as narrowing of the vessels of the limbs. There are two main types of these disorders functional disease which doesn t involve defects in the blood vessels but rather arises from stimuli such as cold stress or smoking and organic disease which arises from structural defects in the vasculature such as atherosclerotic lesions local inflammation or traumatic injury. This can lead to occlusion of the vessel aberrant blood flow and ultimately to tissue ischemia.

One of the more clinically significant forms of PVD is peripheral artery disease PAD . PAD is often treated by angioplasty and implantation of a stent or by artery bypass surgery. Clinical presentation depends on the location of the occluded vessel. For example narrowing of the artery that supplies blood to the intestine can result in severe postprandial pain in the lower abdomen resulting from the inability of the occluded vessel to meet the increased oxygen demand arising from digestive and absorptive processes. In severe forms the ischemia can lead to intestinal necrosis. Similarly PAD in the leg can lead to intermittent pain usually in the calf that comes and goes with activity. This disorder is known as intermittent claudication IC and can progress to persistent pain while resting ischemic ulceration and even amputation.

Peripheral vascular disease is also manifested in atherosclerotic stenosis of the renal artery which can lead to renal ischemia and kidney dysfunction.

One disease in which vascular diseases and their complications are very common is diabetes mellitus. Diabetes mellitus causes a variety of physiological and anatomical irregularities the most prominent of which is the inability of the body to utilize glucose normally which results in hyperglycemia. Chronic diabetes can lead to complications of the vascular system which include atherosclerosis abnormalities involving large and medium size blood vessels macroangiopathy and abnormalities involving small blood vessels microangiopathy such as arterioles and capillaries.

Patients with diabetes mellitus are at increased risk of developing one or more foot ulcers as a result of established long term complications of the disease which include impaired nerve function neuropathy and or ischemia. Local tissue ischemia is a key contributing factor to diabetic foot ulceration.

In addition to large vessel disease patients with diabetes suffer further threat to their skin perfusion in at least two additional ways. First by involvement of the non conduit arteries which are detrimentally affected by the process of atherosclerosis and secondly and perhaps more importantly by impairment of the microcirculatory control mechanisms small vessel disease . Normally when a body part suffers some form of trauma the body part will as part of the body s healing mechanism experience an increased blood flow. When small vessel disease and ischemia are both present as in the case of many diabetics this natural increased blood flow response is significantly reduced. This fact together with the tendency of diabetics to form blood clots thrombosis in the microcirculatory system during low levels of blood flow is believed to be an important factor in ulcer pathogenesis.

Neuropathy is a general term which describes a disease process which leads to the dysfunction of the nervous system and is one of the major complications of diabetes mellitus with no well established therapies for either its symptomatic treatment or for prevention of progressive decline in nerve function.

The thickening and leakage of capillaries caused by diabetes primarily affect the eyes retinopathy and kidneys nephropathy . The thickening and leakage of capillaries caused by diabetes are also associated with skin disorders and disorders of the nervous system neuropathy .

The eye diseases associated with diabetes are nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy proliferative diabetic retinopathy diabetic maculopathy glaucoma cataracts and the like.

Other diseases although not known to be related to diabetes are similar in their physiological effects on the peripheral vascular system. Such diseases include Raynaud syndrome CREST syndrome autoimmune diseases such as erythematosis rheumatoid disease and the like.

As used herein the term peripheral vascular diseases comprises any peripheral vascular disease including peripheral and autonomic neuropathies. Examples of peripheral vascular disease include peripheral arterial disease such as chronic arterial occlusion including arteriosclerosis arteriosclerosis obliterans and thromboangiitis obliterans Buerger s disease macroangiopathy microangiopathy diabetes mellitus thrombophlebitis phlebemphraxis Raynaud s disease Raynaud s syndrome CREST syndrome health hazard due to vibration Sudeck s syndrome intermittent claudication cold sense in extremities abnormal sensation in extremities sensitivity to the cold Meniere s disease Meniere s syndrome numbness lack of sensation anesthesia resting pain causalgia burning pain disturbance of peripheral circulation function disturbance of nerve function disturbance of motor function motor paralysis diabetic peripheral circulation disorder lumbar spinal canal stenosis diabetic neuropathy shock autoimmune disease such as erythematosis rheumatoid disease and rheumatoid arthritis autonomic neuropathy diabetic autonomic neuropathy autonomic imbalance orthostatic hypotension erectile dysfunction female sexual dysfunction retrograde ejaculation cystopathy neurogenic bladder defective vaginal lubrication exercise intolerance cardiac denervation heat intolerance gustatory sweating diabetic complication hyperglycemia hypoglycemia unawareness hypoglycemia unresponsiveness glaucoma neovascular glaucoma cataract retinopathy diabetic retinopathy diabetic maculopathy occlusion of retinal artery obstruction of central artery of retina occlusion of retinal vein macular edema aged macular degeneration aged disciform macular degeneration cystoid macular edema palpebral edema retinal edema chorioretinopathy neovascular maculopathy uveitis iritis retinal vasculitis endophthalmitis panophthalmitis metastatic ophthalmia choroiditis retinal pigment epithelitis conjunctivitis cyclitis scleritis episcleritis optic neuritis retrobulbar optic neuritis keratitis blepharitis exudative retinal detachment corneal ulcer conjunctival ulcer chronic nummular keratitis Thygeson keratitis progressive Mooren s ulcer damage of skin skin ulcer including foot ulcer diabetic ulcer burn ulcer lower leg ulcer postoperative ulcer traumatic ulcer ulcer after herpes zoster radiation ulcer drug induced ulcer frostbite cold injury chilblain gangrene and sudden gangrene angina pectoris variant angiitis coronary arteriosclerosis chronic ischemic heart disease asymptomatic ischemic heart disease arteriosclerotic cardiovascular disease myocardial infarction heart failure congestive heart failure and painless ischemic heart disease pulmonary edema hypertension pulmonary hypertension portal hypertension diabetic nephropathy decubitus renal failure.

The compounds and compositions of the invention may be administered enterally or parenterally. Mixed with pharmaceutically suitable auxiliaries e.g. as described in the standard reference Gennaro et al. Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences. The compounds may be compressed into solid dosage units such as pills tablets or be processed into capsules or suppositories. By means of pharmaceutically suitable liquids the compounds can also be applied in the form of a solution suspension emulsion e.g. for use as an injection preparation or eye drops or as a spray e.g. for use as a nasal spray.

For making dosage units e.g. tablets the use of conventional additives such as fillers colorants polymeric binders and the like is contemplated. In general any pharmaceutically acceptable additive which does not interfere with the function of the active compounds can be used. Suitable carriers with which the compositions can be administered include lactose starch cellulose derivatives and the like or mixtures thereof used in suitable amounts.

The compositions and compositions of the present invention can be processed by agglomeration air suspension chilling air suspension drying balling coacervation coating comminution compression cryopelletization encapsulation extrusion wet granulation dry granulation homogenization inclusion complexation lyophilization melting microencapsulation mixing molding pan coating solvent dehydration sonication spheronization spray chilling spray congealing spray drying or other processes known in the art. The compositions can be provided in the form of a minicapsule a capsule a tablet an implant a troche a lozenge minitablet a temporary or permanent suspension an ovule a suppository a wafer a chewable tablet a quick or fast dissolving tablet an effervescent tablet a buccal or sublingual solid a granule a film a sprinkle a pellet a bead a pill a powder a triturate a platelet a strip or a sachet. Compositions can also be administered as a dry syrup where the finished dosage form is placed directly on the tongue and swallowed or followed with a drink or beverage. These forms are well known in the art and are packaged appropriately. The compositions can be formulated for oral nasal buccal ocular urethral transmucosal vaginal topical or rectal delivery.

The pharmaceutical composition can be coated with one or more enteric coatings seal coatings film coatings barrier coatings compress coatings fast disintegrating coatings or enzyme degradable coatings. Multiple coatings can be applied for desired performance. Further the dosage form can be designed for immediate release pulsatile release controlled release extended release delayed release targeted release synchronized release or targeted delayed release. For release absorption control solid carriers can be made of various component types and levels or thicknesses of coats with or without an active ingredient. Such diverse solid carriers can be blended in a dosage form to achieve a desired performance. The definitions of these terms are known to those skilled in the art. In addition the dosage form release profile can be affected by a polymeric matrix composition a coated matrix composition a multiparticulate composition a coated multiparticulate composition an ion exchange resin based composition an osmosis based composition or a biodegradable polymeric composition. Without wishing to be bound by theory it is believed that the release may be effected through favorable diffusion dissolution erosion ion exchange osmosis or combinations thereof.

When formulated as a capsule the capsule can be a hard or soft gelatin capsule a starch capsule or a cellulosic capsule. Although not limited to capsules such dosage forms can further be coated with for example a seal coating an enteric coating an extended release coating or a targeted delayed release coating. These various coatings are known in the art but for clarity the following brief descriptions are provided seal coating or coating with isolation layers Thin layers of up to 20 microns in thickness can be applied for variety of reasons including for particle porosity reduction to reduce dust for chemical protection to mask taste to reduce odor to minimize gastrointestinal irritation etc. The isolating effect is proportional to the thickness of the coating. Water soluble cellulose ethers are preferred for this application. HPMC and ethyl cellulose in combination or Eudragit E100 may be particularly suitable for taste masking applications. Traditional enteric coating materials listed elsewhere can also be applied to form an isolating layer.

Extended release coatings are designed to effect delivery over an extended period of time. The extended release coating is a pH independent coating formed of for example ethyl cellulose hydroxypropyl cellulose methylcellulose hydroxymethyl cellulose hydroxyethyl cellulose acrylic esters or sodium carboxymethyl cellulose. Various extended release dosage forms can be readily designed by one skilled in art to achieve delivery to both the small and large intestines to only the small intestine or to only the large intestine depending upon the choice of coating materials and or coating thickness.

Enteric coatings are mixtures of pharmaceutically acceptable excipients which are applied to combined with mixed with or otherwise added to the carrier or composition. The coating may be applied to a compressed or molded or extruded tablet a gelatin capsule and or pellets beads granules or particles of the carrier or composition. The coating may be applied through an aqueous dispersion or after dissolving in appropriate solvent. Additional additives and their levels and selection of a primary coating material or materials will depend on the following properties 1. resistance to dissolution and disintegration in the stomach 2. impermeability to gastric fluids and drug carrier enzyme while in the stomach 3. ability to dissolve or disintegrate rapidly at the target intestine site 4. physical and chemical stability during storage 5. non toxicity 6. easy application as a coating substrate friendly and 7. economical practicality.

Dosage forms of the compositions of the present invention can also be formulated as enteric coated delayed release oral dosage forms i.e. as an oral dosage form of a pharmaceutical composition as described herein which utilizes an enteric coating to affect release in the lower gastrointestinal tract. The enteric coated dosage form may be a compressed or molded or extruded tablet mold coated or uncoated containing granules pellets beads or particles of the active ingredient and or other composition components which are themselves coated or uncoated. The enteric coated oral dosage form may also be a capsule coated or uncoated containing pellets beads or granules of the solid carrier or the composition which are themselves coated or uncoated.

Delayed release generally refers to the delivery so that the release can be accomplished at some generally predictable location in the lower intestinal tract more distal to that which would have been accomplished if there had been no delayed release alterations. The preferred method for delay of release is coating. Any coatings should be applied to a sufficient thickness such that the entire coating does not dissolve in the gastrointestinal fluids at pH below about 5 but does dissolve at pH about 5 and above. It is expected that any anionic polymer exhibiting a pH dependent solubility profile can be used as an enteric coating in the practice of the present invention to achieve delivery to the lower gastrointestinal tract. Polymers for use in the present invention are anionic carboxylic polymers.

Shellac also called purified lac a refined product obtained from the resinous secretion of an insect. This coating dissolves in media of pH 7.

Colorants detackifiers surfactants antifoaming agents lubricants stabilizers such as hydroxy propyl cellulose acid base may be added to the coatings besides plasticizers to solubilize or disperse the coating material and to improve coating performance and the coated product.

In carrying out the method of the present invention the combination of the invention may be administered to mammalian species such as dogs cats humans etc. and as such may be incorporated in a conventional systemic dosage form such as a tablet capsule elixir or injectable. The above dosage forms will also include the necessary carrier material excipient lubricant buffer antibacterial bulking agent such as mannitol anti oxidants ascorbic acid of sodium bisulfate or the like.

The dose administered must be carefully adjusted according to age weight and condition of the patient as well as the route of administration dosage form and regimen and the desired result.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may be administered in the dosage forms in single or divided doses of one to four times daily. It may be advisable to start a patient on a low dose combination and work up gradually to a high dose combination.

Tablets of various sizes can be prepared e.g. of about 1 to 2000 mg in total weight containing one or both of the active pharmaceutical ingredients with the remainder being a physiologically acceptable carrier of other materials according to accepted pharmaceutical practice. These tablets can be scored to provide for fractional doses. Gelatin capsules can be similarly formulated.

Liquid formulations can also be prepared by dissolving or suspending one or the combination of active substances in a conventional liquid vehicle acceptable for pharmaceutical administration so as to provide the desired dosage in one to four teaspoonful.

Dosage forms can be administered to the patient on a regimen of for example one two three four five six or other doses per day

In order to more finely regulate the dosage schedule the active substances may be administered separately in individual dosage units at the same time or carefully coordinated times. Since blood levels are built up and maintained by a regulated schedule of administration the same result is achieved by the simultaneous presence of the two substances. The respective substances can be individually formulated in separate unit dosage forms in a manner similar to that described above.

In formulating the compositions the active substances in the amounts described above may be compounded according to accepted pharmaceutical practice with a physiologically acceptable vehicle carrier excipient binder preservative stabilizer flavor etc. in the particular type of unit dosage form.

Illustrative of the adjuvants which may be incorporated in tablets are the following a binder such as gum tragacanth acacia corn starch or gelatin an excipient such as dicalcium phosphate or cellulose a disintegrating agent such as corn starch potato starch alginic acid or the like a lubricant such as stearic acid or magnesium stearate a sweetening agent such as sucrose aspartame lactose or saccharin a flavoring agent such as orange peppermint oil of wintergreen or cherry. When the dosage unit form is a capsule it may contain in addition to materials of the above type a liquid carrier such as a fatty oil. Various other materials may be present as coatings or to otherwise modify the physical form of the dosage unit. For instance tablets or capsules may be coated with shellac sugar or both. A syrup of elixir may contain the active compound water alcohol or the like as the carrier glycerol as solubilizer sucrose as sweetening agent methyl and propyl parabens as preservatives a dye and a flavoring such as cherry or orange.

One embodiment of this invention includes methods of treating preventing or diagnosing a particular disease or condition by administering the disclosed nanoparticles composite nanoparticles nanosuspension or nanocapsules to a subject. In many instances the nanoparticles composite nanoparticles or nanocapsules are administered alone or can be included within a pharmaceutical composition. An effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition generally is defined as that amount sufficient to ameliorate reduce minimize or limit the extent of the disease or condition. More rigorous definitions may apply including elimination eradication or cure of the disease or condition.

 Nanoparticles are solid particles of an average particle diameter of for example less than about 1 micron micrometer . One micron is 1 000 nanometers nm .

 Stabilized nanoparticles are nanoparticles coated with a stabilizing material and having a reduced tendency for aggregation and loss of dispersion with respect to nanoparticles of the compound of the invention without a stabilizing coating.

A nano spray is a spray containing nanoparticles or a spray that produces nanoparticles. A nanodispersion is a dispersion containing nanoparticles. A nanosuspension is a suspension containing nanoparticles.

The liquid formulations useful herein may comprise a solvent solution suspension microsuspension nanosuspension emulsion microemulsion gel or even a melt containing the active component or components. In some embodiments the nanoparticles nanofibers or nanofibrils may be in the form of or within or on granules powders suspensions solutions dissolvable films mats webs tablets or releasable forms particularly releasable dosage forms. Other particular useful forms are concentrates to which a diluting liquid is added prior to use. The product may also be sprayed onto the inner surface of a container to which a liquid is added later prior to use and the nanoparticles nanofibers or nanofibrils are released into the liquid.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention can include nanoparticles composite nanoparticles nanosuspension or nanocapsules of the present invention.

In certain non limiting embodiments pharmaceutical compositions may comprise for example at least about 0.1 of an active ingredient or nanoparticles composite nanoparticles or nanocapsules for example. In other embodiments the an active ingredient or nanoparticles composite nanoparticles or nanocapsules may comprise between about 2 to about 75 of the weight of the unit or between about 25 to about 60 for example and any range derivable therein. In non limiting examples of a derivable range from the numbers listed herein a range of about 5 mg kg body weight to about 100 mg kg body weight about 5 microgram kg body weight to about 500 milligram kg body weight etc. can be administered.

The composition may also include various antioxidants to retard oxidation of one or more active ingredient or nanoparticles composite nanoparticles nanosuspension or nanocapsules. The prevention of the action of microorganisms can be brought about by preservatives such as various antibacterial and antifungal agents including but not limited to parabens e.g. methylparabens propylparabens chlorobutanol phenol sorbic acid thimerosal or combinations thereof.

In order to increase the effectiveness of a treatment with the nanoparticles nanogels composite nanoparticles nanosuspension or nanocapsules of the present invention it may be desirable to combine these nanoparticles composite nanoparticles or nanocapsules with other therapies effective in the treatment of a particular disease or condition.

The formulations as described above may be administered for a prolonged period that is for as long as the potential for a disease or condition remains or the symptoms continue.

The present invention relates to a kit for conveniently and effectively carrying out the methods in accordance with the present invention. Such kits may be suited for the delivery of solid oral forms such as tablets or capsules. Such a kit may include a number of unit dosages. Such kits can include a means for containing the dosages oriented in the order of their intended use. An example of a means for containing the dosages in the order of their intended uses is a card. An example of such a kit is a blister pack . Blister packs are well known in the packaging industry and are widely used for packaging pharmaceutical unit dosage forms. If desired the blister can be in the form of a childproof blister i.e. a blister that is difficult for a child to open yet can be readily opened by an adult. If desired a memory aid can be provided for example in the form of numbers letters or other markings or with a calendar feature and or calendar insert designating the days and the sections of a day in the treatment schedule in which the dosages can be administered such as an AM dose is packaged with a mid day and a PM dose or an AM dose is packaged with a PM dose. Alternatively placebo dosages or vitamin or dietary supplements either in a form similar to or distinct from the pharmaceutical active dosages can be included.

In one aspect the package kit or container comprises a blister package also called a blister pack or bubble pack . In one aspect the blister package consists two or more separate compartments Am dosage of this invention and PM dosage of this invention or mid day dosage of this invention. This blister package is made up of two separate material elements a transparent plastic cavity shaped to the product and its blister board backing. These two elements are then joined together with a heat sealing process which allows the product to be hung or displayed. Exemplary types of blister packages include Face seal blister packages gang run blister packages mock blister packages interactive blister packages slide blister packages.

Blister packs clamshells or trays are forms of packaging used for goods thus the invention provides for blister packs clamshells or trays comprising a composition e.g. a the multi ingredient combination of drugs of the invention combination of active ingredients of the invention. Blister packs clamshells or trays can be designed to be non reclosable so consumers can tell if a package has already opened. They are used to package for sale goods where product tampering is a consideration such as the pharmaceuticals of the invention. In one aspect a blister pack of the invention comprises a moulded PVC base with raised areas the blisters to contain the tablets pills etc. comprising the combinations of the invention covered by a foil laminate. Tablets pills etc. are removed from the pack either by peeling the foil back or by pushing the blister to force the tablet to break the foil. In one aspect a specialized form of a blister pack is a strip pack.

In one aspect a blister pack also comprises a method of packaging where the compositions comprising combinations of ingredients of the invention are contained in between a card and a clear PVC. The PVC can be transparent so the item pill tablet geltab etc. can be seen and examined easily and in one aspect can be vacuum formed around a mould so it can contain the item snugly and have room to be opened upon purchase. In one aspect the card is brightly colored and designed depending on the item pill tablet geltab etc. inside and the PVC is affixed to the card using pre formed tabs where the adhesive is placed. The adhesive can be strong enough so that the pack may hang on a peg but weak enough so that this way one can tear open the join and access the item. Sometimes with large items or multiple enclosed pills tablets geltabs etc. the card has a perforated window for access. In one aspect more secure blister packs e.g. for items such as pills tablets geltabs etc. of the invention are used and they can comprise of two vacuum formed PVC sheets meshed together at the edges with the informative card inside.

In one aspect blister packaging comprises at least two components e.g. is a multi ingredient combination of drugs of the invention a thermoformed blister which houses the product e.g. a pharmaceutical combination of the invention and then a blister card that is a printed card with an adhesive coating on the front surface. During the assembly process the blister component which is most commonly made out of PVC is attached to the blister card using a blister machine. This machine introduces heat to the flange area of the blister which activates the glue on the card in that specific area and ultimately secures the PVG blister to the printed blister card. The thermoformed PVG blister and the printed blister card can be as small or large. Conventional blister packs can also be sealed e.g. using an AERGO 8 DUO SCA Consumer Packaging Inc. DeKalb Ill. using regular heat seal tooling. This alternative aspect using heat seal tooling can seal common types of thermoformed packaging.

As discussed herein the products of manufacture of the invention can comprise the packaging of the therapeutic drug combinations of the invention alone or in combination as blister packages or as a plurality of packettes including as lidded blister packages lidded blister or blister card or packets or a shrink wrap.

In one aspect laminated aluminum foil blister packs are used e.g. for the preparation of drugs designed to dissolve immediately in the mouth of a patient. This exemplary process comprises having the drug combinations of the invention prepared as an aqueous solution s which are dispensed e.g. by measured dose into an aluminum e.g. alufoil laminated tray portion of a blister pack. This tray is then freeze dried to form tablets which take the shape of the blister pockets. The alufoil laminate of both the tray and lid fully protects any highly hygroscopic and or sensitive individual doses. In one aspect the pack incorporates a child proof peel open security laminate. In one aspect the system give tablets an identification mark by embossing a design into the alufoil pocket that is taken up by the tablets when they change from aqueous to solid state. In one aspect individual push through blister packs packettes are used e.g. using hard temper aluminum e.g. alufoil lidding material. In one aspect hermetically sealed high barrier aluminum e.g. alufoil laminates are used. In one aspect any of the invention s products of manufacture including kits or blister packs use foil laminations and strip packs stick packs sachets and pouches peelable and non peelable laminations combining foil paper and film for high barrier packaging.

Other means for containing said unit dosages can include bottles and vials wherein the bottle or vial comprises a memory aid such as a printed label for administering said unit dosage or dosages. The label can also contain removable reminder stickers for placement on a calendar or dayminder to further help the patient to remember when to take a dosage or when a dosage has been taken.

The pharmaceutical compositions may be optimized for particular types of delivery. For example pharmaceutical compositions for oral delivery are formulated using pharmaceutically acceptable carriers that are well known in the art. The carriers enable the agents in the composition to be formulated for example as a tablet pill capsule solution suspension sustained release formulation powder liquid or gel for oral ingestion by the subject.

The GCR antagonist may also be delivered in an aerosol spray preparation from a pressurized pack a nebulizer or from a dry powder inhaler. Suitable propellants that can be used in a nebulizer include for example dichlorodifluoro methane trichlorofluoromethane dichlorotetrafluoroethane and carbon dioxide. The dosage can be determined by providing a valve to deliver a regulated amount of the compound in the case of a pressurized aerosol.

Compositions for inhalation or insufflation include solutions and suspensions in pharmaceutically acceptable aqueous or organic solvents or mixtures thereof and powders. The liquid or solid compositions may contain suitable pharmaceutically acceptable excipients as set out above. Preferably the compositions are administered by the oral intranasal or respiratory route for local or systemic effect. Compositions in preferably sterile pharmaceutically acceptable solvents may be nebulized by use of inert gases. Nebulized solutions may be breathed directly from the nebulizing device or the nebulizing device may be attached to a face mask tent or intermittent positive pressure breathing machine. Solution suspension or powder compositions may be administered preferably orally or nasally from devices that deliver the formulation in an appropriate manner.

Any therapy e.g. therapeutic or prophylactic agent which is useful has been used is currently being used or may be used for the prevention treatment and or management of neoplasia can be used to prevent treat and or manage the patient whose neoplasia and or cancer stem cells in accordance with the methods compositions and combinations of the invention. Also neoplasia and or cancer stem cell monitoring can be employed in conjunction with any therapy for cancer according to the instant invention. Therapies e.g. therapeutic or prophylactic agents include but are not limited to peptides polypeptides fusion proteins nucleic acid molecules small molecules mimetic agents synthetic drugs inorganic molecules and organic molecules. Non limiting examples of cancer therapies include chemotherapies radiation therapies hormonal therapies anti angiogenesis therapies targeted therapies and or biological therapies including immunotherapies and surgery. In certain embodiments a prophylactically and or therapeutically effective regimen comprises the administration of a combination of therapies. In certain embodiments ORG 34517 can be administered as an agent to treat or prevent neoplasia alone or in combination with for example neoplasia treating agents. In certain embodiments RU486 mifepristone can be administered as an agent to treat or prevent neoplasia.

Examples of neoplasia agents or therapies include but are not limited to acivicin aclarubicin acodazole hydrochloride acronine adozelesin aldesleukin altretamine ambomycin ametantrone acetate aminoglutethimide amsacrine anastrozole anthracyclin anthramycin asparaginase asperlin azacitidine Vidaza azetepa azotomycin batimastat benzodepa bicalutamide bisantrene hydrochloride bisnafide dimesylate bisphosphonates e.g. pamidronate Aredria sodium clondronate Bonefos zoledronic acid Zometa alendronate Fosamax etidronate ibandornate cimadronate risedromate and tiludromate bizelesin bleomycin sulfate brequinar sodium bropirimine busulfan cactinomycin calusterone caracemide carbetimer carboplatin carmustine carubicin hydrochloride carzelesin cedefingol chlorambucil cirolemycin cisplatin cladribine crisnatol mesylate cyclophosphamide cytarabine Ara C dacarbazine dactinomycin daunorubicin hydrochloride decitabine Dacogen demethylation agents dexormaplatin dezaguanine dezaguanine mesylate diaziquone docetaxel doxorubicin doxorubicin hydrochloride droloxifene droloxifene citrate dromostanolone propionate duazomycin edatrexate eflornithine hydrochloride EphA2 inhibitors elsamitrucin enloplatin enpromate epipropidine epirubicin hydrochloride erbulozole esorubicin hydrochloride estramustine estramustine phosphate sodium etanidazole etoposide etoposide phosphate etoprine fadrozole hydrochloride fazarabine fenretinide floxuridine fludarabine phosphate fluorouracil fluorocitabine fosquidone fostriecin sodium gemcitabine gemcitabine hydrochloride histone deacetylase inhibitors HDAC Is hydroxyurea idarubicin hydrochloride ifosfamide ilmofosine imatinib mesylate Gleevec Glivec interleukin II including recombinant interleukin II or rIL2 interferon alpha 2a interferon alpha 2b interferon alpha n1 interferon alpha n3 interferon beta I a interferon gamma I b iproplatin irinotecan hydrochloride lanreotide acetate lenalidomide Revlimid letrozole leuprolide acetate liarozole hydrochloride lometrexol sodium lomustine losoxantrone hydrochloride masoprocol maytansine mechlorethamine hydrochloride anti CD2 antibodies e.g. siplizumab MedImmune Inc. International Publication No. WO 02 098370 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety megestrol acetate melengestrol acetate melphalan menogaril mercaptopurine methotrexate methotrexate sodium metoprine meturedepa mifepristone mitindomide mitocarcin mitocromin mitogillin mitomalcin mitomycin mitosper mitotane mitoxantrone hydrochloride mycophenolic acid nocodazole nogalamycin ORG 34517 ormaplatin oxaliplatin oxisuran paclitaxel pegaspargase peliomycin pentamustine peplomycin sulfate perfosfamide pipobroman piposulfan piroxantrone hydrochloride plicamycin plomestane porfimer sodium porfiromycin prednimustine procarbazine hydrochloride puromycin puromycin hydrochloride pyrazofurin riboprine rogletimide RU486 safingol safingol hydrochloride semustine simtrazene sparfosate sodium sparsomycin spirogermanium hydrochloride spiromustine spiroplatin streptonigrin streptozocin sulofenur talisomycin tecogalan sodium tegafur teloxantrone hydrochloride temoporfin teniposide teroxirone testolactone thiamiprine thioguanine thiotepa tiazofurin tirapazamine toremifene citrate trestolone acetate triciribine phosphate trimetrexate trimetrexate glucuronate triptorelin tubulozole hydrochloride uracil mustard uredepa vapreotide verteporfin vinblastine sulfate vincristine sulfate vindesine vindesine sulfate vinepidine sulfate vinglycinate sulfate vinleurosine sulfate vinorelbine tartrate vinrosidine sulfate vinzolidine sulfate vorozole zeniplatin zinostatin zorubicin hydrochloride.

Other examples of cancer therapies include but are not limited to 20 epi 1 25 dihydroxyvitamin D3 5 ethynyluracil abiraterone aclarubicin acylfulvene adecypenol adozelesin aldesleukin ALL TK antagonists altretamine ambamustine amidox amifostine aminolevulinic acid amrubicin amsacrine anagrelide anastrozole andrographolide angiogenesis inhibitors antagonist D antagonist G antarelix anti dorsalizing morphogenetic protein 1 antiandrogen prostatic carcinoma antiestrogen antineoplaston antisense oligonucleotides aphidicolin glycinate apoptosis gene modulators apoptosis regulators apurinic acid ara CDP DL PTBA arginine deaminase asulacrine atamestane atrimustine axinastatin 1 axinastatin 2 axinastatin 3 azasetron azatoxin aza osine baccatin III derivatives balanol batimastat BCR ABL antagonists benzochlorins benzoylstaurosporine beta lactam derivatives beta alethine betaclamycin B betulinic acid bFGF inhibitor bicalutamide bisantrene bisaziridinylspermine bisnafide bistratene A bizelesin breflate bropirimine budotitane buthionine sulfoximine calcipotriol calphostin C camptothecin derivatives canarypox IL 2 capecitabine carboxamide amino triazole carboxyamidotriazole CaRest M3 CARN 700 cartilage derived inhibitor carzelesin casein kinase inhibitors ICOS castanospermine cecropin B cetrorelix chlorins chloroquinoxaline sulfonamide cicaprost cis porphyrin cladribine clomifene analogues clotrimazole collismycin A collismycin B combretastatin A4 combretastatin analogue conagenin crambescidin 816 crisnatol cryptophycin 8 cryptophycin A derivatives curacin A cyclopentanthraquinones cycloplatam cypemycin cytarabine ocfosfate cytolytic factor cytostatin dacliximab decitabine dehydrodidemnin B deslorelin dexamethasone dexifosfamide dexrazoxane dexverapamil diaziquone didemnin B didox diethylnorspermine dihydro 5 azacytidine dihydrotaxol dioxamycin diphenyl spiromustine docetaxel docosanol dolasetron doxifluridine droloxifene dronabinol duocarmycin SA ebselen ecomustine edelfosine edrecolomab eflomithine elemene emitefur epirubicin epristeride estramustine analogue estrogen agonists estrogen antagonists etanidazole etoposide phosphate exemestane fadrozole fazarabine fenretinide filgrastim finasteride flavopiridol flezelastine fluasterone fludarabine fluorodaunorunicin hydrochloride forfenimex formestane fostriecin fotemustine gadolinium texaphyrin gallium nitrate galocitabine ganirelix gelatinase inhibitors gemcitabine glutathione inhibitors HMG CoA reductase inhibitors e.g. atorvastatin cerivastatin fluvastatin Lescol lupitor lovastatin rosuvastatin and simvastatin hepsulfam heregulin hexamethylene bisacetamide hypericin ibandronic acid idarubicin idoxifene idramantone ilmofosine ilomastat imidazoacridones imiquimod immunostimulant peptides insulin like growth factor 1 receptor inhibitor interferon agonists interferons interleukins iobenguane iododoxorubicin ipomeanol 4 iroplact irsogladine isobengazole isohomohalicondrin B itasetron jasplakinolide kahalalide F lamellarin N triacetate lanreotide leinamycin lenograstim lentinan sulfate leptolstatin letrozole leukemia inhibiting factor leukocyte alpha interferon leuprolide estrogen progesterone leuprorelin levamisole LFA 3TIP Biogen Cambridge Mass. International Publication No. WO 93 0686 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 162 432 liarozole linear polyamine analogue lipophilic disaccharide peptide lipophilic platinum compounds lissoclinamide 7 lobaplatin lombricine lometrexol lonidamine losoxantrone lovastatin loxoribine lurtotecan lutetium texaphyrin lysofylline lytic peptides maitansine mannostatin A marimastat masoprocol maspin matrilysin inhibitors matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors menogaril merbarone meterelin methioninase metoclopramide MIF inhibitor mifepristone miltefosine mirimostim mismatched double stranded RNA mitoguazone mitolactol mitomycin analogues mitonafide mitotoxin fibroblast growth factor saporin mitoxantrone mofarotene molgramostim monoclonal antibody human chorionic gonadotrophin monophosphoryl lipid A myobacterium cell wall sk mopidamol multiple drug resistance gene inhibitor multiple tumor suppressor 1 based therapy mustard anticancer agent mycaperoxide B mycobacterial cell wall extract myriaporone N acetyldinaline N substituted benzamides nafarelin nagrestip naloxone pentazocine napavin naphterpin nartograstim nedaplatin nemorubicin neridronic acid neutral endopeptidase nilutamide nisamycin nitric oxide modulators nitroxide antioxidant nitrullyn O6 benzylguanine octreotide okicenone oligonucleotides onapristone oracin oral cytokine inducer ormaplatin osaterone oxaliplatin oxaunomycin paclitaxel paclitaxel analogues paclitaxel derivatives palauamine palmitoylrhizoxin pamidronic acid panaxytriol panomifene parabactin pazelliptine pegaspargase peldesine pentosan polysulfate sodium pentostatin pentrozole perflubron perfosfamide perillyl alcohol phenazinomycin phenylacetate phosphatase inhibitors picibanil pilocarpine hydrochloride pirarubicin piritrexim placetin A placetin B plasminogen activator inhibitor platinum complex platinum compounds platinum triamine complex porfimer sodium porfiromycin prednisone propyl bis acridone prostaglandin J2 proteasome inhibitors protein A based immune modulator protein kinase C inhibitor protein kinase C inhibitors microalgal protein tyrosine phosphatase inhibitors purine nucleoside phosphorylase inhibitors purpurins pyrazoloacridine pyridoxylated hemoglobin polyoxyethylene raf antagonists raltitrexed ramosetron ras farnesyl protein transferase inhibitors ras inhibitors ras GAP inhibitor retelliptine demethylated rhenium Re 186 etidronate rhizoxin ribozymes RII retinamide rogletimide rohitukine romurtide roquinimex rubiginone B1 ruboxyl safingol saintopin SarCNU sarcophytol A sargramostim Sdi 1 mimetics semustine senescence derived inhibitor 1 sense oligonucleotides signal transduction inhibitors signal transduction modulators gamma secretase inhibitors single chain antigen binding protein sizofuran sobuzoxane sodium borocaptate sodium phenylacetate solverol somatomedin binding protein sonermin sparfosic acid spicamycin D spiromustine splenopentin spongistatin 1 squalamine stem cell inhibitor stem cell division inhibitors stipiamide stromelysin inhibitors sulfinosine superactive vasoactive intestinal peptide antagonist suradista suramin swainsonine synthetic glycosaminoglycans tallimustine 5 fluorouracil leucovorin tamoxifen methiodide tauromustine tazarotene tecogalan sodium tegafur tellurapyrylium telomerase inhibitors temoporfin temozolomide teniposide tetrachlorodecaoxide tetrazomine thaliblastine thiocoraline thrombopoietin thrombopoietin mimetic thymalfasin thymopoietin receptor agonist thymotrinan thyroid stimulating hormone tin ethyl etiopurpurin tirapazamine titanocene bichloride topsentin toremifene totipotent stem cell factor translation inhibitors tretinoin triacetyluridine triciribine trimetrexate triptorelin tropisetron turosteride tyrosine kinase inhibitors tyrphostins UBC inhibitors ubenimex urogenital sinus derived growth inhibitory factor urokinase receptor antagonists vapreotide variolin B vector system erythrocyte gene therapy thalidomide velaresol veramine verdins verteporfin vinorelbine vinxaltine anti integrin antibodies e.g. anti integrin abantibodies vorozole zanoterone zeniplatin zilascorb and zinostatin stimalamer.

A non limiting list of compounds that could be used to target cancer stem cells includes inhibitors of interleukin 3 receptor IL 3R and CD123 including peptides peptide conjugates antibodies antibody conjugates antibody fragments and antibody fragment conjugates that target IL 3R or CD123 cantharidin norcantharidin and analogs and derivatives thereof Notch pathway inhibitors including gamma secretase inhibitors sonic hedgehog smoothened pathway inhibitors including cyclopamine and analogs thereof antibodies to CD96 certain NF kB proteasome inhibitors including parthenolide and analogs thereof certain triterpenes including celastrol certain mTOR inhibitors compounds and antibodies that target the urokinase receptor sinefungin certain inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase IMPDH inhibitors PPAR alpha and PPAR gamma agonists and antagonists including piogliazone tesaslitazar muraglitazar peliglitazar lobeglitazone balaglitazone ragaglitazar rosiglitazone farglitazar sodelglitazar reglitazar naveglitazar oxeglitazar metaglidasen netoglitazone darglitazone englitazone thiazolidinediones aleglitazar edaglitazone rivoglitazone troglitazone imiglitazar and sipoglitazar telomerase inhibitors antibodies to EpCAM ESA GSK 3 beta agonists and antagonists including Lithium 6 bromoinirubin 3 oxime BIO TDZD8 Wnt pathway inhibitors including antibodies to frizzled or small molecules that inhibit disheveled frizzled or beta catenin anti CD20 antibodies and conjugates e.g. Rituxan Bexxar Zevalin for novel use in multiple myeloma or melanoma anti CD133 antibody anti CD44 antibody antibodies to IL 4 certain differentiation agents such as versnarinone compounds that target CD33 such as an antibody or betulinic acid compounds that target lactadherin such as an antibody small molecules or antibodies that target CXCR4 or SDF 1 small molecules or antibodies that target multi drug resistance pumps inhibitors of survivin inhibitors of XIAP small molecules that target Bcl 2 antibodies to CLL 1 and furin inhibitors such as cucurbitacins .

An additional non limiting list of compounds that could also be used to target cancer and or cancer stem cells includes i antibodies antibody fragments and proteins that are either naked or conjugated to a therapeutic moiety that target certain cell surface targets on cancer stem cells or ii small molecules known in the art including ones that can be further optimized e.g. via chemistry or identified via a cancer stem cell based screen e.g. such as one that would determine whether a compound impairs proliferation or viability of a cancer stem cell through standard methods the cell surface and intracellular targets including not meant to be exhaustive are Rex1 Zfp42 CTGF Activin A Wnt FGF 2 HIF 1 AP 2gamma Bmi 1 nucleostemin hiwi Moz TIF2 Nanog beta arrestin 2 Oct 4 Sox2 stella GDF3 RUNX3 EBAF TDGF 1 nodal ZFPY PTNE Evi 1 Pax3 Mcl 1 c kit Lex 1 Zfx lactadherin aldehyde dehydrogenase BCRP telomerase CD133 Bcl 2 CD26 Gremlin and FoxC2.

In some embodiments the therapy ies is an immunomodulatory agent. Non limiting examples of immunomodulatory agents include proteinaceous agents such as cytokines peptide mimetics and antibodies e.g. human humanized chimeric monoclonal polyclonal Fvs ScFvs Fab or F ab 2 fragments or epitope binding fragments nucleic acid molecules e.g. antisense nucleic acid molecules and triple helices small molecules organic compounds and inorganic compounds. In particular immunomodulatory agents include but are not limited to methotrexate leflunomide cyclophosphamide cytoxan Immuran cyclosporine A minocycline azathioprine antibiotics e.g. FK506 tacrolimus methylprednisolone corticosteroids steroids mycophenolate mofetil rapamycin sirolimus mizoribine deoxyspergualin brequinar malononitriloamides e.g. leflunomide T cell receptor modulators cytokine receptor modulators and modulators mast cell modulators. Other examples of immunomodulatory agents can be found e.g. in U.S. Publication No. 2005 0002934 A1 at paragraphs 259 275 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In one embodiment the immunomodulatory agent is a chemotherapeutic agent. In an alternative embodiment the immunomodulatory agent is an immunomodulatory agent other than a chemotherapeutic agent. In some embodiments the therapy ies used in accordance with the invention is not an immunomodulatory agent.

In some embodiments the therapy ies is an anti angiogenic agent. Non limiting examples of anti angiogenic agents include proteins polypeptides peptides fusion proteins antibodies e.g. human humanized chimeric monoclonal polyclonal Fvs ScFvs Fab fragments F ab fragments and antigen binding fragments thereof such as antibodies that specifically bind to TNF alpha nucleic acid molecules e.g. antisense molecules or triple helices organic molecules inorganic molecules and small molecules that reduce or inhibit angiogenesis. Other examples of anti angiogenic agents can be found e.g. in U.S. Publication No. 2005 0002934 A1 at paragraphs 277 282 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. In other embodiments the therapy ies is not an anti angiogenic agent.

In certain embodiments the therapy ies is an alkylating agent a nitrosourea an antimetabolite and anthracyclin a topoisomerase II inhibitor or a mitotic inhibitor. Alkylating agents include but are not limited to busulfan cisplatin carboplatin chlorambucil cyclophosphamide ifosfamide decarbazine mechlorethamine mephalen and themozolomide. Nitrosoureas include but are not limited to carmustine BCNU and lomustine CCNU . Antimetabolites include but are not limited to 5 fluorouracil capecitabine methotrexate gemcitabine cytarabine and fludarabine. Anthracyclins include but are not limited to daunorubicin doxorubicin epirubicin idarubicin and mitoxantrone. Topoisomerase II inhibitors include but are not limited to topotecan irinotecan etopiside VP 16 and teniposide. Mitotic inhibitors include but are not limited to taxanes paclitaxel docetaxel and the vinca alkaloids vinblastine vincristine and vinorelbine . In some embodiments of the invention the therapy ies includes the administration cantharidin or an analog thereof. The invention includes the use of agents that target cancer stem cells. In certain embodiments the agent acts alone. In other embodiments the agent is attached directly or indirectly to another therapeutic moiety. Non limiting examples of therapeutic moieties include but are not limited to alkylating agents anti metabolites plant alkaloids cytotoxic agents chemotherapeutic agents e.g. a steroid cytosine arabinoside fluoruracil methotrexate aminopterin mitomycin C demecolcine etoposide mithramycin calicheamicin CC 1065 chlorambucil or melphalan radionuclides therapeutic enzymes cytokines toxins including plant derived toxins fungus derived toxins bacteria derived toxin e.g. deglycosylated ricin A chain a ribosome inactivating protein alpha sarcin aspergillin restirictocin a ribonuclease a diphtheria toxin exotoxin a bacterial endotoxin or the lipid A moiety of a bacterial endotoxin growth modulators and RNase. In some embodiments the agent used is an agent that binds to a marker e.g. an antigen on a cancer stem cell. In a specific embodiment the agent binds to an antigen that is expressed at a greater level on cancer stem cells than on normal stem cells. In a specific embodiment the agent binds specifically to a cancer stem cell antigen that is not a normal stem cell. In other embodiments the therapy ies is an agent that binds to a marker on cancer stem cells. In one embodiment the agent that binds to a marker on cancer stem cells is an antibody or an antibody conjugated to a therapeutic moiety or an antibody fragment conjugated to a therapeutic moiety.

For example in a specific embodiment the agent binds specifically to the IL 3 Receptor IL 3R . In some embodiments the agent that binds to the IL 3R is an antibody or an antibody fragment that is specific for IL 3R. In some embodiments the antibody or antibody fragment is conjugated either chemically or via recombinant technology to a therapeutic moiety e.g. a chemotherapeutic agent a plant fungus or bacteria derived toxin a radionuclide using a linking agent to effect a cell killing response. In certain embodiments the antibody antibody conjugate antibody fragment or antibody fragment conjugate binds to the .alpha. subunit of IL 3R i.e. the CD123 antigen . In other embodiments the antibody antibody conjugate antibody fragment or antibody fragment conjugate binds to the IL 3R containing both the .alpha. and .beta. subunits. Methods for preparing antibodies to IL 3R and mimetics of antibodies to IL 3R are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 733 743 B2 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In other embodiments the agent that binds to a marker on cancer stem cells is a ligand. In some embodiments the ligand is a cytokine that binds to a cytokine receptor on cancer stem cells. In a particular embodiment the ligand is interleukin 3 IL 3 which can be conjugated to a therapeutic moiety that includes a chemotherapeutic agent a plant fungus or bacteria derived toxin or a radionuclide. The IL 3 conjugate prophylactic and or therapeutic therapy or regimen can be in the form of a recombinant fusion protein in embodiments where the conjugate is a toxin and the toxin is a protein such as diphtheria toxin. Methods for preparing and isolating an IL 3 diphtheria toxin fusion protein IL3DT are described in Frankel et al. Diphtheria toxin fused to human interleukin 3 is toxic to blasts from patients with myeloid leukemias Leukemia 14 576 2000 and Urieto et al. Protein Expression and Purification 33 123 133 2004 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference in their entireties.

In certain embodiments antibodies or fragments thereof that bind to a marker on cancer stem cells are substantially non immunogenic in the treated subject. Methods for obtaining non immunogenic antibodies include but are not limited to chimerizing the antibody humanizing the antibody and isolating antibodies from the same species as the subject receiving the therapy. Antibodies or fragments thereof that bind to markers in cancer stem cells can be produced using techniques known in the art. See for example paragraphs 539 573 of U.S. Publication No. 2005 0002934 A1 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In some embodiments the therapy comprises the use of X rays gamma rays and other sources of radiation to destroy cancer stem cells and or cancer cells. In specific embodiments the radiation therapy is administered as external beam radiation or teletherapy wherein the radiation is directed from a remote source. In other embodiments the radiation therapy is administered as internal therapy or brachytherapy wherein a radioactive source is placed inside the body close to cancer stem cells cancer cells and or a tumor mass.

In some embodiments the therapy used is a proliferation based therapy. Non limiting examples of such therapies include a chemotherapy and radiation therapy as described supra.

Currently available therapies and their dosages routes of administration and recommended usage are known in the art and have been described in such literature as the Physician s Desk Reference 60th ed. 2006 .

In a specific embodiment cycling therapy involves the administration of a first cancer therapeutic for a period of time followed by the administration of a second cancer therapeutic for a period of time optionally followed by the administration of a third cancer therapeutic for a period of time and so forth and repeating this sequential administration i.e. the cycle in order to reduce the development of resistance to one of the cancer therapeutics to avoid or reduce the side effects of one of the cancer therapeutics and or to improve the efficacy of the cancer therapeutics.

When two prophylactically and or therapeutically effective regimens are administered to a subject concurrently the term concurrently is not limited to the administration of the cancer therapeutics at exactly the same time but rather it is meant that they are administered to a subject in a sequence and within a time interval such that they can act together e.g. synergistically to provide an increased benefit than if they were administered otherwise . For example the cancer therapeutics may be administered at the same time or sequentially in any order at different points in time however if not administered at the same time they should be administered sufficiently close in time so as to provide the desired therapeutic effect preferably in a synergistic fashion. The combination cancer therapeutics can be administered separately in any appropriate form and by any suitable route. When the components of the combination cancer therapeutics are not administered in the same pharmaceutical composition it is understood that they can be administered in any order to a subject in need thereof. For example a first prophylactically and or therapeutically effective regimen can be administered prior to e.g. 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 45 minutes 1 hour 2 hours 4 hours 6 hours 12 hours 24 hours 48 hours 72 hours 96 hours 1 week 2 weeks 3 weeks 4 weeks 5 weeks 6 weeks 8 weeks or 12 weeks before concomitantly with or subsequent to e.g. 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 45 minutes 1 hour 2 hours 4 hours 6 hours 12 hours 24 hours 48 hours 72 hours 96 hours 1 week 2 weeks 3 weeks 4 weeks 5 weeks 6 weeks 8 weeks or 12 weeks after the administration of the second cancer therapeutic to a subject in need thereof. In various embodiments the cancer therapeutics are administered 1 minute apart 10 minutes apart 30 minutes apart less than 1 hour apart 1 hour apart 1 hour to 2 hours apart 2 hours to 3 hours apart 3 hours to 4 hours apart 4 hours to 5 hours apart 5 hours to 6 hours apart 6 hours to 7 hours apart 7 hours to 8 hours apart 8 hours to 9 hours apart 9 hours to 10 hours apart 10 hours to 11 hours apart 11 hours to 12 hours apart no more than 24 hours apart or no more than 48 hours apart. In one embodiment the cancer therapeutics are administered within the same office visit. In another embodiment the combination cancer therapeutics are administered at 1 minute to 24 hours apart.

In a specific embodiment the combination therapies have the same mechanism of action. In another specific embodiment the combination therapies each have a different mechanism of action.

While the invention has been described in detail and with reference to specific examples thereof it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various changes and modifications can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope thereof.

