---

title: Providing social impact information associated with identified products or businesses
abstract: Embodiments of the invention are directed to methods and apparatuses for capturing a real-time video stream using a mobile computing device, determining, using a computing device processor, which images from the real-time video stream are associated with goods and businesses consistent with a predetermined social impact, and presenting on a display of the real-time video stream, one or more indicators, each indicator being associated with an image determined to be consistent with a predetermined social impact.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09530145&OS=09530145&RS=09530145
owner: BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
number: 09530145
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160519
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 342 055 filed Jan. 1 2012 of the same title which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 450 213 filed Mar. 8 2011 entitled Real Time Video Image Analysis Applications for Commerce Activity and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 478 403 filed Apr. 22 2011 entitled Providing Social Impact Information Associated with Identified Products or Businesses the entirety of each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Modern handheld mobile devices such as smart phones and the like combine multiple technologies to provide the user with a vast array of capabilities. For example many smart phones are equipped with significant processing power sophisticated multi tasking operating systems and high bandwidth Internet connection capabilities. Moreover such devices often have additional features that are becoming increasingly more common as standardized features. Such features include but are not limited to location determining devices such as Global Positioning System GPS devices sensor devices such as accelerometers and high resolution video cameras.

As the hardware capabilities of such mobile devices have increased so to have the applications i.e. software that rely on the hardware advances. One such example of innovative software is a category known as augmented reality AR or more generally referred to as mediated reality. One such example of an AR application platform is Layar available from Layar Amsterdam the Netherlands.

The Layar platform technology analyzes location data compass direction data and the like in combination with information related to the objects locations or the like in the video stream to create browse able hot spots or tags that are superimposed on the mobile device display resulting in an experience described as reality browsing .

Consumers are also increasingly interested in the social impact of the products they purchase and the businesses they frequent. For example many consumers are interested in the environmental impact created by the manufacture and sale of the products and services they purchase some consumers are interested in purchasing goods and services produced locally or from a specific geographic location others desire to purchase goods that have not been manufactured with child labor or that incorporate resources from a specific geographic location. It can be difficult for consumers to identify the social impact of specific products and businesses at the point where and when most purchasing decisions are made such as when comparing products in a store or walking down a street and trying to determine which service provider s store to enter.

Therefore a need exists to implement real time video analysis i.e. AR or the like to assist the user of mobile devices with providing the social impact of specific goods and services.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments of the present invention in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Methods apparatus systems and computer program products are described herein that provide for using real time video analysis such as AR or the like to assist the user of mobile devices with identifying products and businesses that are consistent with the user s social values. Through the use of real time image object recognition objects logos artwork products text locations and other features that can be recognized in a real time video stream can be matched to data associated with such objects to assist the user with identifying the social impact of specific products and businesses. In specific embodiments the data that is used to match to the images in the real time video stream is specific to financial institutions such as customer financial behavior history customer purchase power transaction history and the like. In this regard some of the embodiments herein disclosed utilize financial institution data which is uniquely specific to financial institutions in providing information to mobile devices users in connection with real time video stream analysis. These embodiments are exemplary.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more embodiments. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and this description is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents.

Some embodiments of the present invention provide a method wherein one or more goods or service providers proximate in location to a mobile device are identified by a processor e.g. the processor of the mobile device . It is then determined which goods or service providers proximate in location to the mobile device are consistent with a predetermined social impact. The mobile device then presents on a display the one or more indicators associated with a good or service provider determined to be consistent with the predetermined social impact profile. In certain embodiments identifying one or more goods or service providers involves capturing via the mobile device a real time video stream wherein the real time video stream includes at least one image of a good or service provider. In such embodiments the processor may implement object recognition processing to identify the goods or service providers within the real time video stream.

In other embodiments identifying one or more goods or service providers involves capturing a code located on or proximate to one or more products or service providers wherein the code identifies the product or service provider. In yet other embodiments the one or more goods or service providers consistent with a predetermined social impact are identified by receiving via the mobile device wireless communication from a product identifying tag or service provider tag associated with the goods or service provider. Consistent with certain embodiments identifying one or more goods or service providers further comprises determining the location of the mobile device and determining via the processor the one or more goods or service providers based on the determined location.

In certain embodiments the mobile device is a mobile phone. In some embodiments the real time video stream is captured by the same mobile device that presents the one or more indicators.

In some embodiments of the invention determining which goods or service providers proximate in location to the mobile device are consistent with a predetermined social impact involves the steps of using a device to collect data concerning the social values of importance to the user e.g. current or aggregate of data of importance to the user and using a processor to generate a social impact profile for the user based on the collected data. In some embodiments the processor then identifies the goods and service providers captured in a real time video stream correlates those goods and service providers to information regarding the social impact of the goods and service providers and compares the information regarding the social impact of the goods and service providers to the social impact profile of the user.

Consistent with certain embodiments of the invention the method for collecting data concerning the social values of greatest importance to the user can involve using a computer or mobile device for collecting user defined data concerning the social values of importance to the user. The user defined data may include among other things responses to survey questions and search terms provided by the user for correlation to the goods and service providers identified in the real time video stream.

In some embodiments the method for collecting data concerning the social values of greatest importance to the user comprises utilizing a processor to analyze the purchasing behavior of the user and identify the social values of importance to the user from the user s purchasing behavior. Such purchasing behavior may comprise financial records available to a financial institution.

In some embodiments of the invention the method for collecting data concerning the social values of greatest importance to the user can involve collecting personal data associated with the user via a processor and identifying the social values of importance to the user from the collected personal data. Such personal data may comprise data available to a financial institution such as data available in financial records held by a financial institution.

In certain embodiments presenting one or more indicators on the display of a mobile device wherein each indicator is associated with a good or service provider proximate in location to the mobile device determined to be consistent with the predetermined social impact comprises superimposing the indicator over the real time video stream presented on the display. In some embodiments the indicators are selectable by the user. Selecting the indicators may in some embodiments present the user with additional information about the goods or service provider or present the user with an option to purchase via the mobile device one or more of the goods or a service provided by the service provider.

Embodiments of the invention also provide an apparatus where the apparatus has a device for capturing a real time video stream a processor operably connected to the device and configured to determine which images from the real time video stream are associated with goods or service providers consistent with a predetermined social impact profile and a display operably connected to the processor for presenting the real time video stream with one or more indicators each indicator being associated with an image determined to be consistent with the predetermined social impact profile.

In some embodiments of the invention the processor is further configured to collect data concerning the social values of importance to the user that data is collected in some embodiments through user defined data in some embodiments by analyzing the purchasing behavior of the user and in some embodiments by collecting personal data associated with the user. The processor is also configured to use the collected data to generate a social impact profile for the user identify goods and service providers captured in the real time video stream correlate the goods and service providers to information regarding the social impact of each good and business and assign the goods and businesses a social impact profile. Then the processor correlates the social impact provider for the user to the social impact profile of the goods or service provider. In certain embodiments the social impact of the goods or service providers comprise one or more of an environmental impact nature of production product attributes business attributes or charitable activities. The user defined data in certain embodiments will be responses to survey questions or search terms inputted by the user along with the user s desired correlation between the inputted search terms and the goods or service providers. The apparatus may collect data concerning the social values of importance to the user through purchasing behavior wherein such data comprises the financial records available to a financial institution. In certain embodiments the apparatus may collect data concerning the social values of importance to the user by collecting personal data associated with the user such as data available to a financial institution.

In certain embodiments of the apparatus the one or more indicators presented on the display are superimposed over the real time video stream presented on the display. In some embodiments the indicators are selectable by the user and may present the user with additional information about the goods or service provider or present the user with an option to purchase via the device one or more of the goods or a service provided by the service provider.

Embodiments of the invention also provide a computer program product comprising a non transitory computer readable medium having computer executable code stored thereon. In one embodiment the computer executable code includes a first code portion configured to capture via a mobile device a real time video stream a second code portion configured to determine which images from the real time video stream are associated with goods or service providers consistent with a predetermined social impact profile and a third code portion configured to present on a display the real time video stream with one or more indicators each indicator associated with an image determined to be consistent with the predetermined social impact profile.

In certain embodiments the second code portion of the computer program product is further configured to collect data concerning the social values of importance to the user generate a social impact profile for the user and identify the goods and service providers captured in the real time video stream. The second code portion may then correlate the goods or service providers identified in the video stream to information regarding the social impact of the goods and service providers and compare the information regarding the social impact of the goods and service providers to the social impact profile of the user.

The features functions and advantages that have been discussed may be achieved independently in various embodiments of the present invention or may be combined with yet other embodiments further details of which can be seen with reference to the following description and drawings

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more embodiments. It may be evident however that such embodiment s may be practiced without these specific details. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Various embodiments or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

The steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some embodiments the processor and the storage medium may reside in an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a computing device. Additionally in some embodiments the events and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Thus methods systems computer programs and the like are herein disclosed that provide for using real time video analysis such as AR or the like to assist the user of mobile devices with identifying social impact information of certain products and businesses. It will be understood that social impact as used herein generally refers to how a product or business affects a given community or society as a whole. A product or businesses social impact can include but is not limited to its environmental impact including carbon footprint i.e. the amount of carbon dioxide emitted due to the consumption of fossil fuels use of renewable resources reliance on fossil fuels associated waste or pollution etc. the nature of production including the country of origin types of workers compliance with labor laws history of employment abuses etc. product attributes including whether the product is organic or incorporates known carcinogens etc. business attributes including ownership of the business such as whether the business is locally owned minority owned publicly traded etc. and the charitable activities of a business such as involvement in the community support of specific charities corporate donations etc. and the like. A social impact profile as used herein refers to a categorization of a user product or business to a grouping or classification that is correlated to data related to a user s social values or the social impact of a given product or business. Such a categorization can take the form of a numerical ranking indexing grading grouping typology or other organization that enables an objective comparison or correlation of social impact information.

The methods systems computers programs and the like disclosed herein use real time vision object recognition objects logos artwork products text locations and other features that can be recognized in the real time video stream and can be matched to data associated with such to assist the user with identifying the social impact of specific products and businesses. In specific embodiments the data that is used to match the images in the real time video stream is specific to financial institutions such as customer financial behavior history customer purchase power transaction history and the like. In this regard many of the embodiments herein disclosed leverage financial institution data which is uniquely specific to financial institution in providing information to mobile devices users in connection with real time video stream analysis.

While embodiments discussed herein are generally described with respect to real time video streams or real time video it will be appreciated that the video stream may be captured and stored for later viewing and analysis. Indeed in some embodiments video is recorded and stored on a mobile device and portions or the entirety of the video may be analyzed at a later time. The later analysis may be conducted on the mobile device or loaded onto a different device for analysis. The portions of the video that may be stored and analyzed may range from a single frame of video e.g. a screenshot to the entirety of the video. Additionally rather than video the user may opt to take a still picture of the environment to be analyzed immediately or at a later time. Embodiments in which real time video recorded video or still pictures are analyzed are contemplated herein.

The mobile device may generally include a processor communicably coupled to such components as a memory user output devices user input devices a network interface a power source a clock or other timer a camera a positioning system device one or more integrated circuits etc.

In some embodiments the mobile device and or the server access one or more databases or datastores not shown in to search for and or retrieve information related to an object and or marker as discussed herein. In some embodiments the mobile device and or the server access one or more datastores local to the mobile device and or server and in other embodiments the mobile device and or server access datastores remote to the mobile device and or server. In some embodiments the mobile device and or server access both a memory and or datastore local to the mobile device and or server as well as a datastore remote from the mobile device and or server

The processor and other processors described herein may generally include circuitry for implementing communication and or logic functions of the mobile device . For example the processor may include a digital signal processor device a microprocessor device and various analog to digital converters digital to analog converters and or other support circuits. Control and signal processing functions of the mobile device may be allocated between these devices according to their respective capabilities. The processor thus may also include the functionality to encode and interleave messages and data prior to modulation and transmission. The processor may additionally include an internal data modem. Further the processor may include functionality to operate one or more software programs or applications which may be stored in the memory . For example the processor may be capable of operating a connectivity program such as a web browser application . The web browser application may then allow the mobile device to transmit and receive web content such as for example location based content and or other web page content according to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and or the like.

The processor may also be capable of operating applications such as an object recognition application . The object recognition application may be downloaded from a server and stored in the memory of the mobile device . Alternatively the object recognition application may be pre installed and stored in a memory in the integrated circuit . In such an embodiment the user may not need to download the object recognition application from a server. In some embodiments the processor may also be capable of operating one or more applications functioning as an artificial intelligence AI engine. The processor may recognize objects that it has identified in prior uses by way of the AI engine. In this way the processor may recognize specific objects and or classes of objects and store information related to the recognized objects in one or more memories and or databases discussed herein. Once the AI engine has thereby learned of an objection and or class of objects the AI engine may run concurrently with and or collaborate with other modules or applications described herein to perform the various steps of the methods discussed. For example in some embodiments the AI engine recognizes an object that has been recognized before and stored by the AI engine. The AI engine may then communicate to another application or module of the mobile device an indication that the object may be the same object previously recognized. IN this regard the AI engine may provide a baseline or starting point from which to determine the nature of the object. In other embodiments the AI engine s recognition of an object is accepted as the final recognition of the object.

The integrated circuit may include the necessary circuitry to provide the object recognition functionality to the mobile device . Generally the integrated circuit will include data storage which may include data associated with the objects within a real time video stream that the object recognition application identifies as having certain marker s discussed in relation to . The integrated circuit and or data storage may be an integrated circuit a microprocessor a system on a chip a microcontroller or the like. As discussed above in one embodiment the integrated circuit may provide the object recognition functionality to the mobile device .

Of note while illustrates the integrated circuit as a separate and distinct element within the mobile device it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the object recognition functionality of the integrated circuit may be incorporated within other elements in the mobile device . For instance the object recognition functionality of the integrated circuit may be incorporated within the mobile device memory and or processor . In a particular embodiment the object recognition functionality of the integrated circuit is incorporated in an element within the mobile device that provides object recognition capabilities to the mobile device . Moreover the functionality may be part of the firmware of the mobile device . Still further the object recognition functionality of the integrated circuit may be included in a removable storage device such as an SD card or the like.

The processor may be configured to use the network interface to communicate with one or more other devices on a network. In this regard the network interface may include an antenna operatively coupled to a transmitter and a receiver together a transceiver . The processor may be configured to provide signals to and receive signals from the transmitter and receiver respectively. The signals may include signaling information in accordance with the air interface standard of the applicable cellular system of the wireless telephone network that may be part of the network. In this regard the mobile device may be configured to operate with one or more air interface standards communication protocols modulation types and access types. By way of illustration the mobile device may be configured to operate in accordance with any of a number of first second third and or fourth generation communication protocols and or the like. For example the mobile device may be configured to operate in accordance with second generation 2G wireless communication protocols IS 136 time division multiple access TDMA GSM global system for mobile communication and or IS 95 code division multiple access CDMA or with third generation 3G wireless communication protocols such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS CDMA2000 wideband CDMA WCDMA and or time division synchronous CDMA TD SCDMA with fourth generation 4G wireless communication protocols and or the like. The mobile device may also be configured to operate in accordance with non cellular communication mechanisms such as via a wireless local area network WLAN or other communication data networks.

The network interface may also include an object recognition interface in order to allow a user to execute some or all of the above described processes with respect to the object recognition application and or the integrated circuit . The object recognition interface may have access to the hardware e.g. the transceiver and software previously described with respect to the network interface . Furthermore the object recognition interface may have the ability to connect to and communicate with an external data storage on a separate system within the network as a means of recognizing the object s in the video stream.

As described above the mobile device may have a user interface that includes user output devices and or user input devices . The user output devices may include a display e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or the like and a speaker or other audio device which are operatively coupled to the processor . The user input devices which may allow the mobile device to receive data from a user may include any of a number of devices allowing the mobile device to receive data from a user such as a keypad keyboard touch screen touchpad microphone mouse joystick stylus other pointer device button soft key and or other input device s .

The mobile device may further include a power source . Generally the power source is a device that supplies electrical energy to an electrical load. In one embodiment power source may convert a form of energy such as solar energy chemical energy mechanical energy etc. to electrical energy. Generally the power source in a mobile device may be a battery such as a lithium battery a nickel metal hydride battery or the like that is used for powering various circuits e.g. the transceiver circuit and other devices that are used to operate the mobile device . Alternatively the power source may be a power adapter that can connect a power supply from a power outlet to the mobile device . In such embodiments a power adapter may be classified as a power source in the mobile device.

The mobile device may also include a memory operatively coupled to the processor . As used herein memory may include any computer readable medium configured to store data code or other information. The memory may include volatile memory such as volatile Random Access Memory RAM including a cache area for the temporary storage of data. The memory may also include non volatile memory which can be embedded and or may be removable. The non volatile memory may additionally or alternatively include an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or the like.

The memory may store any of a number of applications or programs which comprise computer executable instructions code executed by the processor to implement the functions of the mobile device described herein. For example the memory may include such applications as an AR application described herein in relation to a web browser application an SMS application an email application an object recognition application etc.

Referring to a block diagram illustrating an object recognition experience in which a user utilizes a mobile device to capture real time video of an environment is shown. As denoted earlier the mobile device may be any mobile communication device. The mobile device has the capability of capturing real time video of the surrounding environment . The real time video capture may be by any means known in the art. In one particular embodiment the mobile device is a mobile telephone equipped with a camera capable of video capture.

The environment contains a number of objects . Some of such objects may include a marker identifiable to the mobile device . A marker may be anything that is a distinguishing feature that can be interpreted by the mobile device to identify specific objects . For instance a marker may be alpha numeric characters symbols logos shapes ratio of size of one feature to another feature a product identifying code such as a bar code electromagnetic radiation such as radio waves e.g. radio frequency identification RFID architectural features color etc. In some embodiments the marker may be audio and the mobile device may be capable of utilizing audio recognition to identify words or unique sounds broadcast. The marker may be any size shape etc. Indeed in some embodiments the marker may be very small relative to the object such as the alpha numeric characters that identify the name or model of an object whereas in other embodiments the marker is the entire object such as the unique shape size structure etc. of the object .

In some embodiments the marker is not actually a physical marker located on or being broadcast by the object. For instance the marker may be some type of identifiable feature that is an indication that the object is nearby. In some embodiments the marker for an object may actually be the marker for a different object e.g. a tag or placard near the object . In some embodiments the marker for an object may actually be the marker for a different object . For example the mobile device may recognize a particular building as being Building A. Data stored in the data storage may indicate that Building B is located directly to the east and next to Building A. Thus markers for an object that are not located on or being broadcast by the object are generally based on fixed facts about the object e.g. Building B is next to Building A . However it is not a requirement that such a marker be such a fixed fact. The marker may be anything that enables the mobile device to interpret to a desired confidence level what the object is. For another example the mobile device object recognition application and or AR application may be used to identify a particular person as a first character from a popular television program and thereafter utilize the information that the first character is nearby features of other characters to interpret that a second character a third character etc. are nearby whereas without the identification of the first character the features of the second and third characters may not have been used to identify the second and third characters. This example may be applied to objects or businesses rather than people.

The marker may also be or include social network data such as data retrieved or communicated from the Internet such as micro blog entries blog posts social networking site posts various types of messages and or the like. In other embodiments the marker is provided in addition to social network data as mentioned above. For example the mobile device may capture a video stream and or one or more still shots including a large gathering of people. In this example as above one or more people dressed as characters in costume may be present at a specified location. The mobile device object recognition application and or AR application may identify several social network indicators such as posts blogs micro blog entries messages and or the like indicating the presence of one or more of the specific characters at the specified location. In this way the mobile device and associated applications may communicate information regarding the social media communications to the user and or use the information regarding the social media communications in conjunction with other methods of object recognition. For example the mobile device object recognition application and or AR application performing recognition of the characters at the specified location may confirm that the object being identified is in fact the correct character based on the retrieved social media communications. This example may also be applied to objects or businesses rather than people.

In some embodiments the mobile device and or server accesses one or more other servers social media networks applications and or the like in order to retrieve and or search for information useful in performing object recognition. In some embodiments the mobile device and or server accesses another application by way of an application programming interface or API. In this regard the mobile device and or server may quickly search and or retrieve information from the other program without requiring additional authentication steps or other gateway steps.

While illustrates that the objects with markers only include a single marker it will be appreciated that the object may have any number of markers with each equally capable of identifying the object . Similarly multiple markers may be identified by the mobile device such that the combination of the markers may be utilized to identify the object . For example the mobile device may utilize facial recognition markers to identify a person and utilize a separate marker such as the clothes the person is wearing to confirm the identification to the desired confidence level that the person is in fact the person the mobile device identified. For example the facial recognition marker may identify the person as a famous athlete and utilize the uniform the person is wearing to confirm that the identified person is in fact the famous athlete.

In some embodiments a marker may be the location of the object . In such embodiments the mobile device may utilize Global Positioning System GPS hardware and or software or some other location determining mechancim to determine the location of the user and or object . As noted above a location based marker could be utilized in conjunction with other non location based markers identifiable and recognized by the mobile device to identify the object . However in some embodiments a location based marker may be the only marker . For instance in such embodiments the mobile device may utilize GPS software to determine the location of the user and a compass device or software to determine what direction the mobile device is facing in order to identify the object . In still further embodiments the mobile device does not utilize any GPS data in the identification. In such embodiments markers utilized to identify the object are not location based.

The mobile device may use any type of means in order to identify desired objects . For instance the object recognition application may utilize one or more pattern recognition algorithms to analyze objects in the environment and compare with markers in data storage which may be contained within the mobile device such as within the integrated circuit or externally on a separate system accessible via the connected network. For example the pattern recognition algorithms may include decision trees logistic regression Bayes classifiers support vector machines kernel estimation perceptrons clustering algorithms regression algorithms categorical sequence labeling algorithms real valued sequence labeling algorithms parsing algorithms general algorithms for predicting arbitrarily structured labels such as Bayesian networks and Markov random fields ensemble learning algorithms such as bootstrap aggregating boosting ensemble averaging combinations thereof and the like.

Upon identifying an object within the real time video stream the mobile device in some embodiments by utilizing the AR application is configured to superimpose a virtual image on the mobile device display . The virtual image is generally a tab or link displayed such that the user may select the virtual image and retrieve information related to the identified object. The information may include any desired information associated with the selected object and may range from basic information to greatly detailed information. In some embodiments the virtual image may provide the user with an internet hyperlink to further information on the object . The information may include for example all types of media such as text images clipart video clips movies or any other type of information desired. In yet other embodiments the virtual image information related to the identified object may be visualized by the user without selecting the virtual image .

In embodiments in which the virtual image provides an interactive tab to the user the user may select the virtual image by any conventional means for interaction with the mobile device . For instance in some embodiments the user may utilize an input device such as a keyboard to highlight and select the virtual image in order to retrieve the information. In a particular embodiment the mobile device display includes a touch screen that the user may employ to select the virtual image utilizing the user s finger a stylus or the like.

In some embodiments selecting the virtual image will cause the AR Application to present the user with the opportunity to purchase the object associated with the virtual image. In some instances the order functionality may be a part of the AR Application . In other embodiments the AR Application may access the user s accounts associated with a financial institution enabling the user to purchase the object without having to input data such as a credit card number of billing address. In other embodiments when the user selects the virtual image to purchase the product the AR Application will activate the web browser application to allow the user to purchase the product over the Internet from a website associated with the object .

In some embodiments the virtual image is not interactive and simply provides information to the user by superimposing the virtual image onto the display . For example in some instances it may be beneficial for the AR application to merely identify an object providing the object s name title and giving brief information about the object etc. rather than provide extensive detail that requires interaction with the virtual image . The mobile device is capable of being tailored to a user s desired preferences.

Furthermore the virtual image may be displayed at any size on the mobile device display . The virtual image may be small enough that it is positioned on or next to the object being identified such that the object remains discernable behind the virtual image . Additionally the virtual image may be semi transparent such that the object remains discernable behind the virtual image. In other embodiments the virtual image may be large enough to completely cover the object portrayed on the display . Indeed in some embodiments the virtual image may cover a majority or the entirety of the mobile device display .

The user may opt to execute the object recognition application and AR application at any desired moment and begin video capture and analysis. However in some embodiments the object recognition application and the AR application includes an always on feature in which the mobile device is continuously capturing video and analyzing the objects within the video stream. In such embodiments the object recognition application may be configured to alert the user that a particular object has been identified. The user may set any number of user preferences to tailor the object recognition and AR experience to their needs. For instance the user may opt to only be alerted if a certain particular object is identified. The user may also opt to have the video captured upon a specific manipulation of the system hand gesture voice commend etc. by the user . Additionally it will be appreciated that the always on feature in which video is continuously captured may consume the mobile device power source more quickly. Thus in some embodiments the always on feature may disengage if a determined event occurs such as low power source low levels of light for an extended period of time e.g. such as if the mobile device is in a user s pocket obstructing a clear view of the environment from the mobile device if the mobile device remains stationary thus receiving the same video stream for an extended period of time the user sets a certain time of day to disengage etc. Conversely if the always on feature is disengaged due to the occurrence of such an event the user may opt for the always on feature to re engage after the duration of the disengaging event e.g. power source is re charged light levels are increased etc. .

In some embodiments the user may identify objects that the object recognition application does not identify and add it to the data storage with desired information in order to be identified and or displayed in the future. For instance the user may select an unidentified object and enter a name title and or any other desired information for the unidentified object . In such embodiments the object recognition application may detect record certain markers about the object so that the pattern recognition algorithm s or other identification means may detect the object in the future. Furthermore in cases where the object information is within the data storage but the object recognition application fails to identify the object e.g. one or more identifying characteristics or markers of the object has changed since it was added to the data storage or the marker simply was not identified the user may select the object and associate it with an object already stored in the data storage . In such cases the object recognition application may be capable of updating the markers for the object in order to identify the object in future real time video streams.

In addition in some embodiments the user may opt to edit the information or add to the information provided by the virtual object . For instance the user may opt to include user specific information about a certain object such that the information may be displayed upon a future identification of the object . Conversely in some embodiments the user may opt to delete or hide an object from being identified and a virtual object associated therewith being displayed on the mobile device display .

Furthermore in some instances an object may include one or more markers identified by the object recognition application that leads the object recognition application to associate an object with more than one object in the data storage . In such instances the user may be presented with the multiple candidate identifications and may opt to choose the appropriate identification or input a different identification. The multiple candidates may be presented to the user by any means. For instance in one embodiment the candidates are presented to the user as a list wherein the strongest candidate is listed first based on reliability of the identification. Upon input by the user identifying the object the object recognition application may learn from the input and store additional markers in order to avoid multiple identification candidates for the same object in future identifications.

Additionally the object recognition application may utilize criteria for identification other than identification algorithms. For instance the object recognition application may utilize the user s location time of day season weather speed of location changes e.g. walking versus traveling busyness e.g. how many objects are in motion versus stationary in the video stream social networking updates as well any number of other conceivable factors in determining the identification of objects . Moreover the user may input preferences or other metrics for which the object recognition application may utilize to narrow results of identified objects .

In some embodiments the AR application may have the ability to gather and report user interactions with displayed virtual objects . The data elements gathered and reported may include but are not limited to number of offer impressions time spent viewing an offer product object or business number of offers investigated via a selection number of offers loaded to an electronic wallet and the like. Such user interactions may be reported to any type of entity desired. In one particular embodiment the user interactions may be reported to a financial institution and the information reported may include customer financial behavior purchase power transaction history and the like.

In various embodiments information associated with or related to one or more objects that is retrieved for presentation to a user via the mobile device may be permanently or semi permanently associated with the object. In other words the object may be tagged with the information. In some embodiments a location pointer is associated with an object after information is retrieved regarding the object. In this regard subsequent mobile devices capturing the object for recognition may retrieve the associated information tags and or pointers in order to more quickly retrieve information regarding the object. In some embodiments the mobile device provides the user an opportunity to post messages links to information or the like and associate such postings with the object. Subsequent users may then be presenting such postings when their mobile devices capture and recognize an object. In some embodiments the information gathered through the recognition and information retrieval process may be posted by the user in association with the object. Such tags and or postings may be stored in a predetermined memory and or database for ease of searching and retrieval.

As represented by block the goods and businesses identified in the real time video stream are correlated to information regarding the social impact of the goods and businesses. This information is used to assign the identified goods and businesses a social impact profile as represented in block . In some embodiments of the invention the information regarding the social impact of the goods and businesses may be dynamically collected by using search algorithms to pair the markers to information in existing data sources related to the social impact information about the goods or businesses. Such data sources may include but are not limited to the Internet legal records news databases and the like. In some embodiments a database will be specifically created to catalog the social impact information of goods and businesses. In some embodiments this social impact database may be stored on the Data Storage of the mobile device to be accessed by the processor as part of the object recognition application . In some embodiments the social impact database may be provided to the system through an API. In this way the data may be stored in a separate API and be implemented by request from the mobile device and or server accesses another application by way of an API. In some embodiments a financial institution may use its unique relationship with both individuals and businesses to collect social impact information of goods and businesses for use in connection with apparatuses and systems performing the process flow . It will be understood that although process flow illustrates the correlation of goods and businesses to information regarding the social impact of the goods and businesses as a separate step from assigning a social impact profile to the goods and businesses that these steps may be performed simultaneously. Moreover one or both of these steps may be performed prior to the other steps shown in the process flow . In some embodiments information regarding the social impact of goods and businesses will be collected and the goods and businesses will be assigned a social impact profile that is preloaded onto the mobile device .

Referring back to the process flow illustrated in block represents the event of comparing the social impact profile of the goods or businesses to the social impact profile of the user. As discussed above in some embodiments the social impact profile may take the form of a numerical indicator. Accordingly in some embodiments the numerical indicator assigned to the user will be compared to the numerical indicator assigned to the goods or business. In some embodiments a virtual image will only be shown on the display if the object has a social impact profile greater than the social impact profile of the user. For example if a user is assigned a social impact profile of forty two on a scale of one hundred for environmental concerns and an identified product has a social impact profile of fifty five a virtual image for the product will be shown on the display of the mobile device . If however the product has score of thirty five no virtual image will be shown on the display . It will be understood that if the social impact profile takes an alternate form such as a classification or grade the comparison will proceed similarly identifying goods and businesses with a social impact profile that is at a specific level relative to the user s social impact profile. The user will be able to adjust and specify the relationship between the social impact profiles that will still generate a virtual image . For instance a user may be able to specify that it will accept goods or businesses with social impact profile within a certain percentage of its own or if classifications are used that the user will accept goods from the classification immediately below the user s. In other embodiments a virtual image will be outlined for example in green if the object in the display has a social impact profile appropriate to the user s assignment.

The collection of data concerning the user s social values represented in block of the process flow can be embodied in a number of different apparatuses and systems. provides a flow diagram illustrating a general process flow of an apparatus or system for collecting data concerning the social values of greatest importance to the user . In some embodiments an apparatus such as the mobile device will be used to collect user defined data regarding the social values of importance to the user . Such user defined data may take a number of different forms including but not limited to responses to survey questions and questionnaires regarding social values self identification with specific social groups identification of search terms that a user wants or does not want to be associated with products or businesses etc. In some embodiments such user defined data may be collected directly by the mobile device as part of the object recognition application or through a website accessed through the web browser application . In some embodiments the user defined data is collected through other computer systems or even through direct interviews with the user and are subsequently transferred to the data storage .

As represented by block the apparatus or system may analyze the purchasing behavior of the user to identify the social values of importance to the user. Past purchasing behavior may be a good indicator of the social values of greatest importance to a user or at a minimum reflect the social impact values on which a user is prepared to act. Although information regarding purchasing behavior may be collected from different sources in some embodiments a financial institution will utilize its relationship with its customers to collect and analyze the user s purchasing behavior. If a user has an account with a financial institution the financial institution will have access to transaction information for purchases made by the user from that account. Such transaction information may include the date time location amount nature product details i.e. merchant category code and provider of products or services purchased. This transaction information can then be compared to information relating to the social impact of specific products and businesses. In some embodiments this information will be the same information as represented in block for process flow in and discussed above. Accordingly a database may be created by the financial institution or another entity cataloging the social impact of various goods and businesses or the information may be collected dynamically from existing sources. The financial institution can then compare the user s transaction data to the available social impact information. For example if a high percentage of a user s purchases either with regard to dollar amount or frequency are from a grocery store that is identified as having a social impact profile associated with selling organic goods the apparatus or system may categorize the user as valuing organic products. If a user has used an account to make donations to a non profit organization the apparatus may categorize the user as valuing charitable giving or may associate the user with the specific social values identified with the non profit organization that received the donation.

In some embodiments of the invention the use of purchasing behavior to collect information regarding the social values of greatest importance to the user will also allow the user to gain information regarding the user s own activities or habits. In some embodiments the object recognition application or some other application on the memory of the mobile device or other computing system can provide a summary of the analysis of the user s purchasing behavior. For instance the object recognition application may present the user s checking account statement or credit card statement and highlight purchases that reflect a specific social impact profile or are inconsistent with a specific social impact profile. The object recognition application or other program may also generate a social impact score. This score may or may not be the same as the social impact profile represented by block . The object recognition application or other program may identify those purchases that contributed to the specific score so that the user can adjust his or her behavior to move the score in a direction consistent with the user s self defined values. In some embodiments of the invention the user s social impact score will be sent to social networking accounts associated with the user to enable to the user to share his or her score with friends and associates. Some embodiments of the invention will include a game feature providing incentives for improving a social impact score.

Referring back to block represents the process flow of analyzing the user s personal profile to identify the social values of importance to the user. As used herein personal profile means any information personal to the user that can be used to identify the character and quality of the person. Such information includes but is not limited to membership in certain organizations profile information available through any social network of the user status updates blog postings comments and other information contributed by the user in an online environment contents of e mails etc. In some embodiments of the invention a computer device processor will be used to monitor or browse through all electronic information related to the user and collect personal profile information associated with the user s social values. In some embodiments a financial institution will use the information it has access to by nature of its relationship with its customers to collect a user s personal profile information. Some personal profile information is provided directly to the financial institution through the process of establishing accounts and doing business with the financial institution. The financial institution may also have access to certain transaction information that indicates personal profile information related to the user s social values such as the payment of membership dues to certain organizations or the contribution of funds to a non profit organization.

As with the analysis of purchasing behavior represented in block the analysis of personal profile information represented in block will allow the user in certain embodiments to gain information about the user s social values. In certain embodiments the object recognition application or other program on the mobile device or other computing system will present to the user the effect certain personal profile information has on the determination of the user s social values. For instance the object recognition application may highlight information from a user s blog post or social networking profile that indicates the user values local businesses.

Referring now to a series of exemplary display pages and of a mobile device consistent with an embodiment of the present invention are provided. It will be understood that in some embodiments each of the pages and are displayed on the display of the mobile device . It will also be understood that the mobile device is configured in some embodiments to navigate from page to page and or vice versa either by actuating one of the buttons or one of the other input devices . It will be further understood that the display pages and can be embodied as portions of the object recognition application the AR Application as Internet web pages and or the like. In addition it will be understood that in some embodiments the apparatus having the process flow and are configured to implement any one or more of the embodiments of the present invention described and or contemplated herein in connection with the display pages and .

Referring now to it will be understood that in some embodiments the display page is displayed in connection with collecting user defined data regarding the social values of importance to the user as represented by block of the apparatus having a process flow . Alternatively the display page is displayed after the customer navigates to the page from the other display page . As shown in this embodiment the display page includes a general survey question and instructions specific categories for inputting user defined responses to social impact queries and response indicators . In the embodiment shown in display page the user is asked to identify how important certain factors are to making a purchasing decision with one being very important and five being not important at all . The specific factors are presented at and the user indicates his or her response by actuating one response indicator for each category. Once the user has provided a response for each category the application or program will provide an additional question to solicit information regarding the social values of the customer or the customer will be able to navigate to one of other display pages such as display page .

Referring now to it will be understood that in some embodiments the display page is displayed in connection with collecting user defined data regarding the social values of importance to the user as represented by block of the apparatus having a process flow . Alternatively the display page is displayed after the user navigates to the page from the other display page . As shown in this embodiment the display page includes instructions a field for inputting search terms and a button for submitting the search terms for use in connection with identification of products or businesses having a predetermined social impact as discussed herein. In this embodiment the user may input any terms that the user either wants to be associated with specific products or businesses or does not want to be associated with specific products or businesses. The user has the option of selecting whether the AR Application returns virtual images for goods positively or negatively associated with the search terms not shown . For instance the user may enter the terms environmentally friendly or locally grown in the search field and select the input for positive association and the object recognition application will identify goods in the real time video stream that have been identified as being environmentally friendly or locally grown and the AR Application may superimpose a virtual image on the display over the corresponding image of such goods. The user may also enter blood diamond in the search field and select the input for negative association and the object recognition application will exclude any goods or businesses that have been associated with diamonds removed from certain conflict zones or mined in certain geographic locations. It will be understood that the search terms can be combined using conventional Boolean operators and the like.

Referring now to . which is an exemplary display page of a mobile device consistent with an embodiment of the present invention. It will be understood that in some embodiments the display page is displayed on the display of the mobile device . It will also be understood that the display pages can be embodied as portions of the object recognition application the AR Application as Internet web pages and or the like. In addition it will be understood that in some embodiments the apparatus having the process flow and are configured to implement any one or more of the embodiments of the present invention described and or contemplated herein in connection with the display pages .

The display page of in some embodiments is displayed in connection with an apparatus performing block of the process flow . Referring to after identifying an object within the real time video stream the mobile device is configured to superimpose a virtual image on the mobile device display . In some embodiments selecting the virtual image navigates the user to display page to enable the user to purchase the identified product or service. As shown in this embodiment the display page includes an image of the product or service a description of the product or service the price of the product or service and a button to initiate the purchase of the product or service . The display page may also include additional information regarding the product or service including such things as reviews specifications instructions and multimedia relating to the product or service. In certain embodiments of the invention selecting the button will navigate the user to an additional display page not shown where the user can enter information such as credit card numbers and billing addresses to complete the purchase. In other embodiments the AR Application will be linked to the financial institution of the user so by actuating the button the purchase is automatically completed and no additional information is required from the user.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other embodiment unless stated otherwise.

The systems methods computer program products etc. described herein may be utilized or combined with any other suitable AR related application. Non limiting examples of other suitable AR related applications include those described in the following U.S. Provisional Patent Applications the entirety of each of which is incorporated herein by reference 

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

