---

title: Source-to-processing file conversion in an electronic discovery enterprise system
abstract: Embodiments of the invention relate to systems, methods, and computer program products for improved electronic discovery. Embodiments herein disclosed provide for an enterprise-wide e-discovery system that provides for source-to-processing file conversion of electronic communications and, in some embodiments, decryption of encrypted electronic communication entries for the purpose of efficiently processing data and supplying the electronic data to third party data analysis providers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09547660&OS=09547660&RS=09547660
owner: BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
number: 09547660
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160224
---
The present application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. non provisional patent application Ser. No. 12 534 375 filed Aug. 3 2009 of the same title which in turn claims priority to U.S. provisional application No. 61 164 276 entitled Electronic Discovery System filed Mar. 27 2009 and assigned to the assignee hereof the content of both of which are also incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

In general embodiments of the invention relate to methods systems apparatus and computer program products for electronic discovery and more particularly file conversion of harvested electronic communication data.

Electronic discovery commonly referred to as e discovery refers to any process in which electronic data is sought located secured and searched with the intent of using it as evidence in a legal proceeding an audit a securities investigation a forensics investigation or the like. E discovery can be carried out offline on a particular computer or it can be accomplished in a network environment.

The nature of digital data makes it extremely well suited for investigation. In particular digital data can be electronically searched with ease whereas paper documents must be scrutinized manually. Furthermore digital data is difficult or impossible to completely destroy particularly if the data is stored in a network environment. This is because the data appears on multiple hard drives and because digital files even if deleted generally can be undeleted. In fact the only reliable means of destroying digital data is to physically destroy any and all hard drives where it is stored.

In the process of electronic discovery data of all types can serve as evidence. This can include text image calendar event data databases spreadsheets audio files multimedia files web sites and computer programs. Electronic mail i.e. e mail can be an especially valuable source of evidence in civil or criminal litigation because people are often less careful in these exchanges than in hard copy correspondence such as written memos or postal letters.

E discovery is an evolving field that goes far beyond mere technology. It gives rise to multiple issues many of which have yet to be resolved. For example identifying data required to satisfy a given discovery request locating the appropriate set of data that has been identified and retrieving the data once it has been identified and located all pose problems in and of themselves. This is especially evident if the data that is being identified located and retrieved comes from an evolving or disparate enterprise such as a corporation that has experienced mergers acquisitions downsizing and the like. Mergers and acquisitions mean that the technology infrastructure across the enterprise may vary at least in the interim. However e discovery must be able locate and retrieve data from these disparate technology infrastructure in a timely fashion sometimes within days of when the merger acquisition occurs.

In addition to identifying locating and retrieving digital data the most critical part of any electronic discovery is the preservation of data which involves maintaining an original source copy and storing it for preservation purposes or furthering processing. This too becomes a daunting task for the enterprise system that encompasses a myriad of different technology infrastructures and the like. Therefore a need exists to improve the identification location retrieval and preservation processes especially in instances in which the enterprise system includes disparate technology infrastructures and the like.

As previously noted e discovery as opposed as conventional discovery of printed materials provides for the ability to filter or search the data so as to reduce the volume of data to only that which is relevant to the request. Such searching is typically accomplished by determining a specific date range for the request providing key words relevant to the case and the like. Improvements in the area of searching are greatly in need to further add efficiency to the overall e discovery process.

Once data has been retrieved preserved and in some instances searched the electronic data may be reviewed by the requesting entry such as a law firm securities commission or the like. While large requests are generally suited for online review the manner in which the data is presented for review adds efficiency to the review process and ultimately drives the cost of the review process. Therefore improvements in the manner in which data is presented for review are also desirable as a means of increasing efficiency and reducing costs.

Lastly once the digital data has been reviewed data identified as relevant may need to be produced in a tangible format for further analysis or legal evidentiary purposes. The produced documents must be properly identified and include necessary redactions and confidentiality markings.

Up until now e discovery management has been conducted on a case by case basis meaning all tasking and workflow related to the e discovery is based at the case level. Such management does not allow for finer granularity in the management of a case or for links to exist between different cases for the purpose of leveraging the e discovery related to one case to another new or pre existing case. Therefore a need exists to improve the manner in which cases are managed and in particular how tasking and workflow are managed depending on case requirements and the like.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to systems apparatus methods and computer program products for electronic discovery and in particular improvements in electronic discovery that allow for electronic discovery to be efficiently and cost effectively employed across a diverse enterprise. In particular embodiments herein described related to systems apparatus methods and computer program products for automatically converting diverse electronic communication formats to a predetermined format that can subsequently be presented to a requesting party or more likely readily processed downstream by a third party entry responsible for providing the requesting party access to the electronic data and in particular the electronic communication data. Automatic conversion of the data eliminates the need for operator intervention during the conversion process and thereby further adds efficiency to the overall electronic discovery process.

A method for electronic communication file conversion in an enterprise wide electronic data discovery system defines a first embodiment of the invention. The method includes capturing electronic data including electronic communication files from a plurality of custodians based on a data request and once captured storing the data in long term storage. The method also includes copying the electronic data to a processing entry such as a conversion server or the like. The method further includes identifying file type for one or more of the electronic communication files and automatically converting automatically one or more of the electronic communication files to a predetermined file format based on identification of file type. Once the electronic communication files have been converted they are stored in long term storage for subsequent quality control processing and or communication to the data requesting party or a third party entity responsible for providing requesting party access to the electronic data.

According to specific embodiments of the method the predetermined format to which the electronic communication files are converted may be a format supported by a third party electronic data presentation entry and more specifically according to certain embodiments the converted file format may be Personal Storage Table .PST format.

According to further embodiments of the method identifying file type further includes identifying a mobile communication back up file type such as .IPD files or the like as one of the electronic communication files. In such embodiments the method may further include extracting individual electronic communication messages from the electronic communication files identified as mobile communication back up file type. Further in such embodiments converting the electronic communication files may further include converting automatically the electronic communication messages extracted from the mobile communication back up file to a predetermined file format.

In another embodiment of the method identifying file type further includes identifying Electronic Mail .EML file type and or Message .MSG file type as one of the electronic communication file types and converting further includes converting automatically electronic communication files identified as .EML file type or .MSG file type to a predetermined file format such as .PST or the like.

In yet another embodiment of the method identifying file type further includes identifying a compression scheme file type such as .ZIP .RAR .TAR or the like as one of the electronic communication file types. In such embodiments the method may further include extracting one or more electronic communication files from the compression scheme file and subsequently converting one or more of the extracted electronic communication files to a predetermined file format such as .PST or the like.

In still further embodiments the method may include identifying one or more encrypted entries in one or more electronic communication files such as Notes Storage Facility .NSF type file or the like and automatically decrypting the one or more encrypted entries. In further related embodiments the method may include converting one or more entries in the .NSF file to a third party data presentation supported entry format such as a conventional message format or the like.

An apparatus for electronic communication file conversion in an enterprise wide electronic data discovery system defines another embodiment of the invention. The apparatus includes a computing platform including at least one processor and a memory. The apparatus further includes an electronic communication file conversion module stored in the memory and executable by the at least one processor. The file conversion module is configured to receive from storage a copy of electronic data including electronic communication files captured from enterprise wide custodians. Further the file conversion module includes a file type identification application configured to identify the file type of the electronic communication files. Additionally the file conversion module includes one or more file type specific conversion applications configured to automatically convert electronic communication files to a predetermined file format based on identification of the file type.

According to specific embodiments of the apparatus the predetermined file format to which the electronic communication files are converted may be a format chosen based on support by a third party electronic data presentation entry the data requesting party or the like. In one such embodiment the predetermined file format is Personal Storage Table .PST format or the like.

In another embodiment of the apparatus the electronic communication file conversion module may include an electronic communication extraction application configured to extract electronic communication messages or other entries such as appointments or the like from electronic communication files prior to converting the electronic communication messages or entries to the predetermined file format.

In a further embodiment of the apparatus the file type identification application is configured to identify mobile communication back up file type such as .IPD back up file type or the like. In such embodiments the electronic communication file conversion module may include an electronic communication extraction application configured to extract electronic communication messages or other entries from the mobile communication back up file such as an .IPD back up file or the like. Likewise in still further related embodiments of the apparatus one of the file type specific conversion applications may include an .IPD conversion application configured to automatically convert the electronic communication messages or other entries extracted from the .IPD files to a predetermined file format.

In yet other embodiments of the apparatus the file type identification application may be configured to identify Electronic Mail .EML file type and or Message .MSG file type. In such embodiments the file type specific conversion applications may further include an .EML conversion application and or an .MSG conversion application configured to automatically convert electronic communication files identified as .EML and or .MSG to a predetermined file format.

In a still further embodiment of the apparatus the file type identification application is configured to identify compression scheme file type such as .ZIP .RAR .TAR or the like. In such embodiments the electronic communication file conversion module may further include an electronic communication file extraction application configured to extract one or more electronic communication files from electronic the compression scheme files.

In another embodiment the apparatus includes an electronic communication decryption module configured to identify one or more encrypted entries in an electronic communication file such as an .NSF file or the like and to automatically decrypt the one or more encrypted entries. In such aspects the apparatus may include one or more entry type specific conversion applications configured to automatically convert file entry format to a predetermined entry format.

Yet another embodiment of the apparatus includes a hash verification module configured to verify integrity of the copy of electronic data.

A computer program product defines yet another embodiment of the invention. The computer program product includes a computer readable medium. The medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to capture electronic data including electronic communication files from a plurality of custodians based on a data request. The medium also includes a second set of codes for causing a computer to store the captured electronic data and a third set of codes for causing a computer to copy the electronic data to a processing entity such as a conversion server or the like. The medium also includes a fourth set of codes for causing a computer to identify file type for the electronic communication files and a fifth set of codes for causing a computer to automatically convert one or more of the electronic communication files to a predetermined file format based on identification of file type. Additionally the medium includes a sixth set of codes for causing a computer to store the electronic data including the converted one or more electronic communication files.

In certain embodiments of the computer program product the fifth set of codes is further configured to cause the computer to automatically convert one or more of the electronic communication files to a predetermined file format supported by a third party electronic data presentation entry a data requesting party or the like such as .PST file format or the like.

In other embodiments of the computer program product the fourth set of codes is further configured to cause the computer to identify a mobile communication back up file type such as .IPD back up file type or the like. In such embodiments the medium may include a seventh set of codes for causing a computer to extract individual electronic communication messages or other entries from electronic communication files identified as mobile communication back up file type. In such embodiments the fifth set of codes may be further configured to cause the computer to automatically convert the electronic communication messages extracted from the mobile communication back up file to a predetermined file format such as .PST file format or the like.

In still further embodiments of the computer program product the fourth set of codes is further configured to cause the computer to identify an Electronic Mail .EML file type and or a Message .MSG file type for one or more of the electronic communication files and wherein the fifth set of codes is further configured to cause the computer to automatically convert electronic communication files identified as .EML file type and or .MSG file type to a predetermined file format such as .PST or the like.

In yet other embodiments of the computer program product the fourth set of codes may be further configured to cause the computer to identify a compression scheme file type. In such embodiments the medium may also include a seventh set of codes for causing a computer to extract one or more electronic communication files from electronic communication files identified as compression scheme file type. Further the fifth set of codes may be further configured to cause the computer to automatically convert one or more of the extracted electronic communication files to a predetermined file format.

In still other embodiments of the computer program product the medium includes a seventh set of codes for causing a computer to identify one or more encrypted entries in one or more electronic communication files such as .NSF files or the like and an eighth set of codes for causing a computer to automatically decrypt the one or more encrypted entries.

Thus present embodiments provide for automatically converting electronic communication files to a predetermined format that is consistent with a format supported by a third party designated as the provider of accessible electronic data and or the data requesting party and or the like. The automated nature of the process adds efficiency to the overall electronic discovery process and insures that the eventual data requesting party is provided with accessible data.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more embodiments. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and this description is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present invention now may be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure may satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

As may be appreciated by one of skill in the art the present invention may be embodied as a method system computer program product or a combination of the foregoing. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may generally be referred to herein as a system. Furthermore embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer readable medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples of the computer readable medium include but are not limited to the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a tangible storage medium such as a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM or other optical or magnetic storage device or transmission media such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet. Note that the computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may be written in an object oriented scripted or unscripted programming language such as Java Perl Smalltalk C or the like. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages.

Embodiments of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products. It may be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and or combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create mechanisms for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block s .

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block s . Alternatively computer program implemented steps or acts may be combined with operator or human implemented steps or acts in order to carry out an embodiment of the invention.

Thus apparatus systems methods and computer program products are herein disclosed that provide efficiency in electronic data discovery and more specifically for electronic communication file conversion in a source to processing environment for the purpose of providing a standard format to a third party designated for providing access to the electronic discovery data the data requesting part or the like.

For purposes of presently described embodiments of the invention the electronic discovery system includes a data store typically a long term data store that is configured to store data captured or otherwise harvested from what is referred to in the art as custodians Custodians are individuals a grouping of individuals or an entry identified at the onset of a case or matter whose electronic communication such as e mail or the like as well as other electronic forms of data such as word processing files and the like are subject to capture and review. Thus once electronic data including electronic communication data is captured or otherwise harvested from custodians in manners described in detail infra. the electronic data is stored in data store .

Once data has been captured and stored in data store the electronic communication data is copied to a source to processing entity such as a conversion service server or other device suitable for data processing. At the server level the electronic communication data exists in various formats such as compressed file format such as .ZIP file .RAR file TAR file and the like mobile communication back up file format such as .IPD file format Electronic Mail .EML file format Message .MSG file format Notes Storage Facility .NSF file format and the like. In order to properly prepare the electronic communication for process production review a third party provider of a data analysis tool such as for example Attenex Corporation of Seattle Wash. or the like benefits from receiving all of the electronic communications in a standard format. Thus source to processing entity implements one or more file conversion applications to transform or otherwise convert the electronic communication data to predetermined formatted electronic communication data . In certain embodiments of the invention the predetermined format may be Personal Storage Table .PST file format. In such embodiments certain electronic communication data such as active email files may already exist in .PST file format and therefore may not require conversion at the source to processing entity level prior to release to the third party data analysis provider. The file conversion application may be a single application configured to transform any and or all format types to the predetermined format or the file conversion application may include a plurality of file format specific conversion applications configured to convert one or more format types to the predetermined format.

Once the electronic communication data undergoes re formatting at the source to processing entity the data typically undergoes quality control processing and may be released to the third party for data analysis preparation and or returned to long term storage.

Referring to shown is a more detailed block diagram depiction of a source to processing entity such as a conversion service server incorporated in the electronic discovery system of the present invention. The conversion services server is configured to provide for automated electronic communication file conversion to a predetermined format in accordance with present aspects. In addition to providing greater detail highlights various alternate embodiments. The conversion services server may include one or more of any type of computerized device. The present apparatus and methods can accordingly be performed on any form of computing device.

The server includes computing platform that can receive and execute routines and applications. Computing platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and non volatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computing platform also includes processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API that interfaces with any resident programs such as electronic communication file conversion module electronic communication decryption module or the like stored in the memory of the conversion services server .

Processor includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of server and the operability of the server on a network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem used in conjunction with the electronic communication file conversion module electronic communication decryption module the electronic communication form change module the hash verification module or subcomponents or sub modules thereof.

Computer platform additionally includes communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the conversion services server as well as between the other devices in the electronic discovery system . Thus communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a network communication connection.

The memory of computing platform includes electronic communication file conversion module that is configured to convert electronic communication files from various formats such as .EML MSG. .IPD .NSF and the like to a predetermined standard format such as .PST or the like which is aligned with a third party electronic discovery data provider the data requesting party or the like. The electronic communication file conversion module includes a file type identifier application that is configured to determine the file type of electronic communication files. In certain embodiments the conversion services server receives a copy of all electronic data harvested while in other embodiments the conversion services server may receive a copy of all the electronic communication harvested i.e. a subset of all the electronic data . Identification of the file type of electronic communication files may be necessary to determine if file conversion is necessary and or which file conversion application to apply to the file if the file conversion applications are file type specific. As previously noted certain electronic communication files such as active email files or the like may currently exist in the predetermined file format such as .PST or the like and therefore may not require conversion to the predetermined file format.

The electronic communication file conversion module additionally includes one or more file conversion applications that is configured to automatically convert electronic communication files to a predetermined format based on received file type. In certain embodiments the file conversion application may be a file type specific application that is limited to conversion of one or more specific file types. In this instance the file conversion application may include a plurality of file type specific file conversion applications. In other embodiments of the invention a single all inclusive file conversion application may be implemented that is capable of converting file format to the predetermined format regardless of file type. It should also be noted that the predetermined format may be more than one format. For example in the instance that the electronic communication data is being subsequently communicated to more than one third party electronic discovery data providers and at least two of the third parties prefer the electronic discovery communication in different standard formats. In other example a third party electronic discovery data provider may prefer certain electronic communication formats to be converted to one predetermined format while other electronic communications formats are preferred to be converted to another predetermined format.

The electronic communication file conversion module may also include an electronic communication extraction application that is configured to extract electronic communication files electronic communication messages and or other entries such as appointments and the like from compression scheme file formats such as .ZIP .RAR .TAR file formats and the like. In those embodiments in which the extraction application extracts individual communication messages appointments or the like the file conversion application is configured to automatically convert the individual communication messages appointments or the like to the predetermined file format. In addition other file formats such as mobile communication back up file format may require message extraction. For example Blackberry devices available from Research in Motion RIM of Waterloo Ontario Canada are configured to back up files in an .IPD file format which may require message extraction prior to converting the files to a predetermined format.

Conversion services server may also include electronic communication decryption module that is configured to automatically decrypt electronic communication that is determined to be encrypted. For example Lotus Notes available from IBM Corporation of Armonk N.Y. has the capability to encrypt electronic communication in .NSF file format. More details concerning the electronic communication decryption module are discussed in relation to infra.

Additionally conversion services server may also include electronic conversion form change module that is configured to automatically change the form of an individual message or other entry such as an appointment or the like to a predetermined form that is acceptable to the third party electronic discovery data provider. Form change may be necessary in certain instances if the converted file format does not properly recognize the form of the message or other entry.

In addition conversion services server may also include meeting request conversion module that is configured to convert meeting request entries and meeting request response entries to meeting appointment entries. In addition the meeting request conversion module may be configured to convert task request entries to task entries. Meeting request conversion is typically performed after the electronic communication data has been converted to the predetermined format such as .PST format or the like. As such according to one embodiment meeting request conversion is performed on all .PST files prior to submitting the files to the third party data analysis tool provider. Additionally in those embodiments in which electronic conversion form change is performed meeting request conversion is executed after completion of the form change processing. Converting meeting request entries and the like to meeting appointment entries and task request entries to task entries is beneficial when the electronic data includes journaled data. In many instances journaled data may not maintain or otherwise recognize appointment type data.

The conversion services server may also include hash verification module that is configured to apply a hash algorithm to the electronic data and or electronic communication data to verify the integrity of the data. The hash verification is typically performed upon receiving the copy of the electronic data electronic communication data from the long term storage unit.

In addition the conversion services server may include processing indices module configured to output indices such as number of file types number of files undergoing format change type of format change number of email messages number of other type entries the number messages entries undergoing form change the type of form change the number of email messages undergoing form change the number of appointments undergoing form change and the like.

Turning the reader s attention to a block diagram of an electronic communication file conversion module is depicted in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As previously noted the electronic file conversion module includes a file type identifier application that is configured to determine the file type of electronic communication files. Identification of the file type of electronic communication files may be necessary to determine if file conversion is necessary and or which file conversion application to apply to the file if the file conversion applications are file type specific.

The electronic communication file conversion module may also include one or more electronic communication extraction applications that are configured to extract electronic communication files electronic communication messages and or other entries such as appointments and the like from communication files. The applications may include one or more compressed file extraction applications such as an application for extracting messages or other entries from .ZIP files .RAR files .TAR files or other compressed file formats. In addition the extraction application may include an .IPD file extraction application configured to extract individual communication messages or other entries from an .IPD back up file. Additionally the electronic communication extraction application may include other file type extraction applications configured to extract communication messages and other entries from other file type formats requiring extraction prior to conversion.

The electronic communication file conversion module may additionally includes a plurality of file type specific file conversion applications. In the illustrated example of the file type specific file conversion applications include an .IPD file to .PST file conversion application a .MSG file to .PST file conversion application an .EML file to .PST file conversion application an .NSF file to .PST file conversion application and any other file type to .PST file conversion application .

Referring to a block diagram of an electronic communication decryption module in an electronic discovery system is depicted in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The decryption module includes a decryption database generator operable to generate a database or repository of passwords decryption keys or the like for subsequent automated decryption of encrypted electronic communication files. In the illustrated embodiment of the decryption module is configured to decrypt encrypted Lotus Notes Notes Storage File .NSF files although in other embodiments decryption of other encrypted file types is also possible. Thus the decryption database generator is configured to generate a user identification file database such as an ID file database and identify and associate an ID file owner and a password with each file in the ID file database. As such decryption database generator includes a user identification file generation tool such as an ID file generation tool or the like that is configured to automatically generate a user identification file database such as an ID database or the like. In one embodiment the user identification file generation tool scans desktop hard drives laptops and the like enterprise wide or a portion of the enterprise for user identification files such as ID files or the like to build a user identification file database such as an ID file database or the like or in other embodiments the user identification file generation tool may retrieve user identification files from a designated server or file share if such a user identification file database exists.

Decryption database generator also includes a user identification file analyzation tool such as an ID file analyzation tool that is configured to automatically analyze the user identification files such as ID files to deduce an owner for each user identification file and password for each user identification file . In one embodiment of the invention the owner of the user identification file is identified by parsing the user identification file to identify data relevant to ownership. In certain embodiments the owner of the file may be deduced based on the name of the file while in other embodiments the owner of the file may be deduced by comparing the relevant parsed data to various enterprise databases and backtracking to human resources type data to identify the owner. In certain embodiments the user identification file password may be deduced based on the name of the file while in other embodiments the user identification file password may be brute force deciphered.

The user identification file password verification application such as an ID file password verification application or the like is configured to verify the identified password by passing testing the identified password on a given user identification file. If the verification application is successful the password and the owner are automatically recorded as entries in the user identification file within the user identification file database .

The decryption module also includes a decryption application that is configured to automatically decrypt encrypted electronic communication messages and or other entries. It should be noted that the decryption application will typically be implemented prior to converting the file or messages to a predetermined file format. In the illustrated embodiment of the decryption application is used in conjunction with the user identification file database and as such is configured to decrypt encrypted file such as Lotus Notes .NSF files or the like. In other embodiments the decryption application may be configured to decrypt other encrypted file types. The decryption application includes a communication session generator that is configured to automatically generate a communication session such as a Lotus Notes session based on a selected ID file. The decryption application also includes an encrypted entry identifier that is configured to open a file including entries such as an .NSF which is associated with the ID file and identify the encrypted messages or other encrypted entries in the file. Once the encrypted files have been identified the decryption routine is implemented to decrypt the entries using the user identification file and moreover the password identified for the user identification file in the decryption database generator .

If the files are identified as .EML or .MSG files at Event the files are converted to a predetermined file format such as .PST file format or the like.

If the files are identified as a compression scheme file such as .ZIP files .RAR file .TAR file or the like at Event electronic communication files are extracted from the compressed files. At Event a determination is made to determine if all of the communication files have been extracted from the compressed file. If it is determined that not all of the communication files have been extracted from the compressed file the process returns to Event for further communication file extraction processing. If it is determined that all of the communication files have been extracted from the compressed file at Event a determination is made whether each communication file extracted from the compression file requires a conversion. Certain files extracted from the compression file may already be in the predetermined format such .PST format or the like and thus do not require conversion processing.

If it is determined that one or more of the extracted files require conversion then the process returns to Event which identifies the type of file format for each of the files requiring conversion extracted from the compressed file and processes the files accordingly. Thus if the files extracted from the compressed file are .EML or .MSG files they are converted to the predetermined file format and if the files extracted from the compressed file are .IPD files messages and or other entries are extracted from the .IPD file and the messages and or other entries are converted to the predetermined format. At Event the converted .PST file is forwarded for quality control processing prior to submission to third party data analysis tool preparation. If it is determined that one or more of the extracted files do not require conversion at Event the files not requiring conversion undergoes quality control processing prior to submission to third party data analysis tool preparation or the like.

Additionally once it is determined that all of the communication files have been extracted from the compressed file and conversion decisions have been made for all the extracted file at Event a determination is made as to whether the compressed file is empty. If the compressed file is empty meaning no other files other than communication files were present in the compressed file at Event the empty compression file is deleted. If the compression is determined to not be empty at Event it is forwarded for quality control processing prior to submission to third party data analysis tool preparation.

Turning the reader s attention to a flow diagram is depicted of a method for electronic communication file conversion in an electronic discovery system in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. At Event electronic data that includes electronic communication data such e mail appointment calendar data and the like is captured or otherwise harvested from custodians. For more detailed example of a process for capturing and harvesting electronic data from custodians see the description related to . At Event the captured electronic data is stored in long term storage or the like.

At Event the electronic data is copied to a processing drive such as a conversion services server or the like for analysis conversion and or in some embodiments decryption. At Event the file type of the electronic communication files is identified. File types may include but are not limited to .PST files .EML files .MSG files .IPD files .NSF files compression schemes that may contain electronic communication files such as .ZIP files .RAR files .TAR files and the like.

At optional Event individual electronic communication messages i.e. emails or the like or other entries are extracted from electronic conversion files that warrant such prior to conversion. For example mobile communication back up files such as .IPD back up files may require electronic communication message extraction prior to converting the contents of the file to a predetermined file format.

At Event the electronic communication files and or the electronic communication messages entries are automatically converted to a predetermined file format such as .PST or the like based on the identified file type. The identified file type may indicate whether the file type requires conversion. For example if the identified file type is equivalent to the predetermined file type conversion is not warranted. Such may be the case if the predetermined file format is .PST and active emails are harvested in .PST files. Additionally in those embodiments in which file type specific conversion applications are implemented the identification of the file type serves to indicate which conversion application should be applied to convert the file or files to the predetermined file type.

At Event the electronic data including the converted electronic communication files is stored in long term storage prior to undergoing quality control processing and subsequent communication to a third party electronic data analysis tool provider.

Referring to a flow diagram is presented of a method for creating a decryption repository in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The described embodiment is generally implemented in conjunction with decrypted .NSF files although in other embodiments of the invention a decryption repository may be constructed in similar fashion. At Event a user identification file repository database such as an ID file repository database is generated. The ID file repository may be generated by scanning desktop laptop hard drives that exist in the enterprise system or if ID files are stored in a known location the ID files may be retrieved from servers and or file shares. At Event an owner identity is identified for each of the user identification files. The owner of the user identification file may either be deduced from the name of file or through file analysis. In those instances in which file analysis is used to identify the owner the file may be parsed for relevant information and using various databases in conjunction with the relevant information backtrack to human resources databases or the like to identify the owner of the user identification file.

At Event a password is identified or otherwise deciphered for each of the user identification files. In certain embodiments the password may be identified intuitively or using a brute force means of deciphering the password. In one embodiment the password may be intuitively deduced based on the name given to the user identification file i.e. the ID file name contains the password or the password can be readily derived from the ID file name . At Event the validity of the password is verified by testing the derived password on a given user identification file to determine if the password is successful in rendering the encryption decryption keys in the associated user identification file. Once the validity of a password has been determined at Event the password and the file owner are recorded in the associated user identification file of the user identification file repository database such that subsequent decryption using the user identification file can be performed automatically based on the information provided in the user identification file.

At optional Event certain entries in an .NSF file or the like that require a change of form undergo form change. By changing the form type the files and or entries are more easily reviewable and can be processed internally prior to submission to the third party electronic discovery data provider. At optional Event entry related indices are provided. The indices may be related to all communications and or entries or may be limited to only those entries that have undergone form change. The indices may include but are not limited to the number of messages entries in the file the number of messages entries that have undergone form change the type of form changes applied the number of electronic mail communications the number of electronic mail communications that have undergone form change the number of appointment calendar entries in the file the number of appointment calendar entries that have undergone form change and the like.

As a means of providing an overview of a composite enterprise wide electronic discovery system which may be implemented in conjunction with the source to processing processes described above are herein provide and described in detail. It should be noted that the system shown and described in relation to are by way of example only and as such presently described embodiments of the invention may be embodied within other electronic discovery systems or only implement select portions of the electronic discovery system herein described.

As shown in the block diagram of the electronic discovery management server provides user interface management for via user interface . In some embodiments the electronic discovery management server is a web server that can be accessed via a web browser. In one particular embodiment the electronic discovery management server is an intranet website server that may be accessed utilizing a web browser on a machine within the enterprise. Through the electronic discovery management server the user interface may be presented to a user for the purposes of managing the electronic discovery process and all processes described herein that are inherent thereto. For illustrative purposes it may be assumed herein that the primary user interacting with the user interface is an employee or contractor of the company who serves an electronic discovery management role and hereafter is referred to as the e discovery manager. As discussed in greater detail below the e discovery manager may utilize the user interface to manage cases custodians collections and collected data. It should be appreciated however that any individual could use the user interface to perform the manual functions herein attributed to the e discovery manager and indeed that an automated process could perform those functions as well.

Referring again to the electronic discovery management server is in communication with the database server and the collections server via the communication network . The database server as shown in the block diagram of is configured to provide database services for the electronic discovery management server including housing the Unified Directory custodian database which includes data relating to individual custodians the case database which includes data relating to particular cases and ongoing collections database which includes data relating to collections being undertaken by the collections server . Each of the foregoing databases within the database server is discussed in detail below. It should be understood that multiple database servers could be employed instead of a single database server and reference to a single database server is for illustrative and convenience purposes only. For example the Unified Directory could be stored in one database server and the ongoing collections data could be stored in another database server.

Regardless of the number of database servers employed it is an object of embodiments of the present invention that data relating to custodians and cases be stored in the database server independently. While custodian data in the Unified Directory and case data in the case database may be linked or correlated within the database server for example when custodians are assigned to particular cases custodians may be managed separately from cases. Therefore when a case is initialized and a custodian is assigned to the case information for that custodian such as data storage locations for that custodian is accessed by the electronic discovery management server in the Unified Directory in the database server and linked to the particular case rather than manually input by the e discovery manager into the case.

Furthermore in addition to separating but allowing linkage of custodian management and case management processes and as discussed further below data management processes relating to the collection of data from custodian storage locations during electronic discovery are also separated from case management and custodian management processes. In this regard the data collected from a particular custodian is stored separately from both the custodian information and any relevant case information as discussed below it is stored in long term network storage network but is linked to a custodian which is in turn linked to one or more cases. This is advantageous because in the event a particular custodian is assigned to multiple cases data collected from the custodian may be shared with the other case s to which the custodian is assigned. Therefore the various processes and components of the electronic discovery system may be categorized within one of case management custodian management or data management. And even though cases custodians and collected data may all be managed separately there are necessarily links between the various datastores to allow management of the overall electronic discovery process.

With regard to custodian management according to some embodiments of the present invention the Unified Directory custodian database houses information relating to all potential custodians within the enterprise and the locations where those custodians store data. The information stored in the Unified Directory may include for a particular custodian for example the custodian s name position human resources identifier a unique number for each employee of the enterprise employment location domain email addresses network user identification personal computer s name paths of network storage devices used by the custodian including Shared Drives and HomeSpaces work history related persons such as managers team members or subordinates and any other information that may be relevant to the discovery process. Since the human resources identifier is always unique for each custodian in some embodiments the Unified Directory may be organized around the human resources identifier. All of the information relating to how the Unified Directory is generated is a multi step process that utilizes multiple tools and methods of identifying relevant information.

For example the electronic discovery management server or the database server may interface with the computer databases of the human resources computer systems of the enterprise to copy the information from the human resources databases into the Unified Directory . In some embodiments the electronic discovery management server may also reach out to a network directory such as Windows Active Directory to identify network resources related to particular custodians and integrate this information into the custodian entries including the copied human resources information. Information for the Unified Directory may also be obtained from the managers of the information technology network i.e. those individuals responsible for setting up email accounts for custodians and managing the various file servers of the enterprise. Furthermore in addition to retrieving information in the manners described above in some embodiments information in the Unified Directory is generated through tools initialized and or deployed by the electronic discovery management server . In particular in some embodiments as shown in a profile scanning tool and a mapping tool are provided.

The profile scanning tool may be deployed by the electronic discovery management server and is configured to crawl the communication network scan each of the enterprise personal computers and transmit to the database server identifying information about each computer such as computer name and IP address and a list of all profiles including demographics information or network user identification associated with each computer. According to different embodiments the profile scanning tool may be run on the electronic discovery management server the collection server or another server in the communication network . In some embodiments the profile scanning tool is further configured to identify and transmit to the database server the most recent date and time at which a particular profile was logged on to the machine. When information relating to a particular computer is received by the database server the database server uses the profile information which may include several user identifications to link the particular computer to the custodians in the Unified Directory associated with those user identifications. The database server may also record in each custodian s entry in the Unified Directory the last time the computer was accessed by the custodian according to the profile information transmitted by the profile scanning tool . Thus the profile scanning tool ultimately generates a list of personal computers used by each custodian and this list may be presented to the e discovery manager when a collection of a custodian s local machine s is initialized as discussed in detail below.

In accordance with some embodiments of the invention the mapping tool is configured to crawl the communication network and examine the enterprise file servers residing on the communication network to locate and identify the path of any personal network storage area on each server. As used herein a personal network storage area is a network storage area associated with a single user who reads data from or writes data to it. Personal network storage areas may be in the form of network storage devices or folders or other resources within a network storage device and may be referred to hereafter for clarity purposes as HomeSpaces. According to different embodiments the mapping tool may be run on the electronic discovery management server the collection server or another server in the communication network . In some embodiments the mapping tool is a Windows service that is scheduled to execute through use of Windows Scheduled Task. As the mapping tool crawls the communication network it is configured to examine each file server and transmit to the database server the path of any network storage area within the plurality of servers that it positively identifies as a HomeSpace. In some embodiments the mapping tool is configured to explore the enterprise file servers by obtaining and reviewing the directories on each server and evaluating the paths of each network storage area therein including folders and other storage devices and resources.

With regard to identifying a particular network storage area as a HomeSpace according to some embodiments the mapping tool is configured to utilize conventional naming techniques for paths in the communication network to identify those paths of network storage areas within the enterprise file servers that include an indicator based on the conventional naming techniques that the particular storage areas associated with those paths are accessed and used by only one user and are therefore HomeSpaces. In accordance with some embodiments of the invention each user of the communication network is assigned to at least one user identification and those user identifications are the indicators that the mapping tool attempts to locate within paths when identifying HomeSpaces. In such embodiments it is the convention that the paths of HomeSpaces on the communication network include the user s user identification. On the other hand paths of shared network storage areas do not include user identifications. Therefore the mapping tool may explore the directories of each server within the plurality of servers evaluate each path in turn and make a determination as to whether or not the path includes a user identification.

If it is determined that the path includes the designated indicator for example a user identification the mapping tool is configured to positively identify the particular network storage area identified by that path as a HomeSpace and transmit to the database server the particular user identification and the path of the HomeSpace. When that information is received by the database server the database server uses the user identification to link the particular HomeSpace to the custodian in the Unified Directory associated with that user identification. In some embodiments the mapping tool is also configured to recognize and transmit and the database server is configured to house an indication of the last time the HomeSpace was accessed by the particular user for example the last time any data was read from and or written to the HomeSpace. Additionally in some embodiments the mapping tool is configured to recognize when multiple paths map to the same network storage area. The collection server compares paths for the same user to determine if duplicative entries exist. This advantageously enables avoidance of multiple collections of the same data. Thus the profile scanning tool ultimately generates a list of HomeSpaces used by each custodian and this list may be presented to the e discovery manager when a collection of a custodian s HomeSpaces is initialized as discussed in detail below.

In addition to storing a list of personal computers and HomeSpaces used by a particular custodian which lists were generated by the profile scanning tool and the mapping tool respectively in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention the database server is also configured to store a list of any shared network storage areas used by the custodian. As used herein a shared network storage area is a network storage area associated with multiple users who read data from and or write data to it. Shared network storage areas may also be in the form of network storage devices or folders or other resources within network storage devices and may be referred to hereafter for clarity purposes as Shared Drives. The user interface is configured to receive a path of a Shared Drive input by the e discovery manager and store the path in the Unified Directory in relation to one or more custodians human resources identifier s . More particularly in some embodiments once a particular user of the communication network is chosen for the collection process the e discovery manager may undertake to identify the particular shared network resources that that individual is using and eventually the paths associated with those shared network resources. This may be accomplished through conversations with the particular individual by utilizing data returned from the local collection tool executed on collection server shown in the block diagram of deployed to the particular user s machine as discussed in detail below and or by utilizing a file browsing tool executed on electronic discovery manager server as shown in .

According to some embodiments of the present invention the file browsing tool is configured to be utilized by the e discovery manager through the user interface . The file browsing tool gives the e discovery manager elevated authority within the communication network to access in a limited manner the enterprise file servers within the communication network . While the file browsing tool may not allow access to the actual files stored on certain file servers it allows the e discovery manager to browse through the directories of the file servers locate files that have been accessed by the custodian and determine the size of the files. In accordance with some embodiments the e discovery manager may initially have a general idea of a particular file server within the enterprise file servers that the custodian has used in the past. For example the custodian may communicate to the e discovery manager a particular folder name and or drive name on which he she has stored files. Additionally in some embodiments the e discovery manager may have already undertaken a local collection process on the custodian s machine wherein the local collection tool returned a list of the network resources that the user of that machine has used. In that event the e discovery manager may be aware of the particular drive referenced by the user. The e discovery manager may then employ the file browsing tool to browse out to the particular drive mentioned scan the folders for any folder having a name resembling that name given by the user identify any particular files created by and or accessed by the user determine the size of such files and retrieve the path of any folder or Shared Drive including data belonging to the user.

The retrieved paths of the Shared Drives may then be added either manually or automatically to the Unified Directory in the database server . Thus the Unified Directory may store in connection with one custodian and in particular in relation to the custodian s human resources identifier a list of the personal computers HomeSpaces and Shared Drives associated with that custodian. Each of these locations is a potential source of data stored by the custodian and once an investigation or collection of a custodian is initiated the location information stored in the Unified Directory may be accessed to determine the particular storage locations that need to be addressed during the investigation collection. This is advantageous as it allows a completely automated investigation collection process rather than relying on the e discovery manager to manually input the targeted machines and file servers at the time of collection.

It should be noted that the Unified Directory may be regularly or continuously updated as new information is gathered using the tools described herein. More particularly the electronic discovery management server may be configured to automatically retrieve data from the human resources databases and Active Directory and any other relevant sources such as information technology directories or lists as well as deploy the profile scanning tool and the mapping tool at regularly scheduled intervals. Alternatively rather than periodically retrieving data from the various data sources such as the human resources databases the system may be configured such that the database server is continuously interfacing with the data sources such that the Unified Directory is updated in real time as the data within the data sources change. In either instance each of the feeds of information into the Unified Directory is regularly updated to ensure that the data in the Unified Directory is current.

In some embodiments the database server is configured such that all historical data relating to a custodian is stored in relation to that custodian s human resources identifier in the Unified Directory . Thus when the feeds of information into the Unified Directory are updated in the event data relating to the custodian has changed the database server is configured to store in the Unified Directory the new data and any relevant metadata including for example the time and date of the change as well as maintain a record of the old data so that it is still a part of the custodian s profile in the Unified Directory . For example in the event the profile scanning tool identifies a new personal computer associated with a custodian and one of the personal computers associated with the custodian previously is no longer identified the database server is configured to store in the Unified Directory the information for each computer as well as indications as to when the new computer was first identified and when the old computer was no longer identified. In this way the custodian profile within the Unified Database may include a history of the personal computers used by the custodian. Such information may be relevant at the time of investigation or collection of the custodian.

One feed of information into the Unified Directory which is particularly relevant to electronic discovery is employment status. According to some embodiments when the feed of information from the human resources databases to the Unified Directory includes a change as to employment status of a particular custodian the electronic discovery management server is configured to recognize the change and possibly perform particular functions in response. More specifically in the event it is recorded in the Unified Directory that the employment status of a particular custodian changes from active to terminated the electronic discovery management server is configured to determine whether the custodian is assigned to any case or matter and if so to transmit to the designated manager or contact for the case or matter an electronic communication notifying the manager of the terminated status and inquiring as to whether the manager would like the terminated custodian s data collected. In the event the manager responds in the affirmative the electronic discovery management server is configured to automatically initiate the various collection processes of the present invention. Therefore the custodian s data may be advantageously collected prior to any destruction or unavailability that could be caused by the termination. Alternatively in other embodiments the electronic discovery management server may not communicate with the manager and may automatically initiate collection upon recognizing a change in employment status.

With regard to case management processes according to some embodiments a case may be initialized by the e discovery manager utilizing the user interface . In this regard the e discovery manager may enter into the user interface certain information about a particular matter or case such as a case name and or number a short description of the matter case a legal identifier the particular requester i.e. who asked for the case to be opened managers or contacts for the matter i.e. individuals involved in the substance of the matter rather than the process like the e discovery manager custodians etc. The electronic discovery management server is configured to store this information in the case database in the database server . The case database is configured to house this information such that all information relating to a particular matter or case is related within the case database and a user can use the user interface to view a profile of the matter or case including all the information.

Once the matter and or case has been initialized the e discovery manager may add custodians to the matter or case. In some embodiments the electronic discovery management server is configured to add numerous custodians to a single matter or case at one time. In this regard the e discovery manager may use the user interface to enter in identifying information about the custodians. The identifying information for each custodian does not have to be of the same type. For example a name may be entered for one custodian an email address for another a network user identification for another and a human resources identifier for another. The user interface is configured to receive the identifying information in different input areas depending upon the type of identifying information being received. The electronic discovery management server is configured to use the input information to search the Unified Directory in the database server to determine which custodians are associated with the input information. In the case of a human resources identifier being entered only one custodian in the Unified Directory may be a match. On the other hand in the case of a name being entered multiple custodians may be a match.

The electronic discovery management server after searching the Unified Directory with the input identifying information is configured to present through the user interface a list of all custodians matching the input identifying information. In the event only one match was returned for a particular set of input identifying information the electronic discovery management server is configured to automatically select the custodian to be added to the case or matter. On the other hand in the event more than one match was located for a particular set of input identifying information then the multiple matches may be presented together to the e discovery manager through the user interface and marked so that the e discovery manager must review the multiple custodian profiles associated with the matches to determine the correct custodian that should be added to the case or matter. In doing so the e discovery manager may consider the other information in the profiles such as corporate title work location associated custodians etc. Such information can inform the e discovery manager as to whether the located custodian is the one intended. The e discovery manager may then select the correct custodian for addition to the case or matter and confirm that all custodians selected may be added to the case or matter. According to some embodiments adding a custodian to a case or matter involves linking correlating the custodian profile in the Unified Directory to the case or matter in the Case database .

According to some embodiments upon adding custodians to a matter the electronic discovery management server is configured to initiate the transmission of preservation notices and surveys to the custodians. In this regard preservation notices and surveys relevant to the particular case or matter are stored in or linked to the case profile in the case database . Transmission of the preservation notices and surveys to custodians added to the case may be automated for example there may be preset instructions within the case profile that cause the electronic discovery management server to transmit a particular preservation notice and survey at a particular date or time or upon a particular triggering event such as a custodian being added to the case or the e discovery manager may manually cause the preservation notices and surveys to be transmitted. In some embodiments the electronic discovery management server is configured to transmit the preservation notices and surveys via a standard email function. The surveys may be tied to the preservation notices such that they are transmitted to custodians together and one survey may be tied to more than one preservation notice. When a custodian responds to a survey the survey response is received by the electronic discovery management server and stored in relation to the relevant custodian in the case profile in the case database . Furthermore the electronic discovery management server may be configured to store all or a portion of the data received in the survey response in the Unified Directory in the custodian s profile.

According to some embodiments each transmission of a preservation notice and survey to a custodian and each corresponding response is tracked in the relevant case profile in the case database . The electronic discovery management server may also be configured to transmit reminder notices if responses to the surveys are not received within a predefined period of time. The electronic discovery management server may also be configured to schedule reminder notices to be sent to custodians to periodically refresh the custodians memory of their duty to preserve files documents pertaining to the matter. In some embodiments once a preservation notice has been sent to a custodian the electronic discovery management server may undertake to prevent any reimaging or refreshing of the custodian s personal computer s by transmitting an alert of the preservation notice to the enterprise s information technology management group. In addition the survey responses received from custodians serve to inform the collection process. For example one survey may inquire as to what network storage devices the custodian uses when storing data. The answer that the custodian gives to the survey may inform the addition of Shared Drives to the custodian profile in the Unified Database that may be used later in collection.

According to some embodiments of the present invention the e discovery manager may utilize the user interface to add attachments notes tasks and search terms to a case or matter. In some embodiments the contacts managers for a case may also access the case profile in the case database using a web browser and may add attachments notes tasks and search terms to be stored therein. Thus the e discovery manager may not be the only entry with access to the case and case management tools of the electronic discovery management server . The subject matter of the attachments notes and tasks could be anything relevant to the case or matter. In some embodiments the tasks are tasks that particular custodians must complete and the electronic discovery management server is configured to transmit a notice to the custodians that that the task needs to be completed perhaps using standard email functions. With regard to attachments the e discovery manager or the contact manager of the case may upload relevant files to be attached to the case profile.

With regard to the search terms the e discovery manager or the case contacts or managers may add certain terms to the case profile to be applied when searching the collected data to locate data responsive or relevant to the underlying issues in the case. Storing the search terms within the case profile is advantageous as it creates a record of the searching that is to be undertaken with respect to the data and aids in organization of the data as discussed further below.

According to some embodiments of the present invention when a decision is made that it is time to collect from certain custodians in a matter the e discovery manager may use the user interface to release the custodians from the matter to the underlying case. This release triggers the commencement of collection of the custodians data. In some embodiments the electronic discovery management server is configured to allow all custodians assigned to the matter to be released to the case at the same time. In addition in instances where the e discovery manager has previously created groups of custodians within the case the electronic discovery management server is configured to allow a group of custodians to be released from a matter to a case at the same time.

Once a custodian has been identified for collection whether manually by the e discovery manager or by being released from a matter to a case the electronic discovery system is configured to automatically collect the custodian s data using the location information stored in the Unified Directory . Therefore the electronic discovery management server accesses the custodian profile of the custodian to be collected in the Unified Directory and determines from the information stored therein the different locations of data storage for the particular custodian that must be collected. There are many different locations that the system can address including personal computers email accounts and network storage areas including HomeSpaces and Shared Drives.

If a custodian profile for a custodian released for collection includes at least one personal computer s associated with the custodian then the electronic discovery management server may undertake to collect the files on these machines. Therefore the electronic discovery management server may retrieve the relevant machine identifying information such as domain name IP address etc. and may initialize deployment of a local collection tool running on collections server as shown in .

The local collection tool is configured to be deployed from the collections server or another server within the network to any of the enterprise personal computers . Therefore for a particular custodian the local collection tool is configured to utilize the machine identifying information supplied by the electronic discovery management server to be deployed to the identified custodian computer. According to one embodiment the local collection tool is configured to be automatically installed on the target custodian s personal computer. The local collection tool is further configured to generate a snapshot of the data residing on the local storage of the personal computer for example by using a commercially available tool such as the Volume Shadow Copy Service store the snapshot in a storage area on the personal computer and transmit copies of the files included in the snapshot to the collections server . By transmitting the data from the snapshot of the data stored on the hard drive of the personal computer the local collection tool advantageously allows the custodian to continue to use her machine without substantial interference from the local collection tool and even interact with the data stored on the hard drive as the snapshot of the data is being transmitted to the collections server .

In addition to the functions described above the local collection tool may also be configured to transmit to the database server a catalog of the files included in the snapshot to be stored in the ongoing collections database. This catalog may be referenced by the collections server in order to determine whether collection is complete and to resume interrupted collections at the point of interruption. Additionally in accordance with some embodiments the local collection tool is configured to compile and transmit to the electronic discovery management server a list of network resources the user is using including for example network applications and file servers that the user has used or accessed. This list of resources may be stored in the database server in the custodian s profile in the Unified Directory . With regard to transmission of the files themselves according to one embodiment of the invention the local collection tool is configured to compress hash and upload the files included in the snapshot to the collections server .

In some embodiments the electronic discovery management server may utilize a computer watching tool to determine when to attempt a collection from a custodian s machine. The computer watching tool is configured to monitor the network and determine which of the enterprise personal computers are online. Therefore in the event there is a custodian whose local machine needs to be collected the computer watching tool is configured to determine when that machine joins the network i.e. when it appears to the computer watching tool and inform the electronic discovery management server that it should initialize the local collection tool immediately.

If a custodian profile for a custodian released for collection includes any paths for HomeSpaces or Shared Drives then the electronic discovery management server may undertake to collect the files from these file servers by initializing the file server collection tool running on collection server as shown in . The file server collection tool is configured to access the file server located at the given path whether the file server is a HomeSpace or a Shared Drive copy the data residing on the file server and compress hash and transmit the copied data to the collections server . The file server collection tool may be programmed with preset instructions that allow it to only copy files meeting certain criteria for example files that have certain file extensions. Alternatively the programmed instructions may prevent the file server collection tool from copying files having certain file extensions or other attributes. Either of the foregoing is advantageous if the e discovery manager is not interested in copying executable files or source code for example. In some embodiments the file server collection tool is also configured to generate a size estimate of the files residing on the targeted file server. In one embodiment the file server collection tool may automatically begin the collection process copying and transmitting data if the size estimate falls below a predetermined threshold. In addition in some embodiments the file server collection tool is configured to determine whether a particular folder that it is collecting from a file server includes more than a token amount of nearline files and in the event that the folder does include such nearline files choose to not collect such files so as to avoid overloading the server. Therefore according to different embodiments the file server collection tool copies all or a portion of the files residing on a file server located at the path given in the released custodian s profile and transmits them to the collections server .

If a custodian profile for a custodian released for collection includes an email address for an email account on the enterprise email server then the electronic discovery management server may undertake to collect the files from the enterprise email server by initializing the active email collection tool running on collections server as shown in . In some embodiments the active email collection tool is configured to access the particular Microsoft Exchange server within the enterprise email server on which the custodian s account resides which is known based on the information included in the Unified Directory copy all email located there including emails deleted by the custodian up to a predetermined period of time prior to the collection for example seven days prior to the collection and transmit the copied emails to the collections server .

Regardless of the storage resource location from which data is being collected or the particular type of data being collected the collections server is configured to store the data first while the collection is still ongoing in the short term staging drive until the particular collection is complete attach a barcode to the set of data resulting from the particular collection and then copy the data set to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. Furthermore the collections server transmits the barcode information to the electronic discovery management server to be stored in the database server for example in the custodian s profile in the Unified Database in relation to the stored information about the particular collection whether it was a local collection an active email collection a file server collection etc. Therefore the barcode can be used for reference at a later date to determine the origin of the data. After the data has been copied to the long term storage area network the collections server compares the hashing of the data in permanent storage to the original data in the staging drive and if the hashing is identical purges the data from the staging drive .

Once the data has entered the long term storage area network it is not necessarily ready for review. Indeed it is likely that the data may need to be processed before it is searchable and suitable for review by investigators and attorneys. For example the files may be encrypted in the form in which they are collected and sent to the long term storage area network . Therefore according to some embodiments the data may be copied to the conversion services server where a series of decryption and standardization functions may be applied to it. After the data is decrypted and standardized it is returned to the long term storage area network and may remain there to be accessed for review purposes.

With reference now to a block diagram is provided that illustrates the electronic discovery management structure of the present invention according to some embodiments. As illustrated in certain processes described herein may be categorized within one of case management as represented by Block custodian management as represented by Block or data management as represented by Block . As described above the electronic discovery system is arranged such that cases custodians and data may be managed independent of one another. However there is still an element of the categorization of processes within the categories that is conceptual and it should be understood that certain processes may be correctly assigned to more than one category. Therefore while the architecture of the system allows separate management of custodians cases and data certain processes of the present invention may affect more than one of the foregoing.

The first process that falls within the case management category is creation of a matter or case as a framework for litigation support activities as shown in Block . As described above the e discovery manager may enter into the user interface certain information about a particular matter or case such as a case name and or number a short description of the matter case a legal identifier the particular requester i.e. who asked for the case to be opened managers or contacts for the matter i.e. individuals involved in the substance of the matter rather than the process like the e discovery manager etc.

It is noted that custodian information is stored separately from the case information allowing for the same custodian in multiple cases. This provides for the electronic discovery system of the present invention to have scalability whereby evidence associated with one custodian may be used in multiple cases.

The electronic discovery management server stores this information in the case database in the database server . The case database houses this information such that all information relating to a particular matter or case is related within the case database and a user such as a manager or contact can use the user interface to view and edit a profile of the matter or case.

The next process within case management is the creation of preservation notices and surveys specific to the matter as shown in Block . In this regard the e discovery manager may through the user interface either generate a new preservation notices or surveys relevant to the particular case or matter to be stored in the case profile in the case database or alternatively link a preservation notice or survey already stored in the database server to the case profile of the specific case or matter at issue. Also within case management is the creation of search terms pertinent to the case as represented by Block . As described above the e discovery manager or a contact or manager for the case may use the user interface to input individual search terms or search term sets to be applied to the data harvested in the case. In some embodiments the search terms may be limited to be used with particular custodians and or with particular harvested data types. The search terms will be saved in the case database so that they may be readily applied to harvested data and used in connection with storing the resulting responsive data.

The processes of entering relevant attachments notes and updates to a particular case or matter also falls within the case management category as demonstrated by Blocks and . The e discovery manager or a case contact or manager may use the user interface to upload documents and enter notes and other relevant data including updates and reminders to be stored in the case profile of the case in the case database . Once these attachments notes and updates are added they may be referenced whenever a user views the case profile through the user interface . The cost estimation modules of the present invention are also processes that are categorized as case management processes as shown in Block . In this regard the electronic discovery management server utilizes a cost estimation tool to determine the cost of harvesting and reviewing data based on a number of factors including for example number of custodians amount of harvested data data types etc. Finally case management also includes a number of tasking and workflow processes that are represented by block .

Moving now to custodian management certain processes falling within the category of custodian management are shown in Block . While the processes involving generation of the Unified Directory certainly could be categorized as custodian management the processes shown in include those processes involving management of custodians within the scope of a case or matter. In that regard the first process of custodian management included in is the addition of custodians to a case or matter as shown in Block . As described above the e discovery manager may use the user interface to link a custodian s profile from the Unified Directory to the particular case profile in the case database . Thus the custodian profile and case profile are correlated. The next processes within custodian management is the transmission of preservation notices and surveys to custodians as shown in Block and the presentation of the surveys to custodians as shown in Block . The electronic discovery management server uses the contact information in the custodian s profile in the Unified Directory to transmit the preservation notice s and survey s stored in the case profile to the custodian. In some embodiments a standard email function is used so that the only information needed from the Unified Directory is the custodian s email address. When the custodian checks her email the survey will appear as a message therein and when she opens that message the survey will be presented to her. The survey may be configured such that when she fills it out the survey is automatically transmitted back to the database server for storage in the case profile and the custodian s profile.

Also falling within custodian management is the process of releasing custodians from a matter to a case as shown in Block . The e discovery manager uses the user interface to mark the custodian s profile so that the custodian is now activated for collection of data. This may occur within the case database since the custodian s profile is linked thereto. Once the custodian is released marked the electronic discovery management server may access the custodian s profile and initialize collection based on the various data storage locations identified in the profile. Therefore as represented by Block the electronic discovery management server may automatically determine the data types and locations of data to be harvested by accessing the custodian s profile in the Unified Directory . Alternatively the e discovery manager may manually make the same determination by accessing and viewing the custodian s profile. Finally as with case management custodian management also includes a number of tasking and workflow processes that are represented by Block .

The last category is data management represented by Block . One major set of processes within data management are the processes relating to the harvesting of data as shown in Block . These processes include the collection of data from all the different storage areas of a particular custodian including the custodian s local storage on her personal computer s the custodian s network storage areas the custodian s email and any other areas as are described herein. All of the data in the various storage areas is copied and transmitted to the collections server as described in detail for each particular collection tool or process. Upon reaching the collections server data resulting from a particular collection is temporarily stored in the short term staging drive until the collection is complete at which point it is stored in the long term storage area network in association with a specific identifying barcode. The foregoing process is represented by Block . The data may require decryption or standardization functions to be applied to it in order for it to be searchable and or otherwise usable so the next process that falls within data management is the copying of the data to the conversion services server for analysis and conversion as necessary as shown in Block . Once the data is converted it is returned to the long term storage area network to be used in review.

Also falling within data management is the association of particular data sets with particular sets of search terms stored in the case profile of the case database . In this regard certain search terms stored in the case profile are stored with the intention of being applied to certain types of data and or certain custodian s data. Alternatively certain search terms may be applied to all data collected for a specific case. In either instance the electronic discovery management server accesses the case profile determines the search terms to be applied and associates the search terms with the barcode of the appropriate data sets in long term storage. Thus the search terms will be applied to that data and the results will be generated and presented to reviewers for analysis. Finally as with the other management categories data management also includes a number of tasking and workflow processes that are represented by Block .

With reference to an exemplary process for managing a case is provided in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. As represented by Block a case or matter is created by the e discovery manager and stored in the case database . Next custodians are added to the case as shown in Block by linking the custodian profiles of the Unified Directory to the case profile. Next as represented by Block the e discovery manager and or the case contact or manager adds search terms to be applied to data harvested for the case including instructions as to applying the search terms to particular data types or custodians. Block represents the determination that must be made as to whether there is a matter or just a case. If there is no matter because preservation notices are not required for example for an audit then the process will move straight to the initialization of data collection. On the other hand if there is matter rather than just a case then the creation of preservation notices is required as shown in Block .

The preservation notice as shown in Block is transmitted to the custodians added to the matter perhaps using email. As shown in Block a reminder notice module may be employed. As shown in Block the reminder notice module transmits periodic reminder notices to custodians. The notices may be sent over email and may remind custodians about the preservation notice and or remind custodians to fill out surveys. With regard to surveys in the event a survey is required or desired according to Block a survey is created. The survey may be saved in the case profile in the case database . As shown in Block it is possible to enable the survey to be attached to and transmitted with the preservation notices.

Next as shown in Block the e discovery manager may release custodians from the matter to the case which initialized collection of the custodian s data. As shown in Block the e discovery manager or the electronic discovery management server accesses the custodian profile determines the data types and location to be collected and initializes the applicable collection tools to go collect the data. Once the data has been collected and a unique barcode has been assigned to each dataset based on the particular custodian and storage location from which it originated as shown in Block the search terms previously stored in the case profile may be assigned to the dataset based on the input instructions regarding the search terms. These search terms may be applied to the dataset and the results saved to be presented to reviewers for analysis.

With reference to an exemplary process for managing a custodian is provided in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. First as represented by Block a custodian is added to a matter or case. In this regard the custodian s profile in the Unified Directory is linked to the relevant case or matter profile. In order to locate the custodian s profile a custodian search module may be employed as shown in Block . Therefore the e discovery manager may enter any identifying information about the custodian whether it is the custodian s name network user identification email address etc. The custodian search module will take the input information and search the Unified Directory for a match. If more than one match is obtained the user interface will present all matches and allow the e discovery manager to browse the associated profiles to determine the intended custodian. In this way the correct custodian is identified and the profile of that custodian is linked to the appropriate case or matter.

As represented by Block the electronic discovery management server may determine whether the particular custodian added is a member of the enterprise do not call list. In this regard there may be an indication in the custodian s profile in the Unified Directory that the particular custodian should not be contacted regarding collections and an alternative contact should be used such as an administrative assistant of the custodian. Alternatively there may be a separate do not call list stored in the database server that must be accessed and searched to determine whether or not the custodian appears on that list. In either instance a determination is made as to whether or not the custodian should be directly contacted and in the event the custodian should not be directly contacted the contact information for the custodian s assistant or other stand in should be obtained. This information will be used later for transmitting preservation notices and surveys.

Next in accordance with Block a determination is made by the electronic discovery management server as to whether the custodian has been added to a matter or a case. If it is a case then the custodian is verified as shown in Block supplemental data may be added to the custodian profile in the Unified Directory as required as shown in Block and then the various collection tools are initialized by the electronic discovery management server for collection of the custodian s data as shown in Block . On the other hand if it is a matter then preservation notices are required. Therefore as shown in Block a preservation notice is sent via email to the custodian or custodian stand in. As shown in Block the custodian may then be inactivated from the case because for some reason data does not need to be collected from the custodian. In the future when it comes time to collect from the custodian the custodian will be reactivated as shown in Block .

After a preservation notice is sent a determination is made by the electronic discovery management server as to whether a survey is required as shown in Block . It should be noted that in alternate embodiments the decision on whether to send a survey may be made prior to sending the preservation notice. In such alternate embodiments if the survey is required it may become a component of the preservation notice and thus accessed simultaneously by the custodian. If a survey is required it is transmitted in conjunction with a preservation notice and the answers are collected by the electronic discovery management server and stored in the database server as shown in Block . Reminder notices for the preservation notices and surveys may also be transmitted to the custodian as shown in Block . Next once it is time to collect data the custodian is released from the matter to the case as shown in Block and the various collection tools are initialized by the electronic discovery management server for collection of the custodian s data as shown in Block . In this process the custodian s profile in the Unified Directory is accessed in order to determine the various locations where the custodian may have stored data. Finally as shown in Block the custodian s data is collected.

Referring to flow diagrams are presented of a method for harvest data from various data sources in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. At Event the collection of data ensues and at Event the type of data is identified. Data Block signifies active email that is collected from an exchange system or the like. At Event the automated active email collection tool is implemented to collect email from identified email address. As previously noted and in accordance with present embodiments of the invention if a custodian profile for a custodian released for collection includes an email address for an email account on the enterprise email server then the electronic discovery management server may undertake to collect the files from the enterprise email server by initializing the active email collection tool running on collections server . In some embodiments the active email collection tool is configured to access the particular Microsoft Exchange server within the enterprise email server on which the custodian s account resides which is known based on the information included in the Unified Directory copy all email located there including emails deleted up to a designated prior period for example seven days prior to the collection and transmit the copied emails to the collections server . The email collection tool is also capable of implementing bulk requests and for collecting email on a scheduled basis such as daily. The email collection tool is additionally capable of being implementing enterprise wide and requires no server identifiers or the like to collect the active email. In this regard the email collection tool serves to reduce security risk.

At Event a barcoding tool is implemented at a staging location such as short term staging drive to attach a barcode to the set of email resulting from the particular collection. The barcoded data is then copied and communicated to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. Furthermore the collections server transmits the barcode information to the electronic discovery management server to be stored in the database server for example in the custodian s profile in the Unified Database in relation to the stored information about the particular collection. Therefore the barcode can be used for reference at a later date to determine the origin of the data. After the data has been copied to the long term storage area network the collections server compares the hashing of the data in permanent storage to the original data in the staging drive and if the hashing is identical purges the data from the staging drive . As such barcoding is performed without the need to execute the barcoding tool on an exchange server and as such no human intervention is needed in the barcode process. In accordance with embodiments of the present invention one barcode may be assigned per custodian per data type and per event i.e. case matter etc. 

At Event the collected email data may be associated with a specific search term set or sets. When the search terms are applied a listing of the files and documents including those terms the search term hit list are presented to the reviewer and also stored in the database server . The reviewer may provide an indication of this to the electronic discovery management server which may then make a determination that other documents within the search term hit list are more likely to be responsive.

At Event the collected and barcoded active email data is copied to a processing drive for subsequent analysis. It should be noted that the nature of email data obviates the need to perform conversion and or decryption on the data set. At Event the active email data set is loaded into the analysis tool and at Event the data set is exported to the requestor reviewer for analysis.

Data Block signifies other non exchange server based email such as email accessed through a client server collaborative application such as Lotus Notes or the like. At Event NSF files or any other file types associated with non exchange server based email is manually harvested from an enterprise grade email server having collaborative capabilities such as a Lotus Domino server or the like.

At Event a barcoding tool is implemented at a staging location such as short term staging drive to attach a barcode to the set of non exchange server email resulting from the particular collection. The barcoded data is then copied and communicated to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. Furthermore the collections server transmits the barcode information to the electronic discovery management server to be stored in the database server for example in the custodian s profile in the Unified Database in relation to the stored information about the particular collection. Therefore the barcode can be used for reference at a later date to determine the origin of the data. After the data has been copied to the long term storage area network the collections server compares the hashing of the data in permanent storage to the original data in the staging drive and if the hashing is identical purges the data from the staging drive .

At Event the collected non exchange server email data may be associated with a specific search term set or sets. When the search terms are applied a listing of the files and documents including those terms the search term hit list are presented to the reviewer and also stored in the database server . The reviewer may provide an indication of this to the electronic discovery management server which may then make a determination that other documents within the search term hit list are more likely to be responsive.

At Event the NSF files or any other file types associated with non exchange server based email that may be encrypted is decrypted using a decryption tool in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The encryption of NSF files occurs at the user level and therefore only the user has the password necessary for decryption. The decryption tool allows for decryption of the NSF file type data without the knowledge of the user encrypter. The decryption tool finds ID files that exist anywhere in the enterprise system creates a database of the ID files associates the database with the user encrypter and subsequently decrypts the data.

At Event the non exchange server email data set is loaded into the analysis tool and at Event the data set is exported to the requestor reviewer for analysis.

Data Block signifies journaled data such as electronic commerce data stored on a repository for the purpose of regulation compliance to regulating bodies such as the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC or the like. At Event criteria is extracted from input system and manually entered in a designated third party system for data retrieval.

At Event the barcoding tool is implemented at a staging location such as short term staging drive to attach a barcode to the set of journaled data resulting from the particular collection. The barcoded data is then copied and communicated to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. At Event the collected and barcoded journaled data may be associated with a specific search term set or sets.

At Event source to processing is implemented to insure that any loose files are properly formatted in a standardized format. In this regard according to one embodiment of the invention loose files are examined for relevancy and if relevant stored in a proper data format such as a PST file or the like. The metadata associated with the non standardized files is retained and remains with the reformatted data files. Source to processing file conversions may be required on EML formatted files MSG formatted files and the like.

At Event the journaled data set is loaded into the analysis tool and at Event the journaled data set is exported to the requestor reviewer for analysis.

Referring to data block signifies data from a local Personal Computer PC such as enterprise PC . At Event the local collection tool is implemented to collect data from designated PCs by taking a snapshot of the device s hard drive. According to one embodiment of the invention the local collection tool may be autodeployed thus obviating the need for any manual entry by the e discovery manager or the like. In other embodiments of the invention the local collection tool may be employed to collect data from network storage.

At Event the barcoding tool is implemented at a staging location such as short term staging drive to attach a barcode to the set of local PC data resulting from the particular collection. The barcoded data is then copied and communicated to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. At Event the collected and barcoded local PC data may be associated with a specific search term set or sets.

At Event source to processing is implemented to insure that any loose files are properly formatted in a standardized format. In this regard according to one embodiment of the invention loose files are examined for relevancy and if relevant stored in a proper data format such as a PST file or the like. The metadata associated with the non standardized files is retained and remains with the reformatted data files. Source to processing file conversions may be required on EML formatted files MSG formatted files IPD formatted files and the like.

At Event the local PC files that may be encrypted are decrypted using a decryption tool in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The decryption tool allows for decryption of the PC files data without the knowledge of the user encrypter. The decryption tool finds ID files that exist anywhere in the enterprise system creates a database of the ID files associates the database with the user encrypter and subsequently decrypts the data.

At Event the local PC data set is loaded into the analysis tool and at Event the local PC data set is exported to the requestor reviewer for analysis.

Data block signifies data from network storage such as a shared drive or HomeSpace. At Event the file server collection tool is implemented to automatically collect data from shared drives and or HomeSpace. According to one embodiment of the invention the file server collection tool may be autodeployed thus obviating the need for any manual entry by the e discovery manager or the like.

At Event the barcoding tool is implemented at a staging location such as short term staging drive to attach a barcode to the set of network storage data resulting from the particular collection. The barcoded data is then copied and communicated to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. At Event the collected and barcoded network storage data may be associated with a specific search term set or sets.

At Event source to processing is implemented to insure that any loose files are properly formatted in a standardized format. In this regard according to one embodiment of the invention loose files are examined for relevancy and if relevant stored in a proper data format such as a PST file or the like. The metadata associated with the non standardized files is retained and remains with the reformatted data files. Source to processing file conversions may be required on EML formatted files MSG formatted files IPD formatted files and the like.

At Event the network storage files that may be encrypted are decrypted using a decryption tool in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The decryption tool allows for decryption of the network storage data without the knowledge of the user encrypter. The decryption tool finds ID files that exist anywhere in the enterprise system creates a database of the ID files associates the database with the user encrypter and subsequently decrypts the data.

At Event the network storage data set is loaded into the analysis tool and at Event the network storage data set is exported to the requestor reviewer for analysis.

Data block signifies electronic data for forensics. At Event a forensic collector tool such as EnCase may be executed on the devices of interest to collect data. According to one embodiment of the invention the forensic collector tool may be automatically deployed on the device of interest without the knowledge of the device user. In accordance with another embodiment of the invention a computer watcher tool may be implemented not shown in that watches the network to determine the addition or subtraction of computers to the network based on ID s IP addresses returned from the network.

At Event the barcoding tool is implemented at a staging location such as short term staging drive to attach a barcode to the set of forensic data resulting from the particular collection. The barcoded data is then copied and communicated to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. At Event the collected and barcoded forensic data may be associated with a specific search term set or sets.

At Event source to processing is implemented to insure that any loose files are properly formatted in a standardized format. In this regard according to one embodiment of the invention loose files are examined for relevancy and if relevant stored in a proper data format such as a PST file or the like. The metadata associated with the non standardized files is retained and remains with the reformatted data files. Source to processing may be required on EML formatted files MSG formatted files IPD formatted files and the like.

At Event the forensic files that may be encrypted are decrypted using a decryption tool in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The decryption tool allows for decryption of the network storage data without the knowledge of the user encrypter. The decryption tool finds ID files that exist anywhere in the enterprise system creates a database of the ID files associates the database with the user encrypter and subsequently decrypts the data.

At Event the forensic data set is loaded into the analysis tool and at Event the network storage data set is exported to the requestor reviewer for analysis.

Data block signifies collaborative data such as data residing at discovery sites for example LiveLink or the like. At Event a discovery site collector tool such as a LiveLink collector tool may be executed on the devices of interest to collect data. According to one embodiment of the invention the discovery site collector preserves at least a portion of the discovery site database in the e discovery database including all files and all revisions of the files. In this regard the discovery site collector tool queries against the database to define what files need to be retrieved then copies those files based on the result of the query. Metadata pertaining to the files is retained in the case management system tables. In accordance with another embodiment of the invention the discovery site collector tool collects the documents and the related metadata and uses the metadata to automatically rename the files.

At Event the barcoding tool is implemented at a staging location such as short term staging drive to attach a barcode to the set of discovery site data resulting from the particular collection. The barcoded data is then copied and communicated to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. At Event the collected and barcoded discovery site data may be associated with a specific search term set or sets.

At Event source to processing is implemented to insure that any loose files are properly formatted in a standardized format. In this regard according to one embodiment of the invention loose files are examined for relevancy and if relevant stored in a proper data format such as a PST file or the like. The metadata associated with the non standardized files is retained and remains with the reformatted data files. Source to processing may be required on EML formatted files MSG formatted files IPD formatted files and the like.

At Event the discovery site data set is loaded into the analysis tool and at Event the discovery site data set is exported to the requestor reviewer for analysis.

Thus present embodiments herein disclosed provide for improvements in electronic discovery. Embodiments herein disclosed provide for an enterprise wide e discovery system that provides for data to be identified located retrieved preserved searched reviewed and produced in an efficient and cost effective manner across the entire enterprise system. In addition by structuring management of e discovery based on case matter custodian and data and providing for linkage between the same further efficiencies are realized in terms of identifying locating and retrieving data and leveraging results of previous e discoveries with current requests.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible.

Those skilled in the art may appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

