---

title: System and method of aggregating networked social content and facilitating uncapped engagement in a networked virtual environment
abstract: A system and method is disclosed for aggregating networked content, and allowing user to obtain an unlimited number of engagements relating to networked content. The system may publish a ranking of users based on the number of engagements obtained by the users. Such ranking may facilitate highlighting or otherwise setting apart those users who have obtained more engagements relating to content, thereby allowing a user or user's content to be noticed by others, even among a vast number of networked content that is available.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09519690&OS=09519690&RS=09519690
owner: EscapeX Limited
number: 09519690
owner_city: Kowloon
owner_country: HK
publication_date: 20160526
---
The invention relates to a system and method of aggregating networked social content and facilitating uncapped engagement in a networked virtual environment in exchange for user resources.

With the vast amount of content available through networked virtual environments such as through various networked content sites e.g. social media platforms it is difficult for a user to get noticed or otherwise be distinguished from other users. For instance conventional systems that allow users to express interest in a topic are more content centric rather than user centric. For instance using the Facebook platform although a user may indicate an interest in a given topic using the like feature this mechanism aims to assess an overall user wide interest level in the content being liked but does not distinguish one user who likes the content from another user because each user is generally limited to a single like. The same is true for conventional comment assessments in which a user may vote up or down a given comment or other content item. Conventional systems fail to provide mechanisms through which a given user is able to get noticed by or otherwise be distinguished from other users.

The invention addressing these and other drawbacks relates to a system and method of aggregating networked social content and facilitating uncapped engagement in a networked virtual environment.

The system may aggregate networked content e.g. content that is made available to users via a network and display the content via a user interface. The content may include a post that includes content from a user a user comment on a post a user reply to a comment and or other type of content accessible to the system. For example the system may obtain social media content items from a system maintained social platform and or from third party social media platforms and display a listing of the social media content items. For each social media content item or other type of aggregated content the system may provide options through the user interface for a user to promote herself with respect to the social media content item.

The system may provide engagements in exchange for user resources. The user resources may include system provided resources e.g. virtual currency or other types of resources e.g. real currency such as fiat money commodity money digital currency etc. . So long as the user has sufficient resources the user may promote herself or others with uncapped i.e. unlimited engagements which may facilitate getting noticed by other users whether with respect to a social media content item that the user created or a social media content item that another user has created.

In implementations in which the system exchanges system provided resources for engagements the system may allocate the system provided resources in various ways. For instance the system may monitor user activity with respect to the system and award system provided resources based on the user activity allocate system provided resources in exchange for payment of real currency and or allocate system provided resources gifted from another user.

The options to engage may include for example a single engagement option a multi engagement option an objective based engagement option a maximum available engagement option a collaboration engagement option an algorithmic engagement option a donation engagement option and or other engagement options to opt to engage.

A single engagement option may include an option to engage one time in exchange for an amount of resources for the single engagement . A multi engagement option may include an option to engage a number of times greater than one in exchange for an amount of resources for the multi engagement which may be an integer multiple of the cost of a single engagement or be offered at a discount . An objective based engagement option may include an option to engage to achieve an objective such as engage to become a top N user . A maximum available engagement option may include an option to engage using whatever available resources the user may have. A collaboration engagement option may include an option to collaborate with one or more other users to collectively engage with the other users. An algorithmic engagement option may enable the user to specify conditions on which to automatically engage. An algorithmic engagement may include one in which instructions to engage in exchange for resources is previously defined by a user or the system on behalf of the user . For instance the user may specify that he wishes to maintain at least a top 3 ranking with respect to engagements. The system may store the specified instructions and automatically obtain engagements for the user even when the user is offline for example in order to maintain the top 3 ranking for the user or otherwise carry out the specified instructions . In this manner the user need not stay online or otherwise continuously monitor social media or other content in order to maintain a top 3 ranking. Instead the user may even while offline or otherwise not himself monitoring the rankings continue to exchange user resources for engagements in order to maintain his top 3 ranking or other ranking based on an algorithmic engagement option.

The system may track the engagements from the user as well as engagements from other users. For example the system may count the number of engagements made by each user with respect to a social media content item and provide engagement information indicating these numbers in association with the social media content item. For instance the user interface may include the engagement information with or otherwise adjacent to the social media content item. Doing so may serve multiple purposes.

For example publishing the engagement information may publicize a given user s engagements to other users which may not only facilitate the given user being noticed by other users but also spur competition among the users to achieve higher numbers of engagements. Publishing the engagement information may also indicate a level of user interest in a given social media content item in an uncapped manner. Thus a given user who expends more resources to engage with respect to a given social media content item may not only get noticed by other users including by the posting user who posted the social media content item if the posting user is different than the given user but also express a level of interest in the given social media content item.

In some instances the system may rank users according to their engagements. Such ranking may be performed per social media content item and or aggregated by user and be included with the engagement information. For example for a given social media content item the system may display the top N users who engaged the given social media content item the highest number of times.

In some instances a user who engaged may provide a response to the relevant social media content item. For example the user may provide a comment to a social media content item. The system may highlight the comment to distinguish the comment from other user comments based on the number of engagements by the user. For instance if a user engaged in relation to a given social media content item and commented on the given social media content item the system may highlight the comment based on the number of engagements made by the user. Such highlighting may include without limitation placing the comment at the bottom or top or other prominent position of the listing of comments graphically representing the comment differently than other comments e.g. enhanced font size different color etc. and or otherwise distinguishing the comment from other comments. In this manner not only will the user who engaged get noticed generally but her comments may be made more prominent as well.

In some instances the system may highlight the top N comments on a continuous basis such that the top N comments are updated in real time. A top N comment is one in which a user who created the comment is in the top N list of users who engaged.

In some instances the system may facilitate collaborative engagement. For instance the system may group two or more users who may collectively use their resources to engage on a social platform. In these instances the collaborative group may be collectively represented as a top N user and their comments may be collectively or individually treated as a top N comment. In this manner a group of users may pool their resources in order to become noticed by other users. This may encourage and facilitate teams of users who may compete to provide engagements. The system may in some implementations limit the number of users who may participate in a group or may allow an unlimited number of users to participate in a group .

In some implementations the system may match two or more users to participate in a group by request and or automatically. The system may match two or more users by request when such users or at least one of the users request such matching by providing the system with an identification of user s with which to match.

In some implementations the system may match two or more users automatically responsive to user requests to match with another user without providing an identity of another user with which to match or may be recommended by the system without a user identification of the other user s . In these implementations the system may identify other users with whom the user may collaborate to perform engagements. Such matching may be based on common user interests patterns of user engagements e.g. a user may be matched with another user based on their respective numbers frequency of engagements etc. .

In some implementations the system may encourage users to engage. For example and without limitation the system may offer rewards to users e.g. top N users who engage. The rewards may include without limitation a reward offered by a user e.g. a celebrity who posted a social media content item that is subsequently commented on and or is the subject of an engagement by other users a reward offered by the system e.g. a resource and or other reward. In some instances the system may receive a message from a user who posted a social media content item that encourages other users to engage. For example the user who posted the social media content item may include a celebrity that encourages fans other users to engage via the social media content item.

In some implementations a first user may donate a engagement to a second user. In this sense the first user may engage the second user on behalf of the second user. This is distinguished from a collaborative engagement because the first user will not be grouped with the second user. In some of these instances the system may maintain a history engagements made on behalf of other users and may highlight users who promote on behalf of others.

In some implementations the system may analyze engagements of users. Such analytics may be used to provide recommendations to users. For instance the system may analyze engagements of a given user and determine that the user has not engaged within the last two weeks or other time period when the user historically engaged every week. In this instance the system may generate an alert to encourage the user to engage. In some instances the system may analyze content items and recommend one or more content items on which the user may wish to engage based on historical engagements of the user or like minded users .

In some implementations the system may track various analytics such as without limitation users that replied to a given user users that engaged a given user users that mentioned or commented on a given user users who replied to a given user indications of a frequency of user interest in a given user s post e.g. every N items other users click on more to obtain details of a given post and or other statistics.

The system may be implemented in various contexts. For example and without limitation the system may be employed using entity specific e.g. celebrity artist etc. applications such as entity specific applications described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 519 125 filed Oct. 20 2014 entitled System and Method of Creating and Managing Entity specific Applications in an Integrated Platform which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Alternatively or additionally the system may be integrated with social media platforms forums blogs and or other platforms in which users may generally engage with other users in a virtual environment.

These and other objects features and characteristics of the system and or method disclosed herein as well as the methods of operation and functions of the related elements of structure and the combination of parts and economies of manufacture will become more apparent upon consideration of the following description and the appended claims with reference to the accompanying drawings all of which form a part of this specification wherein like reference numerals designate corresponding parts in the various figures. It is to be expressly understood however that the drawings are for the purpose of illustration and description only and are not intended as a definition of the limits of the invention. As used in the specification and in the claims the singular form of a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

The invention relates to a system and method of aggregating networked social content and facilitating uncapped engagement in a networked virtual environment. A networked virtual environment refers to an environment in which content may be exchanged shared or otherwise published between different users over a network. Such a networked virtual environment may include for example mobile devices that facilitate content sharing or publishing social media platforms which may be accessed by mobile devices and other platforms and or other component configured to provide content to users over a network.

A user engagement with content refers to an indication that a user should be distinguished with respect to the content over another user. Such engagement may indicate an interest in the content or may simply indicate that the user wishes to be distinguished with respect to the content from other users e.g. other users who may have not engaged with the content or have engaged less with the content than the user . As will be described below each engagement may be awarded in exchange for user resources and may be graphically represented alongside the content and or in other user interfaces . In this manner a first user who has more engagements than a second user may be differentiated by the system over the second user and may therefore be noticed by other users more so than the second user. Uncapped engagements refer to an ability by a given user to engage with content an unlimited number of times so long as a requisite number or amount of user resources is exchanged for the engagements.

Computer system may communicate with various user devices . Computer system may obtain indications of engagements with content from such user devices and store and publish the engagements as described herein with respect to engagement module illustrated in .

User device may provide interfaces for displaying content aggregated from various content platforms and facilitate user engagements with the content as described herein with respect to engagement module illustrated in . In some implementations aspects of the engagement module e.g. portions of the engagement module that programs user device may be implemented as a mobile application. For example the mobile application may be an entity specific application as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 519 125 filed Oct. 20 2014 entitled System and Method of Creating and Managing Entity specific Applications in an Integrated Platform which has been previously incorporated by reference.

User device may provide one or more user interfaces that collectively provide interfaces through which the aggregated content is presented along with options to obtain engagements with the content and publications of such engagements. The one or more user interfaces may also include for instance a media player that plays music videos etc. a social media browser that displays social media content aggregated from various social media platforms which may be integrated into a single display or separately navigable displays that each is displays social media content from a corresponding social media provider a loyalty display that displays loyalty items a fan board display a network e.g. Internet browser that can monitor and display previous visit histories and or other displays to provide artist content described herein.

A user device may be associated with a user e.g. an owner or possessor of the user device . Such association may be based on a registration of the user device e.g. a unique device identifier with a user identifier. Alternatively or additionally such association may be based on a mobile application executing on the user device in implementations in which the user device is a mobile device such as a smartphone tablet etc. . The mobile application may be registered for use by a user of the user device.

In an implementation computer system user device and or other system components may access one or more database s configured to store information generated accessed or otherwise maintained by the system and described herein e.g. engagements user profiles user accounts that indicate user resources etc. .

Application marketplace may include application markets that make available for download engagement module or portions thereof for integration into a user device . For example application marketplace may include without limitation the GOOGLE PLAY store APPLE APP store WINDOWS PHONE store BLACKBERRY WORLD and or other application markets. System may make engagement module or portions thereof available for download from an application marketplace . Alternatively or additionally system may make engagement module or portions thereof available for download from other sources such as directly from computer system .

Social media providers may include for example social media platforms e.g. FACEBOOK TWITTER INSTAGRAM FLICKR YOUTUBE etc. and or other providers that generally distribute content uploaded by users to be consumed by other users. The content may be generated by content sources such as individuals corporations and or other entities that may create content. Users may post social media content to one or more social media providers from which system may aggregate and facilitate uncapped engagement as described herein.

In some implementations content aggregator may aggregate networked content e.g. content that is made available to users via a network and display the content via a user interface. The content may include a post that includes content from a user a user comment on a post a user reply to a comment and or other type of content accessible to the system. For example content aggregator may obtain social media content items from a system maintained social platform and or from third party social media platforms and display a listing of the social media content items. For each social media content item or other type of aggregated content the system may provide options through the user interface for a user to promote herself with respect to the social media content item.

In some implementations resource manager may maintain resources available to a user. For example resource manager may maintain a user account database e.g. a database that tracks resources available to a given user. A user resource may include a system provided resource e.g. virtual currency or other types of resources e.g. real currency such as fiat money commodity money digital currency etc. . A user may acquire resources in various ways such as without limitation purchasing a resource using real currency earning resources by performing certain actions with respect to the system receiving resources from another user e.g. as a donation or gift and or other ways.

In a particular example resource manager may allocate the system provided resources in various ways. For instance exchange engine may monitor user activity with respect to the system and award system provided resources based on the user activity allocate system provided resources in exchange for payment of real currency and or allocate system provided resources gifted from another user.

In some implementations exchange engine may provide engagements in exchange for user resources. So long as the user has sufficient resources the user may promote i.e. publicize herself or others with uncapped i.e. unlimited engagements which may facilitate getting noticed by other users whether with respect to a social media content item that the user created or a social media content item that another user has created. Various amounts of user resources may be required to obtain an engagement. In a particular example ten units of a virtual currency which may be earned purchased or received as a gift or donation may be required to obtain a single engagement. Users may be ranked relative to other users based on the number of engagements each user has obtained for a given content item.

The options to engage may include for example a single engagement option a multi engagement option an objective based engagement option a maximum available engagement option a collaboration engagement option an algorithmic engagement option a donation engagement option and or other engagement options to opt to engage.

A single engagement option may include an option to engage one time in exchange for an amount of resources for the single engagement . A multi engagement option may include an option to engage a number of times greater than one in exchange for an amount of resources for the multi engagement which may be an integer multiple of the cost of a single engagement or be offered at a discount . An objective based engagement option may include an option to engage to achieve an objective such as engage to become a top N user . A maximum available engagement option may include an option to engage using whatever available resources the user may have. In some instances a user may have some remaining resources after having applied a maximum available engagement option. For example if an engagement must be obtained in exchange for 10 units of resources and the user has 67 units of resources the system may provide the user with 6 engagements in exchange for 60 units of resources and the user may have 7 units of resources remaining.

A collaboration engagement option may include an option to collaborate with one or more other users to collectively engage with the other users. An algorithmic engagement option may enable the user to specify conditions on which to automatically engage. An algorithmic engagement may include one in which instructions to engage in exchange for resources is previously defined by a user or the system on behalf of the user . For instance the user may specify that he wishes to maintain at least a top 3 ranking with respect to engagements. The system may store the specified instructions and automatically obtain engagements for the user even when the user is offline for example in order to maintain the top 3 ranking for the user or otherwise carry out the specified instructions . In this manner the user need not stay online or otherwise continuously monitor social media or other content in order to maintain a top 3 ranking. Instead the user may even while offline or otherwise not himself monitoring the rankings continue to exchange user resources for engagements in order to maintain his top 3 ranking or other ranking based on an algorithmic engagement option. Such algorithmic engagement options may be defined by a user and stored by the system in one or more user profiles. Such profiles may be stored in a profile database such as a database .

In some implementations the donation engagement option may allow a first user to donate an engagement to e.g. engage on behalf of or otherwise provide resources for a second user. In this sense the first user may engage the second user on behalf of the second user. This is distinguished from a collaborative engagement because the first user will not be grouped with the second user. In some of these instances exchange engine may maintain a history engagements made on behalf of other users and may highlight users who promote on behalf of others.

In some implementations the system may track and UI manager may publish the engagements from the user as well as engagements from other users. For example the system may count the number of engagements made by each user with respect to a social media content item and provide engagement information indicating these numbers in association with the social media content item. For instance UI manager may generate a user interface that includes the engagement information with or otherwise adjacent to the social media content item. Examples of user interfaces are illustrated in . Doing so may serve multiple purposes.

For example publishing the engagement information may publicize a given user s engagements to other users which may not only facilitate the given user being noticed by other users but also spur competition among the users to achieve higher numbers of engagements. Publishing the engagement information may also indicate a level of user interest in a given social media content item in an uncapped manner. Thus a given user who expends more resources to engage with respect to a given social media content item may not only get noticed by other users including by the posting user who posted the social media content item if the posting user is different than the given user but also express a level of interest in the given social media content item.

In some instances exchange engine may rank users according to their engagements. Such ranking may be performed per social media content item and or aggregated by user and be included with the engagement information. For example for a given social media content item the system may display the top N users who engaged the given social media content item the highest number of times.

In some implementations exchange engine may identify new posts that are available for engagement and provide an alert to a user that a new post is available. In this manner the user may be informed of such new posts even if the user is not logged into the system e.g. while offline or otherwise not actively using an application that provides access to the functions of the system . In some of these implementations the alert may provide options for the user to obtain an engagement such as without limitation an option to activate a mobile application to engage with the content an option to obtain an engagement relating to the content without activating a user interface of the mobile application e.g. obtain an engagement relating to the content directly from the alert which may be configured as a drop down notification rather than from a user interface of the mobile application and or other options to obtain an engagement related to the content.

In this manner the system facilitates improved operation of a user device e.g. a mobile device programmed with a mobile application in that at least some interfaces of the mobile application in some instances need not be activated in order to obtain engagements as well as to facilitate engagements even when the user is offline or otherwise not actively using the mobile application. In some implementations exchange engine may identify a new post and automatically obtain on behalf of a user a certain number of engagements in accordance with instructions from an algorithmic engagement option.

In some instances a user who engaged may provide a response to the relevant social media content item. For example the user may provide a comment to a social media content item. UI manager may highlight the comment to distinguish the comment from other user comments based on the number of engagements by the user. For instance if a user engaged in relation to a given social media content item and commented on the given social media content item UI manager may highlight the comment based on the number of engagements made by the user. Such highlighting may include without limitation placing the comment at the bottom or top or other prominent position of the listing of comments graphically representing the comment differently than other comments e.g. enhanced font size different color etc. and or otherwise distinguishing the comment from other comments. In this manner not only will the user who engaged get noticed generally but her comments may be made more prominent as well.

In some instances UI manager may highlight the top N comments on a continuous basis such that the top N comments are updated in real time. A top N comment is one in which a user who created the comment is in the top N list of users who engaged the most e.g. obtained the top N most engagements in exchange for user resources .

In some implementations collaboration engine may facilitate collaborative engagement. For instance collaboration engine may group two or more users who may collectively use their resources to engage on a social platform. In these instances the collaborative group may be collectively represented as a top N user and their comments may be collectively or individually treated as a top N comment. In this manner a group of users may pool their resources in order to become noticed by other users. This may encourage and facilitate teams of users who may compete to provide engagements. Collaboration engine may in some implementations limit the number of users who may participate in a group or may allow an unlimited number of users to participate in a group .

In some implementations collaboration engine may match two or more users to participate in a group by request and or automatically. Collaboration engine may match two or more users by request when such users or at least one of the users request such matching by providing collaboration engine with an identification of user s with which to match.

In some implementations collaboration engine may match two or more users automatically responsive to user requests to match with another user without providing an identity of another user with which to match or may be recommended by collaboration engine without a user identification of the other user s . In these implementations collaboration engine may identify other users with whom the user may collaborate to perform engagements. Such matching may be based on common user interests patterns of user engagements e.g. a user may be matched with another user based on their respective numbers frequency of engagements etc. .

In some implementations rewards manager may encourage users to engage. For example and without limitation rewards manager may offer rewards to users e.g. top N users who engage. The rewards may include without limitation a reward offered by a user e.g. a celebrity who posted a social media content item that is subsequently commented on and or is the subject of an engagement by other users a reward offered by the system e.g. a resource and or other reward. In some instances rewards manager may receive a message from a user who posted a social media content item that encourages other users to engage. For example the user who posted the social media content item may include a celebrity that encourages fans other users to engage via the social media content item.

In some implementations analytics engine may analyze engagements of users. Such analytics may be used to provide recommendations to users. For instance analytics engine may analyze engagements of a given user and determine that the user has not engaged within the last two weeks or other time period when the user historically engaged every week. In this instance the system may generate an alert to encourage the user to engage. In some instances analytics engine may analyze content items and recommend one or more content items on which the user may wish to engage based on historical engagements of the user or like minded users .

In some implementations analytics engine may track various analytics such as without limitation users that replied to a given user users that engaged a given user users that mentioned or commented on a given user users who replied to a given user indications of a frequency of user interest in a given user s post e.g. every N items other users click on more to obtain details of a given post and or other statistics.

In an operation process may include aggregating networked content. For example process may include obtaining content from a system provided content platforms such as system provided social platforms. In some instances process may include obtaining content from third party platforms such as third party social media platforms. In these instances process may include generating and providing requests to third party social media platforms to obtain content posted in association with a user account. The user account may belong to a user such as a celebrity or other user and the content may relate to social media content posted by or on behalf of the celebrity. In this example other users of the system may obtain engagements relating to content posted by the celebrity in order to get noticed by the celebrity as set forth herein.

Whether system provided or third party provided or both in an operation process may include displaying the aggregated content and options to indicate engagement. Such options may include a single engagement option a multi engagement option an objective based engagement option a maximum available engagement option a collaboration engagement option an algorithmic engagement option a donation engagement option and or other engagement options to opt to engage.

In an operation process may include receiving an indication to obtain an engagement relating to the content. For example the user may select an option to obtain an engagement. As used herein a selection of an option may include without limitation a click a gesture a contact on a touch screen a voice input and or other type of input that can indicate a selection of an option displayed via a user interface.

In an operation process may include determining whether the user has sufficient resources to obtain the indicated engagement. For example an engagement may require a certain number or amount of resources to obtain. The number or amount of resources may be specified either in advance or in real time as the content is created by a system administrator a user to which the content relates and or others.

In an operation responsive to a determination that the user has sufficient resources process may include incrementing an engagement count for the user based on the indicated engagement. Operation may also include decrementing the user resources for the engagement from a user account of resources associated with the user.

In an operation process may include ranking the user based on the number of engagements. The ranking may be based on number of engagement by a user for the specific content a ranking based on number of engagements for a specific application e.g. for entity specific applications the ranking may be based on overall number of engagements for content provided through an entity specific application a ranking based on overall number of engagements by the user with respect to the system and or other ranking relating to number of engagements by the user versus other users.

In an operation process may include publishing the rank. For example process may include displaying the rank alongside the content so that the user and others namely a celebrity user or other user that posted the content may notice the top N users with the most engagements relating to the content.

Returning to operation responsive to a determination that the user does not have sufficient resources for the indicated engagement in an operation process may include providing options for resource acquisition. Such options may include without limitation acquiring resources in exchange for real currency and or other types of resources acquiring resources by requesting another user provide a portion or all of the required resources acquiring resources by another user provide a portion or all of the real currency or other type of resources required to obtain the required resources and or other options to validly acquire the required resources.

In an operation process may include determining whether the user has selected a valid resource acquisition option. A valid resource acquisition option is one in which the required resources may be obtained e.g. when sufficient real currency or other resources have been or can be obtained .

In an operation responsive to a determination that the user has selected a valid resource acquisition option process may include facilitating the acquisition. On the other hand responsive to a determination that the user has not selected a valid resource acquisition option process may return to operation . In some instances process may provide a notification to the user that the user has not selected a valid resource acquisition option.

In an implementation as illustrated UI may include a resource quantity indicator a content portion an engagement ranking an option to initiate obtaining an engagement an indication of the number of engagements an option to view comments relating to posted content and or other features.

Resource quantity indicator may display a number of resources available to a user for obtaining engagements and other uses of the resources . As used herein throughout although the term number of resources or number of engagements is used resources and engagements may be quantified in ways other than a number. 

Content portion may display content that is posted by a user such as a celebrity or another user whose attention that other users wish to obtain through engagements.

Engagement ranking may display the ranking of users based on the number of engagements they have obtained with respect to the content. As illustrated an obtained engagement is illustrated as a star although other graphical indicia may be used to represent an engagement as well.

An option to initiate obtaining an engagement may when selected cause UI illustrated in to be displayed.

Indication of the number of engagements may display a number of engagements by all users relating to the content displayed in content portion .

Option to view comments relating to posted content may when selected cause UI illustrated in to be displayed. In some implementations all comments may be displayed in UI and or UI as well.

If a user does not have sufficient resources to obtain the engagements specified by options or other engagement option UI may prompt the user to acquire additional resources.

As illustrated UI may include an overall content engagement ranking portion which persistently displays engagement rankings of users relating to the content. Portion is similar to portion illustrated in . Overall application specific engagement ranking may display an overall engagement ranking for an application. For example this ranking may display a historical ranking of all engagements for a given application e.g. an entity specific application that displays the content and any comments for the content. In this manner a user who has historically obtained the most engagements but has not recently obtained engagements on current content may continue to be noticed by other users. This portion may alternatively or additionally display the historically the most engagements within that past N posts. Other types of metrics may be displayed as well such as trends in which users who are recently e.g. within the past N posts where N as used throughout refers to a number obtaining the most engagements. In this manner recent top N ranked users with respect to engagement may be persistently displayed.

Portion may persistently display any comments from the top N users displayed in portion . In this manner the top ranked users based on their numbers of engagements may have their comments persistently displayed. As used herein persistently displayed and similar terminology refers to not being scrollable. For example while portion may be scrolled up and down portions and may not be scrolled so that they are persistently displayed.

Although illustrated in as a single component computer system and end user device may each include a plurality of individual components e.g. computer devices each programmed with at least some of the functions described herein. In this manner some components of computer system and or end user device may perform some functions while other components may perform other functions as would be appreciated. Each of the computer system and end user device may include one or more physical processors that are programmed by computer program instructions such as engagement module . Each of the computer system and end user device may include a storage device configured to store the engagement module and or other information. Computer system may be configured as one or more networked servers and or other computer systems that can communicate with various user devices . A user device may be configured as a personal computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a smartphone a multi media player device and or other type of device that can display aggregated content and facilitate engagements as described herein.

Furthermore in some implementations engagement module or portions thereof may be incorporated within third party social media platform s . In some implementations engagement module or portions thereof may be made available to third party social media platform s via calls to computer system which may host engagement module or portions thereof . In these implementations computer system may provide the functions of engagement module through for example an Application Programming Interface a web service and or other type of networked service so that third party social media platform s may integrate the functions provided by engagement module through remote networked requests to computer system .

The various instructions described herein are exemplary only. Other configurations and numbers of instructions may be used so long as the processor s are programmed to perform the functions described herein. Furthermore it should be appreciated that although the various instructions are illustrated in as being co located within a single processing unit in implementations in which processor s includes multiple processing units one or more instructions may be executed remotely from the other instructions.

The description of the functionality provided by the different instructions described herein is for illustrative purposes and is not intended to be limiting as any of instructions may provide more or less functionality than is described. For example one or more of the instructions may be eliminated and some or all of its functionality may be provided by other ones of the instructions. As another example processor s may be programmed by one or more additional instructions that may perform some or all of the functionality attributed herein to one of the instructions.

The various instructions described herein may be stored in a storage device which may comprise random access memory RAM read only memory ROM and or other memory. The storage device may store the computer program instructions e.g. the aforementioned instructions to be executed by a processor as well as data that may be manipulated by the processor. The storage device may comprise floppy disks hard disks optical disks tapes or other storage media for storing computer executable instructions and or data.

The various databases described herein may be include or interface to for example an Oracle relational database sold commercially by Oracle Corporation. Other databases such as Informix DB2 Database 2 or other data storage including file based or query formats platforms or resources such as OLAP On Line Analytical Processing SQL Structured Query Language a SAN storage area network Microsoft Access or others may also be used incorporated or accessed. The database may comprise one or more such databases that reside in one or more physical devices and in one or more physical locations. The database may store a plurality of types of data and or files and associated data or file descriptions administrative information or any other data.

The various components illustrated in may be coupled to at least one other component via a network which may include any one or more of for instance the Internet an intranet a PAN Personal Area Network a LAN Local Area Network a WAN Wide Area Network a SAN Storage Area Network a MAN Metropolitan Area Network a wireless network a cellular communications network a Public Switched Telephone Network and or other network. In as well as in other drawing Figures different numbers of entities than those depicted may be used. Furthermore according to various implementations the components described herein may be implemented in hardware and or software that configure hardware.

Other implementations uses and advantages of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. The specification should be considered exemplary only and the scope of the invention is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims.

