---

title: 2-amino-6-methyl-4,4a,5,6-tetrahydropyrano[3,4-d][1,3]thiazin-8a(8H)-yl-1,3-thiazol-4-yl amides
abstract: 

and the variable Ris as defined in the specification. Corresponding pharmaceutical compositions, methods of treatment, methods of synthesis, and intermediates are also disclosed.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09605007&OS=09605007&RS=09605007
owner: Pfizer Inc.
number: 09605007
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160720
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 15 019 342 filed Feb. 9 2016 which claims the benefit of continuation application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 682 151 filed Apr. 9 2015 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 119 862 filed on Feb. 24 2015 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 977 774 filed on Apr. 10 2014 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates to small molecule compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof that are inhibitors of site amyloid precursor protein APP Cleaving Enzyme 1 BACE1 and inhibitors of BACE2. This invention relates to inhibiting the production of A beta peptides that can contribute to the formation of neurological deposits of amyloid protein. The present invention also relates to the treatment of Alzheimer s Disease AD and other neurodegenerative and or neurological disorders as well as the treatment of diabetes in mammals including humans. More particularly this invention relates to thioamidine compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof useful for the treatment of neurodegenerative and or neurological disorders such as AD and Down s Syndrome related to A beta peptide production.

Dementia results from a wide variety of distinctive pathological processes. The most common pathological processes causing dementia are Alzheimer s disease AD cerebral amyloid angiopathy CM and prion mediated diseases see e.g. Haan et al. Clin. Neurol. Neurosurg. 1990 92 4 305 310 Glenner et al. J. Neurol. Sci. 1989 94 1 28 . AD is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by memory impairment and cognitive dysfunction. AD affects nearly half of all people past the age of 85 the most rapidly growing portion of the United States population. As such the number of AD patients in the United States is expected to increase from about 4 million to about 14 million by 2050.

The accumulation of amyloid A peptides is believed to be one of the underlying causes of Alzheimer s Disease AD which is the most common cause of cognitive decline in the elderly Hardy Allsop Trends Pharmacol Sci. 1991 12 10 383 8 Selkoe Behay. Brain Res. 2008 192 1 106 13 . A the major protein constituent of amyloid plaques is derived from sequential cleavage of the type I integral membrane protein amyloid precursor protein APP by two proteases and secretase. Proteolytic cleavage of APP by the site APP cleaving enzymes BACE1 and BACE2 generates a soluble N terminal ectodomain of APP sAPP and the C terminal fragment C99. Subsequent cleavage of the membrane bound C99 fragment by the secretase liberates the various A peptide species of which A 40 and A 42 are the most predominant forms Vassar et al. J. Neurosci. 2009 29 41 12787 94 Marks Berg Neurochem. Res. 2010 35 181 210 . Therefore limiting the generation of A directly through inhibition of BACE1 is one of the most attractive approaches for the treatment of AD as BACE1 inhibitors could effectively inhibit the formation of all predominant A peptides.

In addition it has been determined that BACE1 knock out mice had markedly enhanced clearance of axonal and myelin debris from degenerated fibers accelerated axonal regeneration and earlier reinnervation of neuromuscular junctions compared with littermate controls. These data suggest BACE1 inhibition as a therapeutic approach to accelerate regeneration and recovery after peripheral nerve damage. See Farah et al. J. Neurosci. 2011 31 15 5744 5754 .

Insulin resistance and impaired glucose homoeostasis are important indicators of Type 2 diabetes and are early risk factors of AD. In particular there is a higher risk of sporadic AD in patients with Type 2 diabetes and AD patients are more prone to Type 2 diabetes Butler Diabetes 53 474 481 2004. . Recently it has also been proposed that AD should be reconsidered as Type 3 diabetes de la Monte J. Diabetes Sci. Technol. 2008 2 6 1101 1113 . Of special interest is the fact that AD and Type 2 diabetes share common pathogenic mechanisms and possibly treatments Park S. A. J. Clin. Neurol. 2011 7 10 18 Raffa Br. J. Clin. Pharmacol 2011 71 3 365 376 . Elevated plasma levels of A the product of BACE activities were recently associated with hyperglycemia and obesity in humans see Meakin et al. Biochem J. 2012 441 1 285 96. Martins Journal of Alzheimer s Disease 8 2005 269 282 . Moreover increased A production prompts the onset of glucose intolerance and insulin resistance in mice C zar Castellano Am. J. Physiol. Endocrinol. Metab. 302 E1373 E1380 2012 Delibegovic Diabetologia 2011 54 2143 2151 . Finally it is also suggested that circulating A could participate in the development of atherosclerosis in both humans and mice De Meyer Atherosclerosis 216 2011 54 58 Catapano Atherosclerosis 210 2010 78 87 Roher Biochimica et Biophysica Acta 1812 2011 1508 1514 .

Therefore it is believed that BACE1 levels may play a critical role in glucose and lipid homoeostasis in conditions of chronic nutrient excess. Specifically BACE1 inhibitors may be potentially useful for increasing insulin sensitivity in skeletal muscle and liver as illustrated by the fact that reduction in BACE1 decreases body weight protects against diet induced obesity and enhances insulin sensitivity in mice see Meakin et al. Biochem. J. 2012 441 1 285 96 . Of equal interest is the identification of LRP1 as a BACE1 substrate and the potential link to atherosclerosis Strickland Physiol. Rev. 88 887 918 2008 Hyman J. Biol. Chem. Vol. 280 No. 18 17777 17785 2005 .

Likewise inhibition of BACE2 is proposed as a treatment of Type 2 diabetes with the potential to preserve and restore cell mass and stimulate insulin secretion in pre diabetic and diabetic patients WO2011 020806 . BACE2 is a cell enriched protease that regulates pancreatic cell function and mass and is a close homologue of BACE1. Pharmacological inhibition of BACE2 increases cell mass and function leading to the stabilization of Tmem27. See Esterhazy et al. Cell Metabolism 2011 14 3 365 377 . It is suggested that BACE2 inhibitors are useful in the treatment and or prevention of diseases associated with the inhibition of BACE2 e.g. Type 2 diabetes with the potential to preserve and restore cell mass and stimulate insulin secretion in pre diabetic and diabetic patients WO2011 020806 .

Aminodihydrothiazine or thioamidine compounds are described in US2009 0082560 WO 2009 091016 and WO 2010 038686 as useful inhibitors of the secretase enzyme. Co pending PCT application PCT 162012 054198 filed by Pfizer Inc on Aug. 17 2012 also describes aminodihydrothiazine compounds that are useful inhibitors of the secretase enzyme. The present invention is directed to novel thioamidine compounds and their use in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases including AD as well as the treatment of metabolic diseases and conditions such as diabetes and obesity.

Another embodiment of the present invention is a pharmaceutical composition comprising compounds of Formula I or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer and a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle diluent or carrier. The pharmaceutical compositions described herein can be used for inhibiting production of amyloid protein and for inhibiting beta site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 BACE1 for treating a neurodegenerative disease and in particular Alzheimer s Disease for inhibiting BACE1 and or BACE2 activity for the therapeutic and or prophylactic treatment of diseases and disorders characterized by elevated amyloid levels including diabetes or Type 2 diabetes for increasing insulin sensitivity in skeletal muscle and liver in a mammal including humans and for treating and or preventing obesity.

The present invention is also directed to methods of treatment employing the compounds of Formula I such as 

 1 Methods of inhibiting BACE enzyme activity by administering a therapeutically effective amount of a thioamidine compound of any of the embodiments of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier to a mammal or a patient in need thereof.

 2 Methods for treating conditions or diseases of the central nervous system and neurological disorders in which the secretase enzyme is involved such as migraine epilepsy Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s disease brain injury stroke cerebrovascular diseases including cerebral arteriosclerosis cerebral amyloid angiopathy hereditary cerebral hemorrhage and brain hypoxia ischemia cognitive disorders including amnesia senile dementia HIV associated dementia Alzheimer s disease Huntington s disease Lewy body dementia vascular dementia drug related dementia tardive dyskinesia myoclonus dystonia delirium Pick s disease Creutzfeldt Jacob disease HIV disease Gilles de la Tourette s syndrome epilepsy muscular spasms and disorders associated with muscular spasticity or weakness including tremors and mild cognitive impairment MCI mental deficiency including spasticity Down syndrome and fragile X syndrome sleep disorders including hypersomnia circadian rhythm sleep disorder insomnia parasomnia and sleep deprivation and psychiatric disorders such as anxiety including acute stress disorder generalized anxiety disorder social anxiety disorder panic disorder post traumatic stress disorder agoraphobia and obsessive compulsive disorder factitious disorder including acute hallucinatory mania impulse control disorders including compulsive gambling and intermittent explosive disorder mood disorders including bipolar I disorder bipolar II disorder mania mixed affective state major depression chronic depression seasonal depression psychotic depression seasonal depression premenstrual syndrome PMS premenstrual dysphoric disorder PDD and postpartum depression psychomotor disorder psychotic disorders including schizophrenia schizoaffective disorder schizophreniform and delusional disorder drug dependence including narcotic dependence alcoholism amphetamine dependence cocaine addiction nicotine dependence and drug withdrawal syndrome eating disorders including anorexia bulimia binge eating disorder hyperphagia obesity compulsive eating disorders and pagophagia sexual dysfunction disorders urinary incontinence neuronal damage disorders including ocular damage retinopathy or macular degeneration of the eye tinnitus hearing impairment and loss and brain edema nerve injury treatment including accelerating regeneration and recovery after peripheral nerve damage and pediatric psychiatric disorders including attention deficit disorder attention deficit hyperactive disorder conduct disorder and autism in a mammal preferably a human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The compounds of Formula I may also be useful for improving memory both short term and long term and learning ability. The text revision of the fourth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders DSM IV TR 2000 American Psychiatric Association Washington D.C. provides a diagnostic tool for identifying many of the disorders described herein. The skilled artisan will recognize that there are alternative nomenclatures nosologies and classification systems for disorders described herein including those as described in the DMS IV TR and that terminology and classification systems evolve with medical scientific progress 

 3 Methods for treating a neurological disorder such as migraine epilepsy Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s disease Niemann Pick type C brain injury stroke cerebrovascular disease cognitive disorder sleep disorder or a psychiatric disorder such as anxiety factitious disorder impulse control disorder mood disorder psychomotor disorder psychotic disorder drug dependence eating disorder and pediatric psychiatric disorder in a mammal preferably a human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof 

 4 Methods for the treatment e.g. delaying the progression or onset of diabetes or diabetes related disorders including Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes impaired glucose tolerance insulin resistance hyperglycemia and diabetic complications such as atherosclerosis coronary heart disease stroke peripheral vascular disease nephropathy hypertension neuropathy and retinopathy 

 5 Methods for the treatment of obesity co morbidities such as metabolic syndrome. Metabolic syndrome includes diseases conditions or disorders such as dyslipidemia hypertension insulin resistance diabetes e.g. Type 2 diabetes coronary artery disease and heart failure. For more detailed information on metabolic syndrome see e.g. Zimmet P. Z. et al. The Metabolic Syndrome Perhaps an Etiologic Mystery but Far From a Myth Where Does the International Diabetes Federation Stand Medscape Diabetes Endocrinology 7 2 2005 and Alberti K. G. et al. The Metabolic Syndrome A New Worldwide Definition Lancet 366 1059 62 2005 and

 6 Methods for the treatment of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease NAFLD and hepatic insulin resistance 

The present invention is also directed to combination therapies wherein the compounds of this invention may also be used in conjunction with other pharmaceutical agents for the treatment of the diseases conditions and or disorders described herein. Therefore methods of treatment that include administering compounds of the present invention in combination with other pharmaceutical agents are also provided 

All patents patent applications and references referred to herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Other features and advantages of this invention will be apparent from this specification and the appendent claims which describe the invention. It is to be understood that both the foregoing and the following detailed description are exemplary only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

The present invention may be understood more readily by reference to the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention and the examples included therein. It is to be understood that this invention is not limited to specific methods of synthesis which may of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

In this specification and in the claims that follow reference will be made to a number of terms that shall be defined to have the following meanings 

As used herein eating disorders refer to illnesses in which the patient suffers disturbances in his her eating behaviors and related thoughts and emotions. Representative examples of obesity related eating disorders include overeating bulimia binge eating disorder compulsive dieting nocturnal sleep related eating disorder pica Prader Willi syndrome and night eating syndrome.

 Patient refers to warm blooded animals such as for example guinea pigs mice rats gerbils cats rabbits dogs cattle goats sheep horses monkeys chimpanzees and humans.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable means the substance or composition must be compatible chemically and or toxicologically with the other ingredients comprising a formulation and or the mammal being treated therewith.

The term therapeutically effective amount means an amount of a compound of the present invention that i treats or prevents the particular disease condition or disorder ii attenuates ameliorates or eliminates one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder or iii prevents or delays the onset of one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder described herein.

The term treating as used herein unless otherwise indicated means reversing alleviating inhibiting the progress of delaying the progression of delaying the onset of or preventing the disorder or condition to which such term applies or one or more symptoms of such disorder or condition. The term treatment as used herein unless otherwise indicated refers to the act of treating as treating is defined immediately above. The term treating also includes adjuvant and neo adjuvant treatment of a subject. For the avoidance of doubt reference herein to treatment includes reference to curative palliative and prophylactic treatment and to the administration of a medicament for use in such treatment.

The term alkyl refers to a linear or branched chain saturated hydrocarbyl substituent i.e. a substituent obtained from a hydrocarbon by removal of a hydrogen in one embodiment containing from one to six carbon atoms. Non limiting examples of such substituents include methyl ethyl propyl including n propyl and isopropyl butyl including n butyl isobutyl sec butyl and tert butyl pentyl isoamyl hexyl and the like.

The term alkoxy refers to a linear or branched chain saturated hydrocarbyl substituent attached to an oxygen radical i.e. a substituent obtained from a hydrocarbon alcohol by removal of the hydrogen from the OH in one embodiment containing from one to six carbon atoms. Non limiting examples of such substituents include methoxy ethoxy propoxy including n propoxy and isopropoxy butoxy including n butoxy isobutoxy sec butoxy and tert butoxy pentoxy hexoxy and the like.

The term alkenyl refers to a linear or branched chain hydrocarbyl substituent i.e. a substituent obtained from a hydrocarbon by removal of a hydrogen which contains at least one carbon carbon double bond in one embodiment containing from three to six carbon atoms. Non limiting examples of such substituents include allyl propenyl butenyl isobutenyl butadienyl pentenyl pentadienyl hexenyl hexadienyl and the like. The term alkenyloxy refers to an alkenyl group attached to an oxygen radical.

The term alkynyl refers to a linear or branched chain hydrocarbyl substituent i.e. a substituent obtained from a hydrocarbon by removal of a hydrogen which contains at least one carbon carbon triple bond in one embodiment containing from three to six carbon atoms. Non limiting examples of such substituents include propynyl butynyl isobutynyl pentynyl hexynyl and the like. The term alkynyloxy refers to an alkynyl group attached to an oxygen radical.

The term alkylene refers to an alkanediyl group i.e. a substituent obtained from a hydrocarbon by removal of two hydrogens in one embodiment containing from three to five carbons. Non limiting examples of such groups include propylene butylene and pentylene.

In some instances the number of carbon atoms in a hydrocarbyl substituent i.e. alkyl cycloalkyl etc. is indicated by the prefix C C or C wherein x is the minimum and y is the maximum number of carbon atoms in the substituent. Thus for example C C alkyl or Calkyl refers to an alkyl substituent containing from 1 to 6 carbon atoms. Illustrating further C Ccycloalkyl or C cycloalkyl refers to saturated cycloalkyl group containing from 3 to 6 carbon ring atoms.

The term cycloalkyl refers to a carbocyclic substituent obtained by removing a hydrogen from a saturated carbocyclic molecule for example one having three to six carbon atoms or having three to nine carbon atoms. The term cycloalkyl includes mono bi and tricyclic saturated carbocycles as well as bridged and fused ring carbocycles and also spiro fused carbocyclic ring systems. The term Ccycloalkyl means a radical of a three to nine membered ring system which includes the groups cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl cyclononyl bicyclopentyl bicyclohexyl bicycloheptyl bicyclooctyl bicyclononyl spiropentyl spirohexyl spiroheptyl spirooctyl and spirononyl. The term Ccycloalkyl means a radical of a three to six membered ring system which includes the groups cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl bicyclopentyl bicyclohexyl spiropentyl and spirohexyl. The term Ccycloalkoxy refers to a three to six membered cycloalkyl group attached to an oxygen radical. Examples include cyclopropoxy cyclobutoxy cyclopentoxy and cyclohexoxy.

In some instances the number of atoms in a cyclic substituent containing one or more heteroatoms i.e. heteroaryl or heterocycloalkyl is indicated by the prefix x to y membered wherein x is the minimum and y is the maximum number of atoms forming the cyclic moiety of the substituent. Thus for example 4 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl refers to a heterocycloalkyl containing from 4 to 6 atoms including one to three heteroatoms in the cyclic moiety of the heterocycloalkyl. Likewise the phrase 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl refers to a heteroaryl containing from 5 to 6 atoms and 5 to 10 membered heteroaryl refers to a heteroaryl containing from 5 to 10 atoms each including one or more heteroatoms in the cyclic moiety of the heteroaryl. Furthermore the phases 5 membered heteroaryl and 6 membered heteroaryl refer to a five membered heteroaromatic ring system and a six membered heteroaromatic ring system respectively. The heteroatoms present in these ring systems are selected from N O and S.

The term hydroxy or hydroxyl refers to OH. When used in combination with another term s the prefix hydroxy indicates that the substituent to which the prefix is attached is substituted with one or more hydroxy substituents. Compounds bearing a carbon to which one or more hydroxy substituents include for example alcohols enols and phenol.

The term halo or halogen refers to fluorine which may be depicted as F chlorine which may be depicted as Cl bromine which may be depicted as Br or iodine which may be depicted as I .

The term heterocycloalkyl refers to a substituent obtained by removing a hydrogen from a saturated or partially saturated ring structure containing a total of the specified number of atoms such as 4 to 6 ring atoms wherein at least one of the ring atoms is a heteroatom i.e. oxygen nitrogen or sulfur with the remaining ring atoms being independently selected from the group consisting of carbon oxygen nitrogen and sulfur. In a group that has a heterocycloalkyl substituent the ring atom of the heterocycloalkyl substituent that is bound to the group may be a nitrogen heteroatom or it may be a ring carbon atom. Similarly if the heterocycloalkyl substituent is in turn substituted with a group or substituent the group or substituent may be bound to a nitrogen heteroatom or it may be bound to a ring carbon atom.

The term heteroaryl refers to an aromatic ring structure containing the specified number of ring atoms in which at least one of the ring atoms is a heteroatom i.e. oxygen nitrogen or sulfur with the remaining ring atoms being independently selected from the group consisting of carbon oxygen nitrogen and sulfur. Examples of heteroaryl substituents include 6 membered heteroaryl substituents such as pyridyl pyrazyl pyrimidinyl and pyridazinyl and 5 membered heteroaryl substituents such as triazolyl imidazolyl furanyl thiophenyl pyrazolyl pyrrolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl 1 2 3 1 2 4 1 2 5 or 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl and isothiazolyl. The heteroaryl group can also be a bicyclic heteroaromatic group such as indolyl benzofuranyl benzothienyl benzimidazolyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl benzoisoxazolyl oxazolopyridinyl imidazopyridinyl imidazopyrimidinyl and the like. In a group that has a heteroaryl substituent the ring atom of the heteroaryl substituent that is bound to the group may be one of the heteroatoms or it may be a ring carbon atom. Similarly if the heteroaryl substituent is in turn substituted with a group or substituent the group or substituent may be bound to one of the heteroatoms or it may be bound to a ring carbon atom. The term heteroaryl also includes pyridyl N oxides and groups containing a pyridine N oxide ring. In addition the heteroaryl group may contain an oxo group such as the one present in a pyridone group. Further examples include furyl thienyl oxazolyl thiazolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl isoxazolyl isothiazolyl oxadiazolyl thiadiazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl pyridin 2 1H onyl pyridazin 2 1H onyl pyrimidin 2 1H onyl pyrazin 2 1H onyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl and pyrazolo 1 5 a pyridinyl. The heteroaryl can be further substituted as defined herein.

Examples of single ring heteroaryls and heterocycloalkyls include furanyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrofuranyl thiophenyl dihydrothiophenyl tetrahydrothiophenyl pyrrolyl isopyrrolyl pyrrolinyl pyrrolidinyl imidazolyl isoimidazolyl imidazolinyl imidazolidinyl pyrazolyl pyrazolinyl pyrazolidinyl triazolyl tetrazolyl dithiolyl oxathiolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl thiazolinyl isothiazolinyl thiazolidinyl isothiazolidinyl thiaoxadiazolyl oxathiazolyl oxadiazolyl including oxadiazolyl 1 2 4 oxadiazolyl 1 2 5 oxadiazolyl or 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl pyranyl including 1 2 pyranyl or 1 4 pyranyl dihydropyranyl pyridinyl piperidinyl diazinyl including pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl piperazinyl triazinyl including s triazinyl as triazinyl and v triazinyl oxazinyl including 2H 1 2 oxazinyl 6H 1 3 oxazinyl or 2H 1 4 oxazinyl isoxazinyl including o isoxazinyl or p isoxazinyl oxazolidinyl isoxazolidinyl oxathiazinyl including 1 2 5 oxathiazinyl or 1 2 6 oxathiazinyl oxadiazinyl including 2H 1 2 4 oxadiazinyl or 2H 1 2 5 oxadiazinyl morpholinyl.

The term heteroaryl can also include when specified ring systems having two rings wherein such rings may be fused and wherein one ring is aromatic and the other ring is not fully part of the conjugated aromatic system i.e. the heteroaromatic ring can be fused to a cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl ring . Non limiting examples of such ring systems include 5 6 7 8 tetrahydroisoquinolinyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro quinolinyl 6 7 dihydro 5H cyclopenta b pyridinyl 6 7 dihydro 5H cyclopenta c pyridinyl 1 4 5 6 tetrahydrocyclopenta c pyrazolyl 2 4 5 6 tetrahydrocyclopenta c pyrazolyl 5 6 dihydro 4H pyrrolo 1 2 b pyrazolyl 6 7 dihydro 5H pyrrolo 1 2 b 1 2 4 triazolyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridinyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydropyrazolo 1 5 a pyridinyl 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 1H indazolyl and 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro 2H indazolyl. It is to be understood that if a carbocyclic or heterocyclic moiety may be bonded or otherwise attached to a designated substrate through differing ring atoms without denoting a specific point of attachment then all possible points are intended whether through a carbon atom or for example a trivalent nitrogen atom. For example the term pyridyl means 2 3 or 4 pyridyl the term thienyl means 2 or 3 thienyl and so forth.

If substituents are described as independently having more than one variable each instance of a substituent is selected independent of the other s from the list of variables available. Each substituent therefore may be identical to or different from the other substituent s .

If substituents are described as being independently selected from a group each instance of a substituent is selected independent of the other s . Each substituent therefore may be identical to or different from the other substituent s .

As used herein the term Formula I may be hereinafter referred to as a compound s of the invention the present invention and compound of Formula I. Such terms are also defined to include all forms of the compound of Formula I including hydrates solvates isomers crystalline and non crystalline forms isomorphs polymorphs and metabolites thereof. For example the compounds of the invention or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof may exist in unsolvated and solvated forms. When the solvent or water is tightly bound the complex will have a well defined stoichiometry independent of humidity. When however the solvent or water is weakly bound as in channel solvates and hygroscopic compounds the water solvent content will be dependent on humidity and drying conditions. In such cases non stoichiometry will be the norm.

The compounds of the invention may exist as clathrates or other complexes. Included within the scope of the invention are complexes such as clathrates drug host inclusion complexes wherein the drug and host are present in stoichiometric or non stoichiometric amounts. Also included are complexes of the compounds of the invention containing two or more organic and or inorganic components which may be in stoichiometric or non stoichiometric amounts. The resulting complexes may be ionized partially ionized or non ionized. For a review of such complexes see J. Pharm. Sci. 64 8 1269 1288 by Haleblian August 1975 .

The compounds of the invention have asymmetric carbon atoms. The carbon carbon bonds of the compounds of the invention may be depicted herein using a solid line a solid wedge or a dotted wedge The use of a solid line to depict bonds to asymmetric carbon atoms is meant to indicate that all possible stereoisomers e.g. specific enantiomers racemic mixtures etc. at that carbon atom are included. The use of either a solid or dotted wedge to depict bonds to asymmetric carbon atoms is meant to indicate that only the stereoisomer shown is meant to be included. It is possible that compounds of Formula I may contain more than one asymmetric carbon atom. In those compounds the use of a solid line to depict bonds to asymmetric carbon atoms is meant to indicate that all possible stereoisomers are meant to be included. For example unless stated otherwise it is intended that the compounds of Formula I can exist as enantiomers and diastereomers or as racemates and mixtures thereof. The use of a solid line to depict bonds to one or more asymmetric carbon atoms in a compound of Formula I and the use of a solid or dotted wedge to depict bonds to other asymmetric carbon atoms in the same compound is meant to indicate that a mixture of diastereomers is present.

Stereoisomers of Formula I include cis and trans isomers optical isomers such as R and S enantiomers diastereomers geometric isomers rotational isomers conformational isomers and tautomers of the compounds of the invention including compounds exhibiting more than one type of isomerism and mixtures thereof such as racemates and diastereomeric pairs . Also included are acid addition or base addition salts wherein the counterion is optically active for example D lactate or L lysine or racemic for example DL tartrate or DL arginine.

When any racemate crystallizes crystals of two different types are possible. The first type is the racemic compound true racemate referred to above wherein one homogeneous form of crystal is produced containing both enantiomers in equimolar amounts. The second type is the racemic mixture or conglomerate wherein two forms of crystal are produced in equimolar amounts each comprising a single enantiomer.

The compounds of Formula I may exhibit the phenomenon of tautomerism such tautomers are also regarded as compounds of the invention. For example the compounds of Formula I may exist in several tautomeric forms including the 2 amino dihydrothiazine form I and the 2 imino tetrahydrothiazine form Ia. All such tautomeric forms and mixtures thereof are included within the scope of compounds of Formula I. Tautomers exist as mixtures of a tautomeric set in solution. In solid form usually one tautomer predominates. Even though one tautomer may be described the present invention includes all tautomers of the compounds of Formula I and salts thereof. Examples of tautomers are described by the compounds of Formula I and Ia and collectively and generically are referred to as compounds of Formula I.

The compounds of this invention may be used in the form of salts derived from inorganic or organic acids. Depending on the particular compound a salt of the compound may be advantageous due to one or more of the salt s physical properties such as enhanced pharmaceutical stability in differing temperatures and humidities or a desirable solubility in water or oil. In some instances a salt of a compound also may be used as an aid in the isolation purification and or resolution of the compound.

Where a salt is intended to be administered to a patient as opposed to for example being used in an in vitro context the salt preferably is pharmaceutically acceptable. The term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to a salt prepared by combining a compound of Formula I with an acid whose anion or a base whose cation is generally considered suitable for human consumption. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts are particularly useful as products of the methods of the present invention because of their greater aqueous solubility relative to the parent compound. For use in medicine the salts of the compounds of this invention are non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable salts. Salts encompassed within the term pharmaceutically acceptable salts refer to non toxic salts of the compounds of this invention which are generally prepared by reacting the free base with a suitable organic or inorganic acid.

Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of the compounds of the present invention when possible include those derived from inorganic acids such as hydrochloric hydrobromic hydrofluoric boric fluoroboric phosphoric metaphosphoric nitric carbonic sulfonic and sulfuric acids and organic acids such as acetic benzenesulfonic benzoic citric ethanesulfonic fumaric gluconic glycolic isothionic lactic lactobionic maleic malic methanesulfonic trifluoromethanesulfonic succinic toluenesulfonic tartaric and trifluoroacetic acids. Suitable organic acids generally include for example aliphatic cycloaliphatic aromatic araliphatic heterocyclic carboxylic and sulfonic classes of organic acids.

Specific examples of suitable organic acids include acetate trifluoroacetate formate propionate succinate glycolate gluconate digluconate lactate malate tartaric acid citrate ascorbate glucuronate maleate fumarate pyruvate aspartate glutamate benzoate anthranilate stearate salicylate p hydroxybenzoate phenylacetate mandelate embonate pamoate methanesulfonate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate pantothenate toluenesulfonate 2 hydroxyethanesulfonate sufanilate cyclohexylaminosulfonate algenic acid hydroxybutyric acid galactarate galacturonate adipate alginate butyrate camphorate camphorsulfonate cyclopentanepropionate dodecylsulfate glycoheptanoate glycerophosphate heptanoate hexanoate nicotinate 2 naphthalesulfonate oxalate palmoate pectinate 3 phenylpropionate picrate pivalate thiocyanate and undecanoate.

Furthermore where the compounds of the invention carry an acidic moiety suitable pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof may include the lighter alkali metal salts i.e. sodium or potassium salts alkaline earth metal salts e.g. calcium or magnesium salts and salts formed with suitable organic ligands e.g. quaternary ammonium salts. In another embodiment base salts are formed from bases which form non toxic salts including aluminum arginine benzathine choline diethylamine diolamine glycine lysine meglumine olamine tromethamine and zinc salts.

Organic salts may be made from secondary tertiary or quaternary amine salts such as tromethamine diethylamine N N dibenzylethylenediamine chloroprocaine choline diethanolamine ethylenediamine meglumine N methylglucamine and procaine. Basic nitrogen containing groups may be quaternized with agents such as lower alkyl C C halides e.g. methyl ethyl propyl and butyl chlorides bromides and iodides dialkyl sulfates e.g. dimethyl diethyl dibutyl and diamyl sulfates long chain halides e.g. decyl lauryl myristyl and stearyl chlorides bromides and iodides arylalkyl halides e.g. benzyl and phenethyl bromides and others.

In one embodiment hemisalts of acids and bases may also be formed for example hem isulfate and hem icalcium salts.

Also within the scope of the present invention are so called prodrugs of the compound of the invention. Thus certain derivatives of the compound of the invention which may have little or no pharmacological activity themselves can when administered into or onto the body be converted into the compound of the invention having the desired activity for example by hydrolytic cleavage. Such derivatives are referred to as prodrugs. Further information on the use of prodrugs may be found in Pro drugs as Novel Delivery Systems Vol. 14 ACS Symposium Series T. Higuchi and V. Stella and Bioreversible Carriers in Drug Design Pergamon Press 1987 ed. E. B. Roche American Pharmaceutical Association . Prodrugs in accordance with the invention can for example be produced by replacing appropriate functionalities present in the compounds of any of Formula I with certain moieties known to those skilled in the art as pro moieties as described for example in Design of Prodrugs by H. Bundgaard Elsevier 1985 .

The present invention also includes isotopically labeled compounds which are identical to those recited in Formula I but for the fact that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number usually found in nature. Examples of isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the present invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen sulfur fluorine and chlorine such as H H C C C N O O P S F and Cl respectively. Compounds of the present invention prodrugs thereof and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of said compounds or of said prodrugs that contain the aforementioned isotopes and or other isotopes of other atoms are within the scope of this invention. Certain isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention for example those into which radioactive isotopes such as H and C are incorporated are useful in drug and or substrate tissue distribution assays. Tritiated i.e. H and carbon 14 i.e. C isotopes are particularly preferred for their ease of preparation and detectability. Further substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium i.e. H can afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability for example increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements and hence may be preferred in some circumstances. Isotopically labeled compounds of Formula I of this invention and prodrugs thereof can generally be prepared by carrying out the procedures disclosed in the Schemes and or in the Examples and Preparations below by substituting a readily available isotopically labeled reagent for a non isotopically labeled reagent.

A third embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the second embodiment of the first aspect wherein Ris a 5 membered heteroaryl selected from the group consisting of pyrazolyl imidazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl oxadiazolyl and triazolyl each optionally substituted on carbon with one to two R and wherein said pyrazolyl imidazolyl and triazolyl are substituted on N with R Rat each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halogen Calkyl Ccycloalkyl and Calkoxy Calkyl wherein said Calkyl is optionally substituted with one to three fluoro and Ris Calkyl or Ccycloalkyl wherein said Calkyl is optionally substituted with one to three fluoro or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A fourth embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the third embodiment of the first aspect wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of

A fifth embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the fourth embodiment of the first aspect wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of

A sixth embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the fourth embodiment of the first aspect wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of

A seventh embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the fourth embodiment of the first aspect wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of

An eighth embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the fourth embodiment of the first aspect wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of

A ninth embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the fourth embodiment of the first aspect wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of

A tenth embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the second embodiment of the first aspect wherein Ris a 6 membered heteroaryl selected from the group consisting of pyridinyl pyridonyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl and pyrazinyl each optionally substituted on carbon with one to two R and wherein said pyridonyl is substituted on N with R Rat each occurrence is independently selected from the group consisting of halogen hydroxy cyano Calkyl Calkoxy Calkoxy Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkynyloxy 4 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl and 4 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl wherein said Calkyl Calkoxy Calkoxy Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkynyloxy 4 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl and 4 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl Calkyl are optionally substituted with one to three fluoro or hydroxy and Ris Calkyl or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

An eleventh embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the tenth embodiment of the first aspect wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of

A twelfth embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the eleventh embodiment of the first aspect wherein Ris

An thirteenth embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the eleventh embodiment of the first aspect wherein

A fourteenth embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the second embodiment of the first aspect wherein Ris phenyl optionally substituted with one to two R or Ccycloalkyl optionally substituted with one to two R or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A fifteenth embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the second embodiment of the first aspect selected from the group consisting of 

A sixteenth embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the second embodiment of the first aspect selected from the group consisting of 

A seventeenth embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the second embodiment of the first aspect selected from the group consisting of 

An eighteenth embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the second embodiment of the first aspect selected from the group consisting of 

A nineteenth embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the second embodiment of the first aspect selected from the group consisting of 

A twentieth embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the second embodiment of the first aspect selected from the group consisting of 

A twenty first embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound of the first embodiment of the first aspect selected from the group consisting of 

A twenty second embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound N 2 4aR 6S 8aR 2 Amino 6 methyl 4 4a 5 6 tetrahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 8a 8H yl 1 3 thiazol 4 yl 5 difluoromethoxy pyridine 2 carboxamide or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer. A twenty third embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound N 2 4aR 6S 8aR 2 Amino 6 methyl 4 4a 5 6 tetrahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 8a 8H yl 1 3 thiazol 4 yl 5 difluoromethoxy pyrazine 2 carboxamide or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer. A twenty fourth embodiment of the first of the present invention is the compound N 2 4aR 6S 8aR 2 Amino 6 methyl 4 4a 5 6 tetrahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 8a 8H yl 1 3 thiazol 4 yl 5 chloropyridine 2 carboxamide or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer. A twenty fifth embodiment of the first aspect of the present invention is the compound N 2 4aR 6S 8aR 2 amino 6 methyl 4 4a 5 6 tetrahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 8a 8H yl 1 3 thiazol 4 yl 5 fluoropyridine 2 carboxamide or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer. A twenty sixth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound N 2 4aR 6S 8aR 2 amino 6 methyl 4 4a 5 6 tetrahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 8a 8H yl 1 3 thiazol 4 yl 5 difluoromethoxy 3 methylpyridine 2 carboxamide or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer. A twenty seventh embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound N 2 4aR 6S 8aR 2 amino 6 methyl 4 4a 5 6 tetrahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 8a 8H yl 1 3 thiazol 4 yl 5 difluoromethoxy 3 methylpyrazine 2 carboxamide or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer. A twenty eighth embodiment of a first aspect of the present invention is the compound N 2 4aR 6S 8aR 2 amino 6 methyl 4 4a 5 6 tetrahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 8a 8H yl 1 3 thiazol 4 yl 3 chloro 5 difluoromethoxy pyridine 2 carboxamide or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer.

A first embodiment of a second aspect of the present invention is a pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of any one of the first to twenty eighth embodiments of the first aspect of the present invention or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer and a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle diluent or carrier.

Further embodiments of the present invention include methods of treatment employing the compounds of the present invention.

A first embodiment of a third aspect of the present invention is a method of inhibiting production of amyloid protein in a patient the method comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound according to any one of the first through twenty eighth embodiments of the first aspect of the present invention or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer to a patient in need of inhibition of production of amyloid protein.

A second embodiment of a third aspect of the present invention is a method of inhibiting beta site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 BACE1 in a patient the method comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound according to any one of the first through twenty eighth embodiments of the first aspect of the present invention or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer to a patient in need of inhibition of beta site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 BACE1 .

A third embodiment of a third aspect of the present invention is a method for treating a neurodegenerative disease in a patient the method comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound according to any one of the first through twenty eighth embodiments of the first aspect of the present invention or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer to a patient in need of treatment thereof.

A fourth embodiment of a third aspect of the present invention is the method of the third embodiment of the third aspect wherein the neurodegenerative disease is Alzheimer s Disease.

A fifth embodiment of a third aspect of the present invention is a method of treating or preventing diabetes in a patient the method comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound according to any one of first through twenty eighth embodiments of the first aspect of the present invention or a tautomer thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of said compound or tautomer to a patient in need of treatment or prevention thereof.

A sixth embodiment of a third aspect of the present invention is the method of the fifth embodiment of the third aspect wherein the diabetes is Type 2 diabetes.

Further embodiments of the present invention include the use of a compound according to any one of first through twenty eighth embodiments of the first aspect of the present invention in the preparation of a medicament useful for treating the conditions diseases and disorders as described herein.

Typically a compound of the invention is administered in an amount effective to treat a condition as described herein. The compounds of the invention are administered by any suitable route in the form of a pharmaceutical composition adapted to such a route and in a dose effective for the treatment intended. Therapeutically effective doses of the compounds required to treat the progress of the medical condition are readily ascertained by one of ordinary skill in the art using preclinical and clinical approaches familiar to the medicinal arts.

The compounds of the invention may be administered orally. Oral administration may involve swallowing so that the compound enters the gastrointestinal tract or buccal or sublingual administration may be employed by which the compound enters the blood stream directly from the mouth.

In another embodiment the compounds of the invention may also be administered directly into the blood stream into muscle or into an internal organ. Suitable means for parenteral administration include intravenous intraarterial intraperitoneal intrathecal intraventricular intraurethral intrasternal intracranial intramuscular and subcutaneous. Suitable devices for parenteral administration include needle including microneedle injectors needle free injectors and infusion techniques.

In another embodiment the compounds of the invention may also be administered topically to the skin or mucosa that is dermally or transdermally. In another embodiment the compounds of the invention can also be administered intranasally or by inhalation. In another embodiment the compounds of the invention may be administered rectally or vaginally. In another embodiment the compounds of the invention may also be administered directly to the eye or ear.

The dosage regimen for the compounds and or compositions containing the compounds is based on a variety of factors including the type age weight sex and medical condition of the patient the severity of the condition the route of administration and the activity of the particular compound employed. Thus the dosage regimen may vary widely. Dosage levels of the order from about 0.01 mg to about 100 mg per kilogram of body weight per day are useful in the treatment of the above indicated conditions. In one embodiment the total daily dose of a compound of the invention administered in single or divided doses is typically from about 0.01 to about 100 mg kg. In another embodiment total daily dose of the compound of the invention is from about 0.1 to about 50 mg kg and in another embodiment from about 0.5 to about 30 mg kg i.e. mg compound of the invention per kg body weight . In one embodiment dosing is from 0.01 to 10 mg kg day. In another embodiment dosing is from 0.1 to 1.0 mg kg day. Dosage unit compositions may contain such amounts or submultiples thereof to make up the daily dose. In many instances the administration of the compound will be repeated a plurality of times in a day typically no greater than 4 times . Multiple doses per day typically may be used to increase the total daily dose if desired.

For oral administration the compositions may be provided in the form of tablets containing from about 0.01 mg to about 500 mg of the active ingredient or in another embodiment from about 1 mg to about 100 mg of active ingredient. Intravenously doses may range from about 0.1 to about 10 mg kg minute during a constant rate infusion.

Suitable subjects according to the present invention include mammalian subjects. Mammals according to the present invention include but are not limited to canine feline bovine caprine equine ovine porcine rodents lagomorphs primates and the like and encompass mammals in utero. In one embodiment humans are suitable subjects. Human subjects may be of either gender and at any stage of development.

In another embodiment the invention comprises the use of one or more compounds of the invention for the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of the conditions recited herein.

For the treatment of the conditions referred to above the compound of the invention can be administered as compound per se. Alternatively pharmaceutically acceptable salts are suitable for medical applications because of their greater aqueous solubility relative to the parent compound.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises pharmaceutical compositions. Such pharmaceutical compositions comprise a compound of the invention presented with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The carrier can be a solid a liquid or both and may be formulated with the compound as a unit dose composition for example a tablet which can contain from 0.05 to 95 by weight of the active compounds. A compound of the invention may be coupled with suitable polymers as targetable drug carriers. Other pharmacologically active substances can also be present.

The compounds of the present invention may be administered by any suitable route preferably in the form of a pharmaceutical composition adapted to such a route and in a dose effective for the treatment intended. The active compounds and compositions for example may be administered orally rectally parenterally or topically.

Oral administration of a solid dose form may be for example presented in discrete units such as hard or soft capsules pills cachets lozenges or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of at least one compound of the present invention. In another embodiment the oral administration may be in a powder or granule form. In another embodiment the oral dose form is sub lingual such as for example a lozenge. In such solid dosage forms the compounds of Formula I are ordinarily combined with one or more adjuvants. Such capsules or tablets may contain a controlled release formulation. In the case of capsules tablets and pills the dosage forms also may comprise buffering agents or may be prepared with enteric coatings.

In another embodiment oral administration may be in a liquid dose form. Liquid dosage forms for oral administration include for example pharmaceutically acceptable emulsions solutions suspensions syrups and elixirs containing inert diluents commonly used in the art e.g. water . Such compositions also may comprise adjuvants such as wetting emulsifying suspending flavoring e.g. sweetening and or perfuming agents.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a parenteral dose form. Parenteral administration includes for example subcutaneous injections intravenous injections intraperitoneal injections intramuscular injections intrasternal injections and infusion. Injectable preparations e.g. sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspensions may be formulated according to the known art using suitable dispersing wetting agents and or suspending agents.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a topical dose form. Topical administration includes for example transdermal administration such as via transdermal patches or iontophoresis devices intraocular administration or intranasal or inhalation administration. Compositions for topical administration also include for example topical gels sprays ointments and creams. A topical formulation may include a compound which enhances absorption or penetration of the active ingredient through the skin or other affected areas. When the compounds of this invention are administered by a transdermal device administration will be accomplished using a patch either of the reservoir and porous membrane type or of a solid matrix variety. Typical formulations for this purpose include gels hydrogels lotions solutions creams ointments dusting powders dressings foams films skin patches wafers implants sponges fibres bandages and microemulsions. Liposomes may also be used. Typical carriers include alcohol water mineral oil liquid petrolatum white petrolatum glycerin polyethylene glycol and propylene glycol. Penetration enhancers may be incorporated see for example J. Pharm. Sci. 88 10 955 958 by Finnin and Morgan October 1999 .

Formulations suitable for topical administration to the eye include for example eye drops wherein the compound of this invention is dissolved or suspended in a suitable carrier. A typical formulation suitable for ocular or aural administration may be in the form of drops of a micronized suspension or solution in isotonic pH adjusted sterile saline. Other formulations suitable for ocular and aural administration include ointments biodegradable e.g. absorbable gel sponges collagen and non biodegradable e.g. silicone implants wafers lenses and particulate or vesicular systems such as niosomes or liposomes. A polymer such as cross linked polyacrylic acid polyvinyl alcohol hyaluronic acid a cellulosic polymer for example hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose hydroxyethyl cellulose or methyl cellulose or a heteropolysaccharide polymer for example gelan gum may be incorporated together with a preservative such as benzalkonium chloride. Such formulations may also be delivered by iontophoresis.

For intranasal administration or administration by inhalation the active compounds of the invention are conveniently delivered in the form of a solution or suspension from a pump spray container that is squeezed or pumped by the patient or as an aerosol spray presentation from a pressurized container or a nebulizer with the use of a suitable propellant. Formulations suitable for intranasal administration are typically administered in the form of a dry powder either alone as a mixture for example in a dry blend with lactose or as a mixed component particle for example mixed with phospholipids such as phosphatidylcholine from a dry powder inhaler or as an aerosol spray from a pressurized container pump spray atomizer preferably an atomizer using electrohydrodynamics to produce a fine mist or nebulizer with or without the use of a suitable propellant such as 1 1 1 2 tetrafluoroethane or 1 1 1 2 3 3 3 heptafluoropropane. For intranasal use the powder may comprise a bioadhesive agent for example chitosan or cyclodextrin.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a rectal dose form. Such rectal dose form may be in the form of for example a suppository. Cocoa butter is a traditional suppository base but various alternatives may be used as appropriate.

Other carrier materials and modes of administration known in the pharmaceutical art may also be used. Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may be prepared by any of the well known techniques of pharmacy such as effective formulation and administration procedures. The above considerations in regard to effective formulations and administration procedures are well known in the art and are described in standard textbooks. Formulation of drugs is discussed in for example Hoover John E. Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. 1975 Liberman et al. Eds. Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms Marcel Decker New York N.Y. 1980 and Kibbe et al. Eds. Handbook of Pharmaceutical Excipients 3Ed. American Pharmaceutical Association Washington 1999.

The compounds of the present invention can be used alone or in combination with other therapeutic agents in the treatment of various conditions or disease states. The compound s of the present invention and other therapeutic agent s may be may be administered simultaneously either in the same dosage form or in separate dosage forms or sequentially.

Two or more compounds may be administered simultaneously concurrently or sequentially. Additionally simultaneous administration may be carried out by mixing the compounds prior to administration or by administering the compounds at the same point in time but at different anatomic sites or using different routes of administration.

The phrases concurrent administration co administration simultaneous administration and administered simultaneously mean that the compounds are administered in combination.

The present invention includes the use of a combination of a BACE inhibitor compound as provided in Formula I and one or more additional pharmaceutically active agent s . If a combination of active agents is administered then they may be administered sequentially or simultaneously in separate dosage forms or combined in a single dosage form. Accordingly the present invention also includes pharmaceutical compositions comprising an amount of a a first agent comprising a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the compound b a second pharmaceutically active agent and c a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier vehicle or diluent.

The compounds of this invention may also be used in conjunction with other pharmaceutical agents for the treatment of the diseases conditions and or disorders described herein. Therefore methods of treatment that include administering compounds of the present invention in combination with other pharmaceutical agents are also provided. Suitable pharmaceutical agents that may be used in combination with the compounds of the present invention include without limitation 

The present invention further comprises kits that are suitable for use in performing the methods of treatment described above. In one embodiment the kit contains a first dosage form comprising one or more of the compounds of the present invention and a container for the dosage in quantities sufficient to carry out the methods of the present invention.

In another embodiment the kit of the present invention comprises one or more compounds of the invention.

The compounds of Formula I may be prepared by the methods described below together with synthetic methods known in the art of organic chemistry or modifications and transformations that are familiar to those of ordinary skill in the art. The starting materials used herein are commercially available or may be prepared by routine methods known in the art such as those methods disclosed in standard reference books such as the Vol. I XII published by Wiley Interscience . Preferred methods include but are not limited to those described below.

During any of the following synthetic sequences it may be necessary and or desirable to protect sensitive or reactive groups on any of the molecules concerned. This can be achieved by means of conventional protecting groups such as those described in T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry John Wiley Sons 1981 T. W. Greene and P. G. M. Wuts Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry John Wiley Sons 1991 and T. W. Greene and P. G. M. Wuts Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry John Wiley Sons 1999 which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Compounds of Formula I or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts can be prepared according to the reaction Schemes discussed herein below. Unless otherwise indicated the substituents in the Schemes are defined as above. Isolation and purification of the products is accomplished by standard procedures which are known to a chemist of ordinary skill.

It will be understood by one skilled in the art that the various symbols superscripts and subscripts used in the schemes methods and examples are used for convenience of representation and or to reflect the order in which they are introduced in the schemes and are not intended to necessarily correspond to the symbols superscripts or subscripts in the appended claims. Additionally one skilled in the art will recognize that in many cases these compounds will be mixtures and enantiomers that may be separated at various stages of the synthetic schemes using conventional techniques such as but not limited to crystallization normal phase chromatography reversed phase chromatography and chiral chromatography to afford single enantiomers. The schemes are representative of methods useful in synthesizing the compounds of the present invention. They are not to constrain the scope of the invention in any way.

Scheme 1 refers to the preparation of compounds of Formula I. Referring to Scheme 1 the compound of Formula III can be prepared from the compound of Formula II via a standard peptide coupling with a carboxylic acid and a suitable coupling reagent for example but not limited to O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate HATU . A compound of Formula I can be prepared through removal of protecting group P. Pin this case refers to groups well known to those skilled in the art for amine protection. For example Pmay be a benzoyl group Bz which can be cleaved via basic conditions including but not limited to treatment with methoxylamine hydrochloride and pyridine in ethanol. Alternatively Pmay be one of many other protecting group suitable for amines including 9 fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl Fmoc or tert butoxycarbonyl BOC and can be cleaved under standard conditions known to one skilled in the art.

Scheme 2 refers to the preparation of compounds II wherein Pis Bz or Boc. Oxazolines of Formula IV are transformed to oxazolidines of Formula V via the addition of an appropriately metallated 2 4 dibromo 1 3 thiazole generated for example through treatment with n butyllithium and boron trifluoride dietherate. Aminoalcohols of Formula VI are prepared through the reduction of compound V with a reducing agent such as but not limited to molybdenum hexacarbonyl and sodium borohydride. Compounds of Formula VIII are then prepared via the treatment with the appropriate isothiocyanate such as benzyl isothiocyanate and subsequent ring closure using 1 Chloro N N 2 trimethylprop 1 en 1 amine Ghosez s reagent . Conversion of the bromothiazole to the corresponding amine can be effected via a transitional metal catalyzed coupling reaction such as the palladium mediated amination. An example includes using a protected ammonia source such as but not limited to 1 2 4 dimethoxyphenyl methanamine and a suitable catalyst and ligand choice for example tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 and di tert butyl 2 4 6 tri propan 2 yl biphenyl 2 yl phosphane. Alternatively one can utilize a copper mediated azide coupling method. One skilled in the art will recognize that the requisite protected ammonia source will need to be deprotected to afford compounds of Formula II. In the example utilizing 1 2 4 dimethoxyphenyl methanamine said deprotection can be effected via acidic hydrolysis such as treatment with concentrated hydrochloric acid. Compound II can be converted into a compound of Formula I according to the methods of Scheme 1.

Scheme 3 refers to the preparation of compounds IV. The alkylation of compounds of Formula IX is effected using 2 bromo 1 1 diethoxyethane and sodium hydride in tetrahydrofuran. Deprotection of the diethylacetal of compounds of Formula X occurs using acidic conditions and subsequent oxime formation occurs via treatment with hydroxylamine hydrochloride to afford compounds of Formula XI. Treatment with sodium hypochlorite and triethylamine affords isoxazoline IV. A compound of Formula IV can be converted into a compound of Formula I according to the methods of Schemes 2 and 1.

The following illustrate the synthesis of various compounds of the present invention. Additional compounds within the scope of this invention may be prepared using the methods illustrated in these Examples either alone or in combination with techniques generally known in the art.

Experiments were generally carried out under inert atmosphere nitrogen or argon particularly in cases where oxygen or moisture sensitive reagents or intermediates were employed. Commercial solvents and reagents were generally used without further purification. Anhydrous solvents were employed where appropriate generally AcroSeal products from Acros Organics or DriSolv products from EMD Chemicals. Products were generally dried under vacuum before being carried on to further reactions or submitted for biological testing. Mass spectrometry data is reported from either liquid chromatography mass spectrometry LCMS atmospheric pressure chemical ionization APCI or gas chromatography mass spectrometry GCMS instrumentation. Chemical shifts for nuclear magnetic resonance NMR data are expressed in parts per million ppm referenced to residual peaks from the deuterated solvents employed. Where applicable in the examples chiral separations can be carried out to separate enantiomers of certain compounds of the invention in such examples where applicable the separated enantiomers can be designated as ENT 1 and ENT 2 according to their order of elution . In some examples the optical rotation of an enantiomer can be measured using a polarimeter. According to its observed rotation data or its specific rotation data an enantiomer with a clockwise rotation is designated as the enantiomer and an enantiomer with a counter clockwise rotation is designated as the enantiomer.

Reactions proceeding through detectable intermediates were generally followed by LCMS and allowed to proceed to full conversion prior to addition of subsequent reagents. For syntheses referencing procedures in other Examples or Methods reaction conditions reaction time and temperature may vary. In general reactions were followed by thin layer chromatography or mass spectrometry and subjected to work up when appropriate. Purifications may vary between experiments in general solvents and the solvent ratios used for eluents gradients were chosen to provide appropriate Rs or retention times.

To a suspension of sodium hydride 60 in mineral oil 13.9 g 0.348 mol in tetrahydrofuran 350 mL was added a solution of S pent 4 en 2 ol 10.0 g 0.116 mol in tetrahydrofuran 50 mL at 0 C. The reaction was warmed to room temperature and stirred for 30 minutes whereupon 2 bromo 1 1 diethoxyethane 68.6 g 0.348 mol was added and the reaction mixture was heated to reflux for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was then cooled to 0 C. quenched with water 50 mL and partitioned between ethyl acetate 300 mL and water 200 mL . The organic layer was washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 2 100 mL dried and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Eluent 30 1 petroleum ether ethyl acetate provided the product as a yellow oil. Yield 17.4 g 86.0 mmol 74 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 5.76 5.85 m 1H 5.02 5.09 m 2H 4.58 4.60 m 1H 3.66 3.74 m 2H 3.43 3.61 m 5H 2.29 2.36 m 1H 2.13 2.20 m 1H 1.21 t J 7.2 Hz 6H 1.14 d J 6.4 Hz 3H .

To a solution of C1 17.4 g 86.0 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 100 mL was added aqueous hydrochloric acid 2 M 51.0 mL 0.102 mol and the reaction mixture was heated to 75 C. for 1 hour. After removal of solvent in vacuo ethanol 100 mL and water 20 mL were added followed by sodium acetate 35.17 g 0.429 mol and hydroxylamine hydrochloride 17.9 g 0.257 mol . The reaction mixture was stirred at 60 C. for 18 hours whereupon it was concentrated in vacuo the residue was then partitioned between water and dichloromethane. The aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 3 200 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Silica gel chromatography Eluent 10 1 petroleum ether ethyl acetate provided the product as a yellow oil which was used without further purification in the subsequent step. Yield 8.6 g 60 mmol 70 .

To a solution of C2 8.6 g 60 mmol and triethylamine 0.455 g 4.50 mmol in dichloromethane 150 mL at room temperature was slowly added an aqueous solution of sodium hypochlorite 6 90 mL at a rate that maintained the internal reaction temperature between 20 C. and 25 C. After completion of the addition the organic layer was dried filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Eluent 10 1 petroleum ether ethyl acetate provided the product as a yellow oil. Yield 5.70 g 40.4 mmol 67 . LCMS m z 142.1 M H H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 4.68 d J 13.2 Hz 1H 4.59 dd J 10 8 Hz 1H 4.18 d J 13.2 Hz 1H 3.76 dd J 12 8 Hz 1H 3.59 3.66 m 1H 3.39 3.50 m 1H 2.14 2.19 m 1H . 1.42 1.51 m 1H 1.25 d J 6 Hz 3H .

2 4 Dibromo 1 3 thiazole 44.7 g 184 mmol was dissolved in a mixture of toluene and tetrahydrofuran 10 1 900 mL and cooled to 78 C. To this solution was added boron trifluoride diethyl etherate 21.9 mL 177 mmol followed by drop wise addition of n butyllithium 2.5 M solution in hexanes 68.0 mL 170 mmol and the reaction mixture was stirred for 30 minutes. A solution of P1 20 g 140 mmol in a mixture of toluene and tetrahydrofuran 10 1 22 mL was then added drop wise the reaction temperature was maintained below 72 C. during the course of both additions. Stirring was continued for 1 hour at 78 C. whereupon the reaction was quenched via addition of saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution. The aqueous layer was extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic layers were washed with water and with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a tacky amber oil. Yield 36.34 g 119.1 mmol 85 . LCMS m z 305.0 307.0 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.22 s 1H 3.97 AB quartet upfield doublet is broadened J 12.6 Hz 13.4 Hz 2H 3.67 3.76 m 3H 3.38 br ddd J 11.8 6.9 4.6 Hz 1H 1.90 ddd J 14.1 6.9 2.1 Hz 1H 1.42 ddd J 14.1 11.7 11.7 Hz 1H 1.27 d J 6.2 Hz 3H .

Molybdenum hexacarbonyl 98 6.67 g 24.8 mmol was added to a solution of C3 15.12 g 49.54 mmol in a mixture of acetonitrile 390 mL and water 20 mL and the reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 1 hour. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was chilled in an ice bath treated portion wise with sodium borohydride 7.50 g 198 mmol and allowed to stir at 0 C. for 1 hour. The mixture was then filtered through a pad of diatomaceous earth and the pad was washed three times with dichloromethane the organic portion of the combined filtrate and washes was washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Methanol was added to the residue then removed via concentration under reduced pressure. This methanol treatment was repeated and the resulting residue was dissolved in dichloromethane washed twice with 1 M aqueous sodium hydroxide solution washed once with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution and concentrated in vacuo affording the product as a brown solid. Yield 14.48 g 47.13 mmol 95 . LCMS m z 307.0 309.0 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.22 s 1H 3.79 d half of AB quartet J 11.5 Hz 1H 3.64 3.75 m 3H 3.54 dd half of ABX pattern J 11.5 4.1 Hz 1H 2.46 2.54 m 1H 1.82 1.94 m 1H 1.67 1.74 m 1H 1.32 d J 6.2 Hz 3H .

Benzoyl isothiocyanate 6.92 g 42.4 mmol was added in a drop wise manner to a solution of C4 14.48 g 47.13 mmol in dichloromethane 420 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 24 hours. Volatiles were removed in vacuo and the residue was purified via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 50 ethyl acetate in heptane providing the product as a yellow solid. Yield 14.7 g 31.2 mmol 66 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 11.70 br s 1H 8.93 br s 1H 7.86 7.90 m 2H 7.62 7.67 m 1H 7.51 7.56 m 2H 7.25 s 1H 5.47 d J 11.9 Hz 1H 3.91 d J 12.0 Hz 1H 3.83 d J 4.4 Hz 2H 3.74 3.81 m 1H 2.44 2.52 m 1H 1.80 1.87 m 2H 1.33 d J 6.2 Hz 3H .

1 Chloro N N 2 trimethylprop 1 en 1 amine Ghosez s reagent 7.85 mL 59.3 mmol was added drop wise to a solution of C5 9.30 g 19.8 mmol in dichloromethane 200 mL . After 1 hour at room temperature the reaction mixture was partitioned between dichloromethane and saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution. The organic layer was washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as a solid. Yield 6.90 g 15.2 mmol 77 . LCMS m z 452.1 454.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 13.69 br s 1H 8.38 8.43 m 2H 7.64 7.70 m 1H 7.54 7.60 m 2H 7.34 s 1H 4.45 d J 12.5 Hz 1H 3.93 d J 12.5 Hz 1H 3.74 3.83 m 1H 3.28 3.36 m 1H 3.23 dd J 13.5 4.0 Hz 1H 2.77 dd J 13.5 2.8 Hz 1H 1.66 1.82 m 2H 1.32 d J 6.2 Hz 3H .

Sodium tert butoxide 530 mg 5.51 mmol tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 102 mg 0.111 mmol and di tert butyl 2 4 6 tri propan 2 yl biphenyl 2 yl phosphane 141 mg 0.332 mmol were dissolved in degassed 1 4 dioxane 5 mL and the reaction flask was purged with nitrogen and heated to 65 C. for 3 minutes. To this was added a solution of 1 2 4 dimethoxyphenyl methanamine 0.564 mL 3.75 mmol and C6 1.00 g 2.21 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 5 mL and the reaction mixture was heated at 95 C. for 80 minutes. It was then allowed to cool to room temperature and treated with concentrated hydrochloric acid 10 mL whereupon it was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. Additional concentrated hydrochloric acid 10 mL was introduced and the reaction was monitored until starting material had been consumed. Water 50 mL was added and the mixture was washed with dichloromethane 3 50 mL . The aqueous layer was poured into a 1 1 mixture of aqueous sodium hydroxide 5 M 100 mL and ice and the pH was checked to ensure that it was 12. This mixture was saturated with solid sodium chloride and extracted with dichloromethane 4 100 mL the combined organic layers were dried over magnesium sulfate and filtered. As the initial dichloromethane washes 3 50 mL were found to contain additional material they were concentrated to a volume of approximately 50 mL and mixed with aqueous hydrochloric acid 5 M 50 mL . After being stirred at room temperature for 1 hour the aqueous layer was separated and washed with dichloromethane 3 50 mL . The aqueous layer was then poured into a 1 1 mixture of aqueous sodium hydroxide 5 M 75 mL and ice and the resulting mixture was saturated with solid sodium chloride and extracted with dichloromethane 3 60 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and added to the organic layers obtained above. This combined solution was concentrated to a volume of approximately 70 mL and washed with 5 aqueous citric acid solution dried over magnesium sulfate and filtered. The resulting filtrate was passed through a 0.45 m nylon Acrodisc to remove fine particulates and subsequently concentrated in vacuo affording the product as an orange solid. Yield 608 mg 1.56 mmol 71 . LCMS m z 389.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.10 8.19 br m 2H 7.49 7.55 m 1H 7.42 7.48 m 2H 5.94 s 1H 3.95 AB quartet J 12.1 Hz 6.2 Hz 2H 3.77 dqd J 11.2 6.1 2.3 Hz 1H 3.22 dd J 12.9 4.1 Hz 1H 2.97 3.05 m 1H 2.59 dd J 12.9 2.8 Hz 1H 1.83 1.95 m 1H 1.65 ddd J 13.7 4.3 2.4 Hz 1H 1.29 d J 6.2 Hz 3H .

2 4 Dibromo 1 3 thiazole 44.8 g 184 mmol was dissolved in a mixture of toluene 750 mL and tetrahydrofuran 75 mL in a flask equipped with a mechanical stirrer. The solution was cooled to 74 C. internal temperature and slowly treated with boron trifluoride diethyl etherate 22 mL 178 mmol followed by drop wise addition of n butyllithium 2.5 M solution in hexanes 68 mL 170 mmol at a rate such that the internal temperature of the reaction mixture did not exceed 70 C. After the additions had been completed the reaction mixture was allowed to stir at 73 C. internal temperature for 30 minutes. A solution of P1 20.0 g 142 mmol in a mixture of toluene 15 mL and tetrahydrofuran 1.5 mL was then added via cannula the temperature was monitored during the addition and it was observed that it increased by only 2 C. The flask that had contained P1 was washed with a mixture of toluene 11 mL and tetrahydrofuran 1.1 mL and this rinse was added to the reaction mixture via cannula. The reaction mixture was stirred at 74 C. internal temperature at approximately 500 600 rpm within 30 minutes it became a thick gel. After it had been stirred for 1.5 hours the reaction was quenched via addition of saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 300 mL and subsequently allowed to warm to room temperature. The mixture was partitioned between water 400 mL and ethyl acetate 300 mL the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 200 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to provide a viscous brown oil 54 g . A portion of this material 25.5 g was subjected to automated chromatography on silica gel Gradient 5 to 70 ethyl acetate in heptane affording an a oily solid. This material was dissolved in minimal ethyl acetate 20 mL and treated with heptane 400 mL solvents were removed in vacuo and heptane 400 mL was added to the residue. Concentration under reduced pressure provided the product as a yellow solid. Yield 17.3 g 56.7 mmol 85 adjusted for the fact that only a portion of the crude product was chromatographed . LCMS m z 305.1 307.1 M H . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.22 s 1H 6.1 6.8 v br s 1H 3.97 AB quartet upfield doublet is broadened J 12.7 Hz 16.1 Hz 2H 3.74 br d half of AB quartet J 7.5 Hz 1H 3.69 dd half of ABX pattern J 7.5 4.9 Hz 1H 3.68 3.74 m 1H 3.37 ddd J 11.8 6.8 4.7 Hz 1H 1.89 ddd J 14.1 6.9 2.1 Hz 1H 1.42 ddd J 14.1 11.7 11.7 Hz 1H 1.26 d J 6.1 Hz 3H .

A mixture of 2 4 dibromo 1 3 thiazole 11.85 g 48.78 mmol in toluene 90 mL and chlorobenzene 90 mL was cooled to 58 C. internal temperature and treated in a drop wise manner with n butyllithium 1.6 M solution in hexanes 29 mL 46 mmol while maintaining the internal reaction temperature at 55 C. In a separate flask a solution of P1 5.00 g 35.4 mmol in toluene 25 mL was cooled to 0 C. and slowly treated with boron trifluoride dibutyl etherate 11.0 mL 53.2 mmol while keeping the temperature of the solution below 5 C. The solution of P1 was then added in a drop wise manner to the lithiated thiazole solution while maintaining the internal reaction temperature between 54 C. and 58 C. After 10 minutes carbon dioxide vapor from 50 g of dry ice pellets previously blasted with a strong nitrogen stream to remove any frost coating the pellets was introduced to the reaction via bubbling it in under the surface of the liquid. After 20 minutes of bubbling the reaction mixture was treated with water 5 volumes . The organic layer was washed twice with aqueous sodium carbonate solution 10 5 volumes and with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 5 volumes . Solvent was removed under reduced pressure 50 mm mercury bath temperature 60 C. then 35 mm mercury bath temperature 80 C. and the resulting oil was treated with a solution of ethyl acetate in heptane 10 80 mL . Silica gel 15 g was added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 90 minutes whereupon it was filtered the filter cake was washed with a solution of ethyl acetate in heptane 25 4 30 mL and the combined filtrates were concentrated in vacuo to a volume of 30 mL. This material was granulated at room temperature for 4 hours. The solid was collected via filtration and washed with heptane to afford the product as a yellow solid. Yield 8.16 g 26.7 mmol 75 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.22 s 1H 6.43 br s 1H 3.97 AB quartet upfield doublet is broadened J 12.6 Hz 13.6 Hz 2H 3.75 br d half of AB quartet J 7.5 Hz 1H 3.69 dd half of ABX pattern J 7.4 4.8 Hz 1H 3.66 3.75 m 1H 3.38 ddd J 11.8 6.7 4.8 Hz 1H 1.89 ddd J 14.1 6.9 2.1 Hz 1H 1.42 ddd J 14.1 11.8 11.7 Hz 1H 1.27 d J 6.2 Hz 3H .

Degassed toluene 48 mL was added to a mixture of C3 6.01 g 19.7 mmol tert butyl carbamate 3.45 g 29.4 mmol and powdered potassium phosphate 12.6 g 59.4 mmol and the mixture was degassed with a stream of nitrogen. In a separate vessel tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 97 1.86 g 1.97 mmol and di tert butyl 2 4 6 tri propan 2 yl biphenyl 2 yl phosphane 98 428 mg 0.99 mmol were combined with degassed toluene 6 mL and heated at 100 C. for 2 minutes with stirring the dark purple mixture changed to a dark maroon color during this activation. The Pd ligand complex was added via syringe into the mixture containing C3 and the vessel was rinsed with degassed toluene 6 mL which was also was added to the reaction mixture. The reaction mixture was heated at 100 C. for 20 hours whereupon it was allowed to cool to room temperature and then filtered through diatomaceous earth. The filter pad was washed with ethyl acetate 2 50 mL and the combined filtrates were concentrated in vacuo. The resulting oil was purified by chromatography on silica gel Gradient 5 to 80 ethyl acetate in heptane affording the product as a fluffy yellow solid. Yield 5.16 g 15.1 mmol 77 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.22 7.30 br s 1H assumed partially obscured by solvent peak 7.12 7.21 br s 1H 4.3 4.5 v br s 1H 3.93 AB quartet downfield doublet is broadened J 12.7 Hz 27.2 Hz 2H 3.73 br d half of AB quartet J 7.4 Hz 1H 3.68 dd half of ABX pattern J 7.3 4.7 Hz 1H 3.63 3.7 m 1H 3.24 ddd J 11.6 6.8 4.9 Hz 1H 1.88 ddd J 14.2 6.8 2.0 Hz 1H 1.52 s 9H 1.42 ddd J 14.1 11.7 11.7 Hz 1H 1.27 d J 6.1 Hz 3H .

Compound C31 5.0 g 15 mmol Raney nickel Johnson Matthey Sponge Catalyst A5000 1.5 g 25 mmol and 2 propanol 150 mL were combined in a hydrogenation reactor. The reactor was purged 3 times with nitrogen and 3 times with hydrogen whereupon the reaction mixture was hydrogenated at 50 psi for 12 hours at 50 C. The reactor was then purged with nitrogen and the reaction mixture was filtered. The reactor and the filter cake were washed with 2 propanol 2 10 mL and filtered through the catalyst bed. The combined filtrates were concentrated in vacuo to afford the product as an oil 5.11 g . This material can be recrystallized from toluene 3 mL g to provide the product as white sugar like crystals however this is unnecessary for the subsequent chemistry. Yield 5.11 g 14.9 mmol 99 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.31 7.43 br s 1H 7.11 7.23 br s 1H 3.70 d J 11.4 Hz 1H 3.69 dd J 11.4 3.3 Hz 1H 3.62 3.7 m 1H 3.50 d J 11.4 Hz 1H 3.45 br dd J 11.4 3.5 Hz 1H 2.24 2.37 br s 1H 2.16 2.24 m 1H 1.82 ddd J 14 13 11 Hz 1H 1.70 ddd half of ABX pattern J 14.1 4.3 2.7 Hz 1H 1.52 s 9H 1.31 d J 6.2 Hz 3H .

Alternatively steps 2 and 3 can be carried out without isolation purification of C31. The filtrates from step 2 may be evaporated in vacuo to provide a concentrated solution of crude C31 in toluene. After addition of 2 propanol the Raney nickel reduction can be carried out and worked up as described in step 3. After addition of dichloromethane to the product the mixture is adjusted to a pH of 2 3 using an aqueous solution of citric acid. The organic layer is extracted with citric acid and the combined aqueous layers are washed twice with dichloromethane. Ethyl acetate is added to the aqueous layer and the mixture is adjusted to a pH of 9 10 via addition of an aqueous solution of potassium carbonate. After filtration the aqueous layer is extracted with ethyl acetate and the combined organic layers may be concentrated in vacuo to afford C32.

Compound C32 from the step 3 5.11 g 14.9 mmol was dissolved in ethyl acetate 50 mL . Benzoyl isothiocyanate 4.0 mL 30 mmol was added drop wise via syringe over 5 minutes and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 4 hours whereupon it was heated at reflux for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated to a volume of 25 mL then cooled to 0 C. and treated with concentrated hydrochloric acid 1.8 mL 22 mmol via drop wise addition over 5 minutes. The resulting slurry was stirred for 30 minutes and then filtered. The filter cake consisted of the product as a white solid. Yield 5.63 g 10.7 mmol 72 yield. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 10.26 br s 1H 8.12 8.17 m 2H 7.64 br dd J 7.4 7.3 Hz 1H 7.54 br dd J 7.8 7.3 Hz 2H 7.25 br s 1H 4.07 d J 11.9 Hz 1H 3.80 d J 11.9 Hz 1H 3.66 3.76 m 1H 2.85 2.97 m 3H 1.72 1.80 m 1H 1.49 1.61 m 1H 1.44 s 9H 1.19 d J 6.1 Hz 3H .

A mixture of C33 5.0 g 9.5 mmol and toluene 20 mL was cooled to 10 C. and treated drop wise with concentrated hydrochloric acid 4.7 mL 56 mmol over 2 minutes. The reaction mixture was then allowed to warm to room temperature with rapid stirring. After 1 hour the lower aqueous phase of the reaction mixture was added to a room temperature mixture of disodium hydrogen phosphate 13.5 g 95.1 mmol in water 100 mL and ethyl acetate 100 mL the aqueous phase of the resulting mixture was confirmed to be at a pH of 6 7. The organic layer was dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to a low stirrable volume. tert Butyl methyl ether 15 mL was added and the mixture was agitated to give a slurry which was stirred for 20 minutes the solid was collected via filtration to afford the product as an off white solid 2.98 g . The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to provide additional product 260 mg . Combined yield 3.24 g 8.34 mmol 88 yield. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.06 8.22 m 2H 7.49 7.55 m 1H 7.41 7.48 m 2H 5.94 s 1H 4.03 4.13 br s 2H 3.94 AB quartet J 12.1 Hz 6.9 Hz 2H 3.71 3.81 m 1H 3.21 dd J 12.9 4.0 Hz 1H 2.96 3.05 m 1H 2.58 dd J 13.0 2.8 Hz 1H 1.82 1.94 m 1H 1.64 ddd J 13.7 4.3 2.3 Hz 1H 1.28 d J 6.2 Hz 3H . The stereochemistry of P2 was confirmed through X ray crystal structure determination of the hydrochloride salt of Example 1 described below.

Potassium carbonate 45.1 g 326 mmol was added to a solution of methyl 5 hydroxypyridine 2 carboxylate 20 g 130 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 500 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 0.5 hours. Sodium chloro difluoro acetate 63.7 g 418 mmol was introduced and the resulting mixture was heated at 100 C. for 5 hours whereupon it was partitioned between saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 300 mL and ethyl acetate 300 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 200 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 2 200 mL dried filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Eluent 5 1 petroleum ether ethyl acetate afforded the product as a pale yellow oil. Yield 17 g 84 mmol 65 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.56 s 1H 8.17 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 7.59 br d J 8.7 Hz 1H 6.64 t J 71.9 Hz 1H 4.00 s 3H .

A solution of C7 17 g 84 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 100 mL and water 50 mL was cooled to 0 C. and treated with lithium hydroxide 6.0 g 250 mmol . After the reaction mixture had stirred at room temperature for 2 hours it was acidified to a pH of 3 with 1 M aqueous hydrochloric acid. The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 100 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 100 mL dried filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the product as a white solid. Yield 13 g 69 mmol 82 . LCMS m z 189.8 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.52 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 8.29 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 7.73 dd J 8.6 2.4 Hz 1H 6.68 t J 71.5 Hz 1H .

To a solution of P2 350 mg 0.901 mmol and C8 204 mg 1.08 mmol in acetonitrile 9 mL was added N N diisopropylethylamine 0.314 mL 1.80 mmol followed by O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate HATU 97 424 mg 1.08 mmol . After the reaction mixture had stirred for 4 hours it was partitioned between ethyl acetate 10 mL and water 10 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted twice with ethyl acetate and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 50 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 80 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a solid. Yield 410 mg 0.733 mmol 81 . LCMS m z 560.3 M H .

A solution of C9 390 mg 0.762 mmol and 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DBU 95 132 L 0.838 mmol in methanol 15 mL was heated at 70 C. for 90 minutes. After removal of solvent in vacuo the residue was purified via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 8 methanol in dichloromethane to provide the product as a solid. Yield 191 mg 0.419 mmol 55 . LCMS m z 456.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.40 br s 1H 8.48 br dd J 2.7 0.6 Hz 1H 8.31 dd J 8.6 0.6 Hz 1H 7.72 s 1H 7.68 ddt J 8.6 2.7 0.7 Hz 1H 6.65 t J 72.0 Hz 1H 3.93 AB quartet downfield doublet is broadened J 11.2 Hz 45.8 Hz 2H 3.75 dqd J 11.2 6.1 2.3 Hz 1H 3.19 dd J 12.6 4.0 Hz 1H 2.83 2.90 m 1H 2.61 dd J 12.6 2.8 Hz 1H 1.81 ddd J 13.2 12.9 11.4 Hz 1H 1.56 ddd J 13.4 4.2 2.3 Hz 1H 1.30 d J 6.1 Hz 3H .

2 4 6 Tripropyl 1 3 5 2 4 6 trioxatriphosphinane 2 4 6 trioxide 50 solution by weight in ethyl acetate 19.2 mL 32.2 mmol was added over 5 minutes to an ice cooled mixture of C8 2.51 g 13.3 mmol P2 5.00 g 12.9 mmol and triethylamine 7.2 mL 52 mmol in ethyl acetate 28 mL while the reaction temperature was maintained between 0 C. and 5 C. After 45 minutes of stirring at 20 C. to 25 C. the reaction mixture was diluted with dichloromethane 50 mL then quenched via addition of aqueous hydrochloric acid 1 M 50 mL . The resulting mixture was washed with an aqueous solution of triethylamine 1 M 50 mL . The organic layer was atmospherically displaced with 2 propanol to a final volume of 75 mL which consisted of product and 2 propanol. This slurry was cooled to 0 C. to 5 C. and granulated for 30 minutes the solid was collected via filtration and washed with cold 2 propanol affording the product as a solid. Yield 5.75 g 10.3 mmol 80 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.62 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 8.23 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 7.94 8.19 v br m 2H 7.92 dd J 8.8 2.7 Hz 1H 7.73 7.79 br s 1H 7.5 7.6 br s 1H 7.49 t J 72.8 Hz 1H 7.45 7.51 m 2H 4.06 4.21 v br s 1H 3.82 br d J 11.6 Hz 1H 3.69 3.8 v br m 1H 2.85 3.06 br m 2H 2.69 2.80 br m 1H 1.67 1.79 br m 1H 1.53 1.66 m 1H 1.19 d J 6.0 Hz 3H .

SiliCycle SiliaMetS Diamine 4.72 g 5.36 mmol was added to a solution of C9 1.00 g 1.79 mmol in toluene 10 mL and the reaction mixture was heated at reflux overnight. After being cooled to 35 C. the reaction mixture was diluted with dichloromethane 10 mL stirred for 10 minutes at 35 C. and filtered through diatomaceous earth to remove the SiliCycle reagent. The filter pad was rinsed with dichloromethane and the combined filtrates were heated to reflux and displaced with isopropyl acetate 4 10 mL to a final volume of 15 mL. This mixture was heated to 50 C. treated with concentrated hydrochloric acid 0.17 mL 2.0 mmol and subsequently cooled to 0 C. to 5 C. and allowed to granulate for 1 hour. The solid was collected via filtration and washed with cold propan 2 yl acetate to afford the product as a solid. This material was crystalline by powder X ray diffraction analysis. Yield 0.67 g 1.4 mmol 78 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.30 br s 1H 10.73 s 1H 9.6 9.9 v br s 1H 8.6 8.9 v br s 1H 8.63 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 8.24 d J 8.6 Hz 1H 7.93 dd J 8.7 2.8 Hz 1H 7.84 s 1H 7.51 t J 72.8 Hz 1H 3.96 AB quartet J 12.2 Hz 62.6 Hz 2H 3.75 3.85 m 1H 3.02 3.11 m 3H 1.73 1.82 m 1H 1.39 1.52 m 1H 1.21 d J 6.2 Hz 3H .

A sample of Example 1 224 mg 0.492 mmol was dissolved in ethyl acetate 1 mL at 60 C. Hydrogen chloride 2 M in diethyl ether 0.49 mL 0.98 mmol was added and the slurry was allowed to cool to room temperature with stirring. Solvents were removed in vacuo and the residue was dissolved in hot ethanol. The resulting solution was allowed to cool to room temperature and stand for 3 days single crystals were observed one of which was subjected to the X ray crystal structure determination described below. This confirmed the indicated stereochemistry of the hydrochloride salt of Example 1. The ethanol was blown down to a minimum and the solid was collected via filtration. This sample was crystalline by powder X ray diffraction analysis. Yield 200 mg 0.41 mmol 83 .

Data collection was performed on a Bruker APEX diffractometer at room temperature. Data collection consisted of omega and phi scans.

The structure was solved by direct methods using SHELX software suite in the space group P222. The structure was subsequently refined by the full matrix least squares method. All non hydrogen atoms were found and refined using anisotropic displacement parameters.

The asymmetric unit is comprised of one ionized molecule of the compound of Example 1 and one chloride ion.

The hydrogen atoms located on nitrogen and oxygen were found from the Fourier difference map and refined freely. The remaining hydrogen atoms were placed in calculated positions and were allowed to ride on their carrier atoms. The final refinement included isotropic displacement parameters for all hydrogen atoms.

The final R index was 5.8 . A final difference Fourier revealed no missing or misplaced electron density.

Pertinent crystal data collection and refinement information is summarized in Table XR4. Atomic coordinates bond lengths bond angles torsion angles and displacement parameters are listed in Tables XR5 XR8.

To a solution of methyl 5 hydroxypyrazine 2 carboxylate 9.25 g 60.0 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 120 mL were added potassium carbonate 24.8 g 179 mmol and sodium chloro difluoro acetate 18.3 g 120 mmol . The mixture was heated to 100 C. for 15 minutes whereupon it was filtered and the filter cake was washed with ethyl acetate 2 50 mL . The combined filtrates were poured into saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 200 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 200 mL the combined organic layers were washed sequentially with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 2 300 mL and with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 2 300 mL dried filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 15 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether afforded the product as a yellow solid. Yield 1.7 g 8.3 mmol 14 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.92 d J 1.2 Hz 1H 8.47 d J 1.2 Hz 1H 7.49 t J 71.3 Hz 1H 4.04 s 3H .

Aqueous sodium hydroxide solution 5 M 4.10 mL 20.5 mmol was added to a solution of C10 2.10 g 10.3 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 25 mL and water 12 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 5 minutes whereupon it was treated with aqueous hydrochloric acid 2 M 11 mL . The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 150 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 2 100 mL dried filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the product as a yellow solid. Yield 1.8 g 9.5 mmol 92 . LCMS m z 189.0 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.05 d J 1.3 Hz 1H 8.43 d J 1.4 Hz 1H 7.52 t J 71.0 Hz 1H .

Compound P2 was reacted with C11 using the method described for synthesis of C9 in Example 1. The product was isolated as a solid. Yield 65 mg 0.12 mmol 52 . LCMS m z 561.3 M H .

Pyridine 0.96 mL 12 mmol and methoxylamine hydrochloride 96.9 mg 1.16 mmol were added to a solution of C12 65 mg 0.12 mmol in ethanol 1.2 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at 50 C. for 5 hours whereupon it was cooled to room temperature and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was diluted with dichloromethane and washed sequentially with aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 3 times with water and with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution. After being dried over sodium sulfate and filtered the solution was concentrated under reduced pressure and purified via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 4 methanol in dichloromethane to provide the product as a solid. Yield 41 mg 90 mol 75 . LCMS m z 457.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.09 br s 1H 9.06 d J 1.3 Hz 1H 8.34 d J 1.3 Hz 1H 7.71 s 1H 7.51 t J 71.4 Hz 1H 3.89 AB quartet J 11.1 Hz 40.8 Hz 2H 3.73 dqd J 11.2 6.1 2.2 Hz 1H 3.16 dd J 12.5 4.0 Hz 1H 2.77 2.84 m 1H 2.58 dd J 12.5 2.8 Hz 1H 1.80 ddd J 13.1 12.9 11.4 Hz 1H 1.53 ddd J 13.4 4.2 2.3 Hz 1H 1.28 d J 6.1 Hz 3H .

A solution of dichloroacetonitrile 215 g 1.96 mol in methanol 200 mL was added drop wise to a 5 C. solution of sodium methoxide 15.4 g 0.285 mol in methanol 500 mL . A solution of ethyl serinate hydrochloride salt 382 g 2.45 mol in methanol 300 mL was then added to the 5 C. reaction mixture which was subsequently allowed to stir at room temperature for 16 hours. Dichloromethane 1 L and water 800 mL were added and the aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 1 L the combined organic layers were concentrated in vacuo to provide the product as a yellow oil which was used in the next step without additional purification. Yield 300 g 1.4 mol 71 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 6.29 s 1H 4.90 dd J 10.8 8.3 Hz 1H 4.74 dd J 8.8 8.3 Hz 1H 4.66 dd J 10.8 8.9 Hz 1H 3.82 s 3H .

A solution of C13 205 g 0.967 mol in methanol 700 mL was added drop wise to a cooled solution of sodium methoxide 52.2 g 0.966 mol in methanol 300 mL at a rate sufficient to maintain the reaction temperature below 10 C. The reaction mixture was then stirred at room temperature for 16 hours whereupon it was diluted with dichloromethane 1 L and water 800 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 2 500 mL and the combined organic layers were concentrated in vacuo to afford the product as a yellow oil. This material was used in the next step without additional purification. Yield 200 g 0.96 mol 99 .

 7 7 Dimethyl 2 oxobicyclo 2.2.1 hept 1 Amethanesulfonic acid camphorsulfonic acid 45.9 g 0.198 mol was added to a solution of C14 193 g 0.930 mol in toluene 700 mL and the reaction mixture was heated at 70 C. for 1 hour. Water 1 L was added and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 1 L the combined organic layers were sequentially washed with aqueous potassium carbonate solution 10 500 mL water 800 mL and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 0.8 L dried and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 5 to 25 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether provided the product as a white solid. Yield 55 g 0.31 mol 33 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.26 s 1H 4.65 s 2H 3.93 s 3H .

To a suspension of C15 40 g 0.23 mol in acetonitrile 1 L was added tetrabutylammonium fluoride 357 g 1.36 mol and the reaction mixture was stirred at 25 C. for 16 hours. After removal of solvent in vacuo the residue was diluted with water 1 L and extracted with ethyl acetate 4 1 L . The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 17 to 23 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether afforded the product as a yellow solid. Yield 8.7 g 55 mmol 24 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.31 d J 1.2 Hz 1H 5.43 d J 47.2 Hz 2H 3.94 s 3H .

To a solution of C16 18 g 110 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 150 mL was added a solution of lithium hydroxide 5.42 g 226 mmol in a mixture of methanol and water 1 1 500 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour whereupon it was concentrated in vacuo. After the residue had been dissolved in water 500 mL it was acidified to a pH of 2 by addition of 2 M aqueous hydrochloric acid. The aqueous layer was then extracted with ethyl acetate 2 100 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure providing the product as a yellow solid. Yield 13 g 90 mmol 82 . LCMS m z 144.0 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.61 s 1H 5.47 d J 47 Hz 2H .

A solution of P2 803 mg 2.07 mmol and C17 300 mg 2.07 mmol in ethyl acetate 4 mL was cooled to 0 C. and treated with pyridine 0.67 mL 8.3 mmol and 2 4 6 tripropyl 1 3 5 2 4 6 trioxatriphosphinane 2 4 6 trioxide T3P 50 solution in ethyl acetate 2.46 mL 4.13 mmol . The reaction mixture was allowed to stir for 2 hours whereupon it was diluted with ethyl acetate washed sequentially with aqueous hydrochloric acid 1 M three times aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution and then concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as a solid. Yield 650 mg 1.26 mmol 61 . LCMS m z 516.1 M H .

Pyridine 12.9 mL 158 mmol and methoxylamine hydrochloride 1.31 g 15.7 mmol were added to a solution of C18 0.81 g 1.6 mmol in ethanol 16 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at 50 C. for 2.5 hours whereupon it was cooled to room temperature and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was diluted with dichloromethane 5 mL and washed sequentially with aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 3 times water and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 80 ethyl acetate in heptane gave material that was treated with a minimum amount of acetonitrile at 50 C. The resulting slurry was cooled to room temperature with stirring and allowed to crystallize. Filtration under reduced pressure provided the product as a crystalline solid as confirmed by microscopic analysis and birefringence . Yield 360 mg 0.875 mmol 55 . LCMS m z 412.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.37 br s 1H 8.36 d J 1.4 Hz 1H 7.65 s 1H 5.44 d J 47.2 Hz 2H 4.47 4.64 br s 2H 3.89 AB quartet downfield doublet is broadened J 11.0 Hz 45.1 Hz 2H 3.69 3.78 m 1H 3.16 dd J 12.5 4.0 Hz 1H 2.77 2.85 m 1H 2.59 dd J 12.5 2.8 Hz 1H 1.81 ddd J 13 13 11 Hz 1H 1.54 ddd J 13 4.2 Hz 1H 1.30 d J 6.1 Hz 3H .

To a solution of 1 difluoromethyl 1H pyrazole 3 carboxylic acid 125 mg 0.771 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 5 mL was added N N diisopropylethylamine 416 mg 3.22 mmol at room temperature followed by addition of O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate HATU 734 mg 1.93 mmol . After the reaction mixture had been stirred for 30 minutes a solution of P2 250 mg 0.644 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 2 mL was added via syringe and stirring was continued for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was then poured into ice water 150 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 100 mL the combined organic layers were washed with water 2 100 mL and with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 2 100 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification via preparative thin layer chromatography on silica gel Eluent 2 1 petroleum ether ethyl acetate afforded the product as a yellow oil. Yield 150 mg 0.28 mmol 43 . LCMS m z 532.9 M H .

Methoxylamine hydrochloride 236 mg 2.82 mmol and pyridine 2.19 g 27.7 mmol were added to a solution of C19 150 mg 0.28 mmol in ethanol 4 mL and the reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 16 hours. Solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was purified via reversed phase HPLC Column Agela Durashell C18 5 m Mobile phase A aqueous ammonia pH 10 Mobile phase B acetonitrile Gradient 15 to 35 B providing the product as a white solid. Yield 54.7 mg 0.128 mmol 46 . LCMS m z 428.8 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.35 br s 1H 7.90 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 7.65 s 1H 7.22 t J 60.5 Hz 1H 7.08 d J 2.6 Hz 1H 4.50 4.62 br s 2H 3.90 AB quartet J 11 Hz 43 Hz 2H 3.69 3.79 m 1H 3.16 dd J 12 4 Hz 1H 2.77 2.85 m 1H 2.56 2.62 m 1H 1.75 1.87 m 1H 1.51 1.6 m 1H assumed partially obscured by water peak 1.29 d J 6.2 Hz 3H .

Reaction of P2 with 5 cyanopyridine 2 carboxylic acid was carried out using the method described for synthesis of C19 in Example 4. The product was obtained as a yellow oil. Yield 300 mg 0.58 mmol 45 . LCMS m z 519.1 M H .

Methoxylamine hydrochloride 483 mg 5.78 mmol and pyridine 4.58 g 57.9 mmol were added to a solution of C20 300 mg 0.58 mmol in ethanol 4 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at 50 C. for 16 hours. After removal of solvent under reduced pressure the residue was purified via reversed phase HPLC Column Kromasil Eternity XT C18 10 m Mobile phase A aqueous ammonia pH 10 Mobile phase B acetonitrile Gradient 22 to 42 B to afford the product as a white solid. Yield 69 mg 0.17 mmol 29 . LCMS m z 414.8 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.44 br s 1H 8.90 8.94 m 1H 8.43 br d J 8.3 Hz 1H 8.22 dd J 8 2 Hz 1H 7.77 s 1H 4.5 4.9 br s 2H 3.92 AB quartet J 11 Hz 44 Hz 2H 3.70 3.80 m 1H 3.17 dd J 12 4 Hz 1H 2.81 2.89 m 1H 2.61 dd J 13 3 Hz 1H 1.75 1.87 m 1H 1.52 1.60 m 1H 1.30 d J 6.2 Hz 3H .

A solution of 1 difluoromethyl 1H pyrazole 3 carboxylic acid 238 mg 1.47 mmol in methanol 9 mL was cooled to 0 C. and treated with concentrated sulfuric acid 98 0.10 mL 1.8 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 2 hours whereupon it was cooled concentrated in vacuo and partitioned between ethyl acetate 15 mL and water 15 mL . The organic layer was washed with water 3 10 mL until the water washes reached pH 4 5 then washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 10 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The product was obtained as a clear colorless oil. Yield 241 mg 1.37 mmol 93 . LCMS m z 177.0 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.89 d J 2.7 Hz 1H 7.28 t J 60.0 Hz 1H 6.99 d J 2.6 Hz 1H 3.98 s 3H .

A solution of C21 235 mg 1.33 mmol and N chlorosuccinimide 600 mg 4.5 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 2.5 mL was heated at 50 C. for 16 hours. N Chlorosuccinimide 0.40 g 3.0 mmol was again added and heating was continued for 5 hours. The reaction mixture was then cooled poured into water 20 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 4 20 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 20 mL washed with water dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 50 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as a white solid. Yield 158 mg 0.750 mmol 56 . GCMS m z 210 212 M . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.79 s 1H 7.89 t J 58.5 Hz 1H 3.87 s 3H .

Compound C22 was hydrolyzed using the method described for synthesis of C17 in Example 3. The product was obtained as a white solid. Yield 138 mg 0.702 mmol 95 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 13.62 br s 1H 8.73 s 1H 7.87 t J 58.6 Hz 1H .

Reaction of P2 with C23 was carried out using the method described for synthesis of C18 in Example 3 affording the product as a white solid. Yield 63 mg 0.11 mmol 71 . LCMS m z 567.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.31 s 1H 7.98 8.24 br s 2H 7.95 s 1H 7.70 7.83 br s 1H 7.39 7.65 m 3H 7.16 t J 60 Hz 1H 3.86 4.05 m 2H 3.70 3.82 m 1H 3.12 3.25 m 1H 2.92 3.07 m 1H 2.54 2.69 m 1H 1.77 1.98 m 1H 1.53 1.74 m 2H 1.27 1.35 m 3H .

Compound C24 was converted to the product according to the method described for synthesis of 2 in Example 2. The product was obtained as a white solid. Yield 41.9 mg 90.5 mol 85 . LCMS m z 463.0 465.0 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.27 br s 1H 7.94 s 1H 7.68 s 1H 7.15 t J 60 Hz 1H 4.46 4.66 br s 2H 3.89 AB quartet J 11 Hz 44 Hz 2H 3.68 3.78 m 1H 3.12 3.19 m 1H 2.74 2.83 m 1H 2.58 br d J 12 Hz 1H 1.75 1.87 m 1H 1.49 1.57 m 1H 1.29 d J 6 Hz 3H .

5 Chloropyridine 2 carboxylic acid was reacted with P2 using the method described for synthesis of C19 in Example 4. The product was obtained as a colorless oil. Yield 80 mg 0.15 mmol 71 . LCMS m z 527.9 M H .

Methoxylamine hydrochloride 94.9 mg 1.14 mmol and pyridine 899 mg 11.4 mmol were added to a solution of C25 60 mg 0.11 mmol in ethanol 5 mL and the reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 72 hours. Volatiles were removed under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by reversed phase HPLC Column Phenomenex Gemini C18 8 m Mobile phase A aqueous ammonia pH 10 Mobile phase B acetonitrile Gradient 45 to 65 B to afford the product as a white solid. Yield 12.7 mg 30.0 mol 27 . LCMS m z 423.8 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.40 br s 1H 8.58 d J 2.3 Hz 1H 8.24 d J 8.3 Hz 1H 7.90 dd J 8.4 2.4 Hz 1H 7.73 s 1H 4.5 4.8 br s 2H 3.92 AB quartet J 11.1 Hz 40.2 Hz 2H 3.71 3.80 m 1H 3.18 dd J 12.6 4.2 Hz 1H 2.81 2.89 m 1H 2.60 dd J 12 3 Hz 1H 1.75 1.87 m 1H 1.51 1.59 m 1H 1.30 d J 6.2 Hz 3H .

2 4 6 Tripropyl 1 3 5 2 4 6 trioxatriphosphinane 2 4 6 trioxide 50 solution by weight in ethyl acetate 732 mL 1.23 mol was added over 25 minutes to a 0 C. to 5 C. mixture of P2 191.0 g 491.6 mmol 5 chloropyridine 2 carboxylic acid 79.8 g 506 mmol and triethylamine 274 mL 1.97 mol in ethyl acetate 1.05 L . The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and was stirred for 1 hour whereupon it was diluted with dichloromethane 1.9 L and quenched with aqueous hydrochloric acid 1 M 1.9 L . The organic layer was washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 1.9 L then displaced with 2 propanol to a volume of 2.8 L at a temperature of 80 C. The resulting slurry was cooled to 0 C. to 5 C. and granulated for 30 minutes the solid was collected via filtration and washed with cold 2 propanol affording the product as a light pink solid. Yield 226.3 g 428.6 mmol 87 .

SiliCycle SiliaMetS Diamine 1.13 kg 1.28 mol was added to a solution of C25 226.3 g 428.6 mmol in toluene 2.26 L and the reaction mixture was heated at reflux overnight. It was then cooled to 50 C. and diluted with tetrahydrofuran 2.26 L . After cooling to room temperature the mixture was filtered through diatomaceous earth to remove the SiliCycle reagent and the filter pad was washed with tetrahydrofuran 1 L . The combined filtrates were concentrated in vacuo to a volume of approximately 2.5 L whereupon concentrated hydrochloric acid 73.6 mL 884 mmol was added. The mixture was repeatedly concentrated in vacuo with 2 propanol 3 2.3 L to a final volume of 2.3 L then cooled to 0 C. to 5 C. and granulated for 30 minutes. Filtration followed by washing of the collected solid with cold 2 propanol afforded the product as a solid 135.4 g . Additional product was obtained from the spent SiliCycle reagent as follows the spent material was slurried and stirred in tetrahydrofuran 1.5 L then filtered through diatomaceous earth. The filter pad was washed with tetrahydrofuran 500 mL and the combined filtrates were concentrated in vacuo to provide approximately 55 g of material. This was mixed with 2 propanol 550 mL treated with concentrated hydrochloric acid 18.5 mL 222 mmol and granulated at room temperature for 30 minutes. Filtration and washing of the collected solid with cold 2 propanol afforded additional product as a solid 42.1 g . These two batches of product were combined treated with methanol 1.8 L and dichloromethane 2.2 L and heated to reflux. The resulting solution was concentrated to a volume of approximately 1.5 L then displaced with 2 propanol to a volume of approximately 1.8 L. This mixture was cooled to 0 C. to 5 C. and granulated for 30 minutes the solid was collected by filtration and washed with cold 2 propanol affording the product as a solid. Yield 165.8 g 360.1 mmol 84 LCMS m z 424.3 426.3 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.71 dd J 2.4 0.7 Hz 1H 8.22 dd half of ABX pattern J 8.4 0.7 Hz 1H 8.09 dd half of ABX pattern J 8.4 2.4 Hz 1H 7.90 s 1H 4.06 s 2H 3.82 3.92 m 1H 3.19 3.26 m 2H 2.97 3.04 m 1H 1.83 ddd J 14 4 2.5 Hz 1H 1.62 ddd J 14 11.5 11.5 Hz 1H 1.29 d J 6.2 Hz 3H .

A sample of Example 7 150 mg 0.35 mmol was dissolved in ethanol 10 mL at 60 C. Concentrated hydrochloric acid 59.0 L 0.708 mmol was added and the slurry was allowed to slowly cool to room temperature with stirring. The resulting crystals were collected via filtration to afford the product as a white solid which was crystalline by powder X ray diffraction analysis. Yield 147 mg 0.319 mmol 91 . LCMS m z 424.1 426.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.20 br s 1H 10.78 s 1H 9.5 9.9 v br s 1H 8.81 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 8.5 8.85 v br s 1H 8.23 dd half of ABX pattern J 8.4 2.4 Hz 1H 8.16 d half of AB quartet J 8.4 Hz 1H 7.85 s 1H 4.04 d J 12.2 Hz 1H 3.88 d J 12.0 Hz 1H 3.75 3.85 m 1H 3.01 3.12 m 3H 1.73 1.82 m 1H 1.39 1.51 m 1H 1.21 d J 6.2 Hz 3H .

A mixture of 2E 3 phenylprop 2 enamide 2.00 g 13.6 mmol and sodium bicarbonate 4.57 g 54.4 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 48 mL was cooled to 0 C. Ethyl 3 bromo 2 oxopropanoate 3.16 mL 25.2 mmol was added drop wise and the reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 4 hours whereupon it was filtered through diatomaceous earth and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 33 mL cooled to 0 C. and treated drop wise with trifluoroacetic anhydride 14.8 mL 105 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 10 hours then cooled to 0 C. and quenched via addition of saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution. The mixture was extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 30 ethyl acetate in heptane provided partially purified product this was crystallized from heptane ethyl acetate to afford the product as pale yellow needles. Yield 1.52 g 6.25 mmol 46 . LCMS m z 244.1 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.20 s 1H 7.63 d J 16.4 Hz 1H 7.51 7.56 m 2H 7.34 7.43 m 3H 6.97 d J 16.5 Hz 1H 4.42 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 1.41 t J 7.1 Hz 3H .

To a solution of C26 394 mg 1.62 mmol in a mixture of 1 4 dioxane and water 3 1 16 mL was added 2 6 dimethylpyridine 375 L 3.24 mmol osmium tetroxide 8.1 mg 32 mol as a 2.5 weight solution in tert butanol and sodium periodate 1.39 g 6.50 mmol . After 23 hours at room temperature the reaction mixture was partitioned between dichloromethane and water the aqueous layer was extracted three times with dichloromethane and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 80 ethyl acetate in heptane afforded the product as a solid. Yield 102 mg 0.603 mmol 37 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.83 d J 0.9 Hz 1H 8.43 d J 0.8 Hz 1H 4.46 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 1.43 t J 7.2 Hz 3H .

 Diethylamino sulfur trifluoride 126 L 0.954 mmol was added to a 0 C. solution of C27 102 mg 0.603 mmol in dichloromethane 4 mL and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature. After 72 hours the reaction mixture was partitioned between water and dichloromethane. The organic layer was washed sequentially with 1 M aqueous hydrochloric acid water saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 30 ethyl acetate in heptane provided the product as a white fluffy solid. Yield 72.5 mg 0.379 mmol 63 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.34 td J 0.8 0.3 Hz 1H 6.70 td J 52.1 0.3 Hz 1H 4.42 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 1.40 t J 7.1 Hz 3H .

Lithium hydroxide 27.2 mg 1.14 mmol was added to a solution of C28 72.5 mg 0.379 mmol in a mixture of tetrahydrofuran water and methanol 1 1 1 3 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred for 3 hours. After removal of volatiles under reduced pressure the residue was partitioned between diethyl ether 25 mL and water 25 ml . The aqueous layer was extracted twice with diethyl ether acidified to pH 1 with 1 M aqueous hydrochloric acid and extracted three times with dichloromethane. The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford the product as a solid. Yield 30.3 mg 0.186 mmol 49 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 13.44 br s 1H 9.00 s 1H 7.28 t J 52 Hz 1H .

Reaction of C29 with P2 was carried out using the method described for synthesis of C9 in Example 1. The product was obtained as a white solid. Yield 50.4 mg 94.4 mol 79 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.37 br s 1H 8.43 s 1H 7.9 8.3 br s 2H 7.72 s 1H 7.51 7.59 m 1H 7.43 7.51 m 2H 6.71 t J 52.4 Hz 1H 3.95 AB quartet upfield doublet is broadened J 12 Hz 23 Hz 2H 3.72 3.82 m 1H 3.17 br dd J 13 4 Hz 1H 2.95 3.06 m 1H 2.61 dd J 13 2 Hz 1H 1.83 1.97 m 1H 1.64 1.72 m 1H 1.31 d J 6.2 Hz 3H .

Compound C30 was converted to the product using the method described for synthesis of 5 in Example 5. In this case the crude product was subjected to silica gel chromatography Gradient methanol in dichloromethane . Addition of dichloromethane to a deuterochloroform solution of the chromatographed material produced a solid which was isolated via filtration to afford the product as a solid. Yield 7.9 mg 18 mol 19 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.10 s 1H 7.81 s 1H 7.33 t J 52 Hz 1H 3.95 AB quartet J 12 Hz 82 Hz 2H 3.70 3.81 m 1H 2.96 3.10 m 3H 1.79 br d J 13 Hz 1H 1.39 1.52 m 1H 1.21 br d J 5 Hz 3H .

A mixture of 3 methylpyridine 2 carbonitrile 128 g 1.08 mol and tetrabutylammonium nitrate 363 g 1.19 mol in tert butyl methyl ether 1.3 L was cooled to 4 C. Trifluoroacetic anhydride 171 mL 1.21 mol was added and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 60 hours. It was then adjusted to a pH of approximately 7 by addition of 20 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution and extracted with dichloromethane 3 1 L . The combined organic layers were dried filtered and concentrated in vacuo purification via silica gel chromatography Gradient 0 to 10 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether afforded the product as a yellow solid. Yield 70 g 0.43 mmol 40 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.31 9.36 m 1H 8.47 8.52 m 1H 2.74 s 3H .

To a solution of C34 40.0 g 245 mmol in ethanol 630 mL and water 70 mL was added calcium chloride 13.6 g 123 mmol followed by iron powder 123 g 2.20 mol and the reaction mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature. After filtration of the reaction mixture the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and the residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel Gradient 10 to 50 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether . The product was obtained as a yellow solid. Yield 20.0 g 150 mmol 61 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.94 d J 2.5 Hz 1H 6.81 d J 2.5 Hz 1H 4.07 4.19 br s 2H 2.45 s 3H .

Sodium nitrite 1.6 M aqueous solution containing 10.3 g of sodium nitrite 149 mmol was slowly added to a 0 C. solution of C35 18.0 g 135 mmol in water 243 mL and concentrated sulfuric acid 67.5 mL . The reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and then stirred at 100 C. for 3 hours whereupon it was cooled and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 75 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water 2 75 mL and with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 2 75 mL dried filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the product as a yellow solid. Yield 16 g 120 mmol 89 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.07 br s 1H 8.08 d J 2.6 Hz 1H 7.20 d J 2.3 Hz 1H 2.40 s 3H .

A mixture of C36 5.70 g 42.5 mmol sodium chlorodifluoroacetate 13.0 g 85.3 mmol and potassium carbonate 17.6 g 127 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 175 mL was stirred for 30 minutes at 100 C. The reaction mixture was then diluted with ethyl acetate 400 mL and sequentially washed with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 3 200 mL and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 3 200 mL . The combined aqueous layers were extracted with ethyl acetate 200 mL and the combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Silica gel chromatography Gradient 5 to 15 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether provided the product as a colorless oil. Yield 3.9 g 21 mmol 49 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.39 br d J 2.1 Hz 1H 7.43 7.47 m 1H 6.64 t J 71.5 Hz 1H 2.59 s 3H .

Aqueous sodium hydroxide solution 1 M 124 mL 124 mmol was added to a solution of C37 7.60 g 41.3 mmol in ethanol 200 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred for 16 hours at 70 C. It was then diluted with tert butyl methyl ether 200 mL and extracted with water 2 100 mL . The combined aqueous layers were washed with tert butyl methyl ether 100 mL acidified to pH 2 with 1 M aqueous hydrochloric acid and extracted with tert butyl methyl ether 2 200 mL . The combined organic extracts were dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford the product as a white solid. Yield 6.6 g 32 mmol 77 . LCMS m z 203.7 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.32 br d J 2.1 Hz 1H 7.58 7.62 m 1H 7.06 t J 72.7 Hz 1H 2.64 s 3H .

A flask charged with tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 3.54 g 3.87 mmol di tert butyl 2 4 6 tri propan 2 yl biphenyl 2 yl phosphane 4.93 g 11.6 mmol and sodium tert butoxide 18.6 g 194 mmol was purged twice with nitrogen. 1 4 Dioxane 145 mL was added and the reaction mixture was heated at 85 C. internal reaction temperature for 5 minutes whereupon a solution of C6 35.0 g 77.4 mmol and 1 2 4 dimethoxyphenyl methanamine 19.8 mL 132 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 140 mL was concurrently added through 5 syringes. After the addition had been completed stirring was continued for 15 minutes at 85 C. internal reaction temperature the reaction mixture was then removed from the oil bath and quickly cooled to room temperature via immersion in a water bath. Diatomaceous earth and water 600 mL were added and the mixture was filtered through a pad of diatomaceous earth. The pad was washed with dichloromethane 3 300 mL . The organic layer of the combined filtrates was washed with water 3 300 mL until the pH of the resulting aqueous layer was found to be neutral. The organic layer was then washed sequentially with an aqueous solution of citric acid 5 2 500 mL saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 2 300 mL and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 500 mL dried over sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was adsorbed onto silica gel and chromatographed Gradient 10 to 100 5 triethylamine in ethyl acetate in heptane the orange solid obtained from chromatography was triturated with diethyl ether 100 mL to afford the product as a white solid 17.8 g . The filtrate from the trituration was concentrated in vacuo and the residue was triturated with diethyl ether 50 mL to provide additional product as a brown solid 11.5 g . Combined yield 29.3 g 54.4 mmol 70 . LCMS m z 539.2 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.04 8.27 br s 2H 7.39 7.58 m 3H 7.20 d J 8.3 Hz 1H 6.48 d half of AB quartet J 2.4 Hz 1H 6.44 dd half of ABX pattern J 8.3 2.4 Hz 1H 5.74 s 1H 4.21 br s 2H 3.94 br s 2H 3.84 s 3H 3.81 s 3H 3.7 3.8 m 1H 3.23 dd J 13 4 Hz 1H 2.95 3.06 m 1H 2.52 2.62 m 1H 1.80 1.95 m 1H 1.6 1.69 m 1H assumed partially obscured by water peak 1.28 d J 6.0 Hz 3H .

2 4 6 Tripropyl 1 3 5 2 4 6 trioxatriphosphinane 2 4 6 trioxide 50 solution by weight in ethyl acetate 88.4 mL 148 mmol was added to a mixture of C38 12.1 g 59.6 mmol and triethylamine 20.6 mL 148 mmol in ethyl acetate 80 mL and the reaction mixture was heated at 65 C. for 20 minutes. Compound C39 20.0 g 37.1 mmol was introduced and stirring was continued at 65 C. for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was then cooled to room temperature and diluted with ethyl acetate 100 mL the resulting solution was washed sequentially with water 2 150 mL saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 250 mL and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 250 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting solid was dissolved in dichloromethane 1.5 L and treated with trifluoroacetic acid 140 mL the reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 16 hours whereupon it was basified to pH 8 with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 1 L . The aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 2 250 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 1 L dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified using chromatography on silica gel Gradient 0 to 5 methanol in dichloromethane to afford a solid 24 g which was triturated with ethyl acetate 100 mL to provide the product as a white solid 21.3 g . By H NMR analysis this material contained ethyl acetate. Yield corrected for solvent 19.3 g 33.6 mmol 91 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.62 s 1H 8.34 br d J 2.6 Hz 1H 8.00 8.26 v br s 2H 7.75 s 1H 7.51 7.58 m 1H 7.41 7.51 m 3H 6.64 t J 72.1 Hz 1H 3.93 4.02 m 2H 3.74 3.84 m 1H 3.20 br dd J 13 4 Hz 1H 3.00 3.10 m 1H 2.84 s 3H 2.61 br dd J 13 2.6 Hz 1H 1.84 1.98 m 1H 1.64 1.72 m 1H 1.31 d J 6.1 Hz 3H .

A solution of C40 21.0 g 36.6 mmol in xylenes 110 mL was placed in a pressure tube and treated with SiliCycle SiliaMetS diamine 70.0 g 110 mmol the tube was sealed and stirred at room temperature for 5 minutes before being placed in a 135 C. oil bath. After stirring for 16 hours the reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature over 20 minutes. Dichloromethane 10 mL was added and the mixture was filtered through diatomaceous earth followed by rinsing of the filter pad with dichloromethane 3 100 mL . Concentration of the combined filtrates under reduced pressure provided a clear oil which was seeded with a crystal of the product. The mixture immediately became heterogeneous and the solid was collected via filtration washed with toluene 2 25 mL and stirred in diethyl ether 100 mL for 30 minutes. Filtration and washing of the collected solid with cold diethyl ether 2 100 mL afforded the product as a white solid 12.8 g . The combined filtrates were concentrated in vacuo and the residue was filtered the isolated solid was stirred with diethyl ether 50 mL for 30 minutes then filtered and washed with cold diethyl ether 2 100 mL . This provided additional product as an off white solid 3.3 g . Combined yield 16.1 g 34.3 mmol 94 . LCMS m z 470.5 M H . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 10.57 br s 1H 8.32 br d J 2 Hz 1H 7.68 s 1H 7.42 br d J 2 Hz 1H 6.63 t J 72.2 Hz 1H 4.51 4.59 br s 2H 3.91 AB quartet J 11.0 Hz 32.5 Hz 2H 3.70 3.80 m 1H 3.18 dd J 12.5 4.0 Hz 1H 2.84 s 3H 2.80 2.88 m 1H 2.59 dd J 12.6 2.8 Hz 1H 1.75 1.86 m 1H 1.54 ddd J 13 4 2 Hz 1H 1.29 d J 6.2 Hz 3H .

A sample of Example 45 94.0 mg 0.200 mmol was mixed with propan 2 yl acetate 1.0 mL and heated to 55 C. The fine suspension was stirred at 55 C. to 60 C. for 2 hours then allowed to cool to room temperature and stir for 1 hour. Filtration followed by washing of the filter cake with propan 2 yl acetate provided Example 45 as an off white solid. This material was crystalline by powder X ray diffraction analysis. Yield 60 mg 0.13 mmol 64 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 10.81 s 1H 8.42 d J 2.2 Hz 1H 7.72 d J 2 Hz 1H 7.62 s 1H 7.44 t J 73.0 Hz 1H 6.25 br s 2H 3.68 s 2H 3.57 3.66 m 1H 2.85 2.94 m 1H 2.60 2.70 m 5H 1.49 1.66 m 2H 1.14 d J 6.0 Hz 3H .

A solution of P2 25.2 mg 64.9 mol in ethyl acetate 0.5 mL was added to the appropriate carboxylic acid 78 mol . 2 4 6 Tripropyl 1 3 5 2 4 6 trioxatriphosphinane 2 4 6 trioxide 50 weight solution in ethyl acetate 0.26 mL 0.13 mmol and pyridine 21 uL 0.26 mmol were added and the reaction mixture was shaken at room temperature for 16 hours. It was then partitioned between water 1.5 mL and ethyl acetate 2.4 mL with vortexing. The organic layer was passed through a solid phase extraction cartridge 6 mL charged with sodium sulfate 1 g this extraction procedure was repeated twice. The combined eluents were concentrated in vacuo dissolved in ethanol 0.75 mL treated with hydrazine monohydrate 51 L 1.0 mmol and shaken at room temperature for 6 hours. After removal of solvent in vacuo the product was purified via reversed phase HPLC using one of the following methods 1 Column Waters XBridge C18 5 m Mobile phase A 0.03 ammonium hydroxide in water v v Mobile phase B 0.03 ammonium hydroxide in acetonitrile v v Gradient 5 or 10 to 100 B. 2 Waters Sunfire C18 5 m Mobile phase A 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid in water v v Mobile phase B 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid in acetonitrile v v Gradient 5 to 100 B.

A solution of P2 46.6 mg 0.120 mmol in ethyl acetate 1.5 mL was added to the appropriate carboxylic acid 0.12 mmol and the mixture was cooled in a dry ice box. Triethylamine 70 L 0.50 mmol and 2 4 6 tripropyl 1 3 5 2 4 6 trioxatriphosphinane 2 4 6 trioxide 50 weight solution in ethyl acetate 0.14 mL 0.24 mmol were added and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to ambient temperature then shaken at room temperature for 3 to 6 hours. It was then partitioned between half saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 1.5 mL and ethyl acetate 2.4 mL with vortexing. The organic layer was passed through a solid phase extraction cartridge 6 mL charged with sodium sulfate 1 g this extraction procedure was repeated twice. The combined eluents were concentrated in vacuo dissolved in ethanol 0.5 mL treated with a solution of methylamine in ethanol 33 by weight 0.5 mL 4 mmol and shaken at room temperature for 3 hours. After removal of solvent in vacuo the product was purified via reversed phase HPLC Column Waters XBridge C18 5 m Mobile phase A 0.03 ammonium hydroxide in water v v Mobile phase B 0.03 ammonium hydroxide in acetonitrile v v Gradient 5 to 40 or 100 B .

Beta secretase BACE is one of the enzymes involved in the generation of the amyloid beta peptide found in the amyloid plaques of Alzheimer s Disease patients. This assay measures the inhibition of the beta secretase enzyme as it cleaves a non native peptide.

A synthetic APP substrate that can be cleaved by beta secretase having N term inal biotin and made fluorescent by the covalent attachment of Oregon Green at the Cys residue is used to assay beta secretase activity in the presence or absence of the inhibitory compounds. The substrate is Biotin GLTNIKTEEISEISYAEVEFR C Oregon Green KK OH. The BACE1 enzyme is affinity purified material from conditioned media of CHO K1 cells that have been transfected with a soluble BACE construct BACE1deltaTM96His . Compounds are incubated in a log dose response curve from a top concentration of 100 M with BACE1 enzyme and the biotinylated fluorescent peptide in 384 well black plates Thermo Scientific 4318 . BACE1 is at a final concentration of 0.1 nM with a final concentration of peptide substrate of 150 nM in a reaction volume of 30 L assay buffer 100 mM sodium acetate pH 4.5 brought to pH with acetic acid and 0.001 Tween 20 . Plates are covered and incubated for 3 hours at 37 C. The reaction is stopped with the addition of 30 L of 1.5 M Streptavidin Pierce 21125 . After a 10 minute incubation at room temperature plates are read on a PerkinElmer EnVision for fluorescence polarization Ex485 nm Em530 nm . The activity of the beta secretase enzyme is detected by changes in the fluorescence polarization that occur when the substrate is cleaved by the enzyme. Incubation in the presence of compound inhibitor demonstrates specific inhibition of beta secretase enzymatic cleavage of the synthetic APP substrate.

The following biological assays were used to generate the biological data as provided in Tables 4 6 provided hereinbelow.

Beta secretase BACE is one of the enzymes involved in the generation of the amyloid beta peptide found in the amyloid plaques of Alzheimer s Disease patients. This assay measures the inhibition of the beta secretase enzyme as it cleaves a non native peptide.

A synthetic APP substrate that can be cleaved by beta secretase having N term inal biotin and made fluorescent by the covalent attachment of Oregon Green at the Cys residue is used to assay beta secretase activity in the presence or absence of the inhibitory compounds. The substrate is Biotin GLTNIKTEEISEISYAEVEFR C Oregon Green KK OH. The BACE1 enzyme is affinity purified material from conditioned media of CHO K1 cells that have been transfected with a soluble BACE construct BACE1deltaTM96His . Compounds are incubated in a log dose response curve from a top concentration of 100 M with BACE1 enzyme and the biotinylated fluorescent peptide in 384 well black plates Thermo Scientific 4318 . BACE1 is at a final concentration of 0.1 nM with a final concentration of peptide substrate of 150 nM in a reaction volume of 30 L assay buffer 100 mM sodium acetate pH 4.5 brought to pH with acetic acid and 0.001 Tween 20 . Plates are covered and incubated for 3 hours at 37 C. The reaction is stopped with the addition of 30 L of 1.5 M Streptavidin Pierce 21125 . After a 10 minute incubation at room temperature plates are read on a PerkinElmer EnVision for fluorescence polarization Ex485 nm Em530 nm . The activity of the beta secretase enzyme is detected by changes in the fluorescence polarization that occur when the substrate is cleaved by the enzyme. Incubation in the presence of compound inhibitor demonstrates specific inhibition of beta secretase enzymatic cleavage of the synthetic APP substrate.

sAPP the primary cleavage product of BACE1 was determined in H4 human neuroglioma cells over expressing the wild type human APP. Cells were treated for 18 h with compound in a final concentration of 1 DMSO. sAPP levels were measured by ELISA with a capture APP N terminal antibody Affinity BioReagents OMA1 03132 wild type sAPP specific reporter antibody p192 Elan and tertiary anti rabbit HRP GE Healthcare . The colorimetric reaction was read by an EnVision PerkinElmer plate reader.

The BACE1 and BACE2 binding assays measured beta site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme BACE binding as a decrease in the counts of radioligand bound in a scintillation proximity assay SPA . Utilizing a radiolabeled small molecule BACE active site binding inhibitor and crude HEK cell membrane preparations over expressing full length BACE1 or BACE2 the binding of enzyme by test compound was monitored as a reduction of specific counts bound at pH 6.0. Full length human BACE1 or BACE2 over expressed in HEK cells was prepared by Pfizer scientists. Frozen stock cell paste was reacted in 50 mM sodium acetate buffer pH 6.0 containing 3H 4aR 6R 8aS 8a 2 4 difluorophenyl 6 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl 4 4a 5 6 8 8a hexahydropyrano 3 4 d 1 3 thiazin 2 amine ligand SPA bead and 60 M to 600 pM of test compound in an assay volume of 27 uL. The compound plate also contained positive BACE inhibitor and negative DMSO control wells. The binding was carried out at room temperature for 30 minutes and then the plates were read on a TriLux Microbeta reader to determine the number of counts bound. The raw data was converted to percent effect compared to positive and negative control wells and the compound concentrations and effect values for tested compounds were plotted to determine the 50 effect IC50 with a four parameter logistic dose response equation.

Standard marker activity substrates are incubated with pooled human liver microsomes HL MIX 102 in the presence of NADPH 1.2 mM in 100 mM KHPO pH 7.4 containing 3.3 mM MgClat 37 C. The incubation volume is 0.1 mL utilizing a 384 well plate format. The microsomal protein concentrations 0.1 mg mL and P450 concentration 0.035 M was used for each probe substrate at the following concentrations tacrine 1A2 2 uM diclofenac 2C9 5 M dextromethorphan 2D6 5 M midazolam 3A4 2 M taxol 2C8 5 M S mephenytoin 2C19 40 M . Substrate concentrations are near Kvalues that had been previously determined and incubation times are selected based on determinations of reaction velocity linearity. Each test compound prototypical inhibitors are tested at a concentration range of 0 30 M in triplicate in final vehicle solvent concentrations of 0.9 acetonitrile and 0.1 DMSO. Incubations are initiated with the addition of NADPH. At the end of the incubation period termination solvent containing internal standard is added the terminated incubation mixture is centrifuged to precipitate microsomal protein. Samples are directly injected on an HPLC MS MS system. A Biomek FX workstation is used for liquid handling and sample incubation.

MDR1 Efflux Ratio MDR Er from MDR1 transfected MDCK line cell line represents the ratio of permeability Papp BA AB. Procedure utilized from Feng B. Mills J. B. Davidson R. E. Mireles R. J. Janiszewski J. S. Troutman M. D. de Morais S. M. In vitro P glycoprotein assays to predict the in vivo interactions of P glycoprotein with drugs in the central nervous system. 2008 36 268 275.

All testing was carried out in CHO cells transfected with the hERG gene purchased from Millipore PrecisION hERG CHO Recombinant Cell Line CYL3038 . The cell line was grown in DMEM F 12 GlutaMAX with 10 fetal bovine serum 1 Penicillin Streptomycin 1 Geneticin and 1 of 1M HEPES buffer solution and maintained at approximately 37 C. in a humidified atmosphere containing 5 carbon dioxide. The cells were passaged every 3 5 days based on confluency. On the day of the experiment 50 80 confluent cells were harvested from a 175 cmculture flask using Detachin . After 10 minutes of exposure to Detachin at 37 C. the cells were centrifuged for 1 minute at 1000 RPM. The supernatant was removed and the cell pellet was reconstituted in 5 8 mL of serum free media with 2.5 of 1M HEPES placed on the Qstirrer and allowed to recover. After a 30 minute recovery period experiments were initiated.

hERG current was elicited and recorded using the automated Qpatch HT system.The suspended cells in the Qstirrer were transferred to 48 individual recording chambers on a Qplate 48 containing extracellular recording saline composed of in M 132 NaCl 4 KCl 1.8 CaCl 1.2 MgCl 10 HEPES 11.1 Glucose and adjusted to pH 7.35 0.1 with NaOH. The intracellular recording saline was composed of in M 70 KF 60 KCl 15 NaCl 5 EGTA 5 HEPES and adjusted to pH 7.2 0.1 with KOH. Membrane currents were recorded at room temperature. hERG current was elicited from a holding potential of 80 mV with a voltage step to 30 mV for 1 second followed by a ramp back to 80 mV at 0.55 mV ms. Test pulses were delivered at a frequency of 0.25 Hz. Up to 4 different concentrations were studied on each cell each exposure lasting 5 minutes or until steady state effects were observed. In a separate set of experiments full concentration response relationships were determined for the positive control Cisapride and an ICwas reported in this study. Using Sophion Qpatch Assay Software the amplitude of the peak outward hERG current upon repolarizing ramp was measured. Current amplitude was determined by taking the average of the last 5 current peaks under each treatment condition. Percent inhibition was determined by taking the ratio of the current measured at steady state in the presence of test article I versus the control current I and expressed as inhibition 100 l l 100. When possible a concentration response curve was plotted and the data were fitted using Qpatch software to determine an IC. The P

The test compound 10 M in DMSO was incubated with L glutathione 50 mM prepared in 100 mM potassium phosphate buffer at 37 C. for 4 hours and then analyzed by HPLC UV MS MS without work up. Thermo Accela HPLC and Velos Pro Orbitrap Elite S N SN05189B operating in positive mode with a source voltage of 3.5 kV with data dependant processing. HPLC with a Phenomenox Kinetex C 1.7 M 2.1 100 mm. column P N 00D 4475 AN 5 acetonitrile 95 0.1 formic acid for 0.5 min then a 7.0 min linear gradient to 40 acetonitrile 60 0.1 formic acid 400 L min. column temperature 45 C. Product assignments were based on high resolution mass spectrometer fragmentation.

Tables 4 6 below provide biological data for the compounds of examples 1 2 7 and 45 as well as comparator compounds 1 7. Comparator compounds 1 3 are novel compounds whereas comparator compounds 4 7 are the compounds of examples 58 64 42 and 6 of U.S. Pat. No. 8 198 269 and can be prepared as described therein.

Table 4 below provides BACE1 Cell Free IC sAPP Whole Cell ICand BACE2 BACE1 Binding Ratio data for the compounds of Examples 1 2 7 and 45 and Comparators 1 7 whose structures are provided below. The data was obtained using the BACE1 Cell Free sAPP Whole Cell and BACE2 BACE1 Ratio assays as described hereinabove.

The accumulation and aggregation of amyloid A peptides is believed to be one of the underlying causes of Alzheimer s disease AD which is the most common reason for cognitive decline in the elderly.AD pathology is characterized by the presence of extracellular plaques in the hippocampal and cortical regions of the brain accompanied by intraneuronal neurofibrillary tangles and extensive neuronal loss.A the major protein constituent of amyloid plaques is derived from sequential cleavage of the type I integral membrane protein amyloid precursor protein APP by two proteases BACE1 and secretase.Proteolytic cleavage of APP by BACE1 a member of the aspartyl protease family of enzymes takes place within the endosome at low pH generating a soluble N terminal ectodomain of APP sAPP and C terminal fragment C99 .Subsequent cleavage of the membrane bound C99 fragment by secretase liberates the various A peptide species of which A and A are the predominant forms.The determination of BACE1 potency in a cell free fluorescence polarization assay BACE1 Cell Free and whole cell assay BACE1 WCA in H4 human neuorglioma cells measuring sAPP is shown in Table 4. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that different assay formats are available to measure the inhibition of BACE1. One skilled in the art will appreciate that acceptable potency for inhibiting BACE1 for a viable drug candidate is typically less than 100 nM in both a cell free and whole cell assays. Surprisingly there was a significant difference between the thiazole containing compounds with respect to the regioisomeric position of the amide linker. For example the compounds of examples 1 2 7 and 45 display potent BACE1 inhibition while Comparator 1 is surprisingly and unexpectedly 1000 fold less active at BACE1 clearly showing the criticality that the position of the amide substitution on the thiazole has on the BACE1 potency of the compounds.

Selectivity for BACE1 inhibitors against related aspartyl proteases is an important factor for determining the potential safety for a viable drug candidate.The related aspartyl protease BACE2 has recently been reported to impact pigmentation in cellular and in vivo models. For example BACE2 processes pigment cell specific melanocyte protein PMEL which is believed to play a role in melanogenesis.The selectivity ratio for BACE2 to BACE1 inhibition was determined using a ratio of IC50 from respective binding assays as shown in Table 4. Surprisingly there was a significant improvement in selectivity for BACE1 over BACE2 for examples 1 2 and 45 relative to comparator compounds 4 through 7 which are the compounds of examples 58 64 42 and 6 from U.S. Pat. No. 8 198 269. Those skilled in the art will appreciate the potential impact of selectivity over BACE2 with respect to skin pigmentation changes in human clinical trials.

Table 5 below provides HLM Clint CYP2D6 ICand observed glutathione GSH adduct data for the compounds of examples 1 2 7 and 45 and comparators 1 7 whose structures are provided below. The data was obtained using the General Multi Point Cocktail DDI ICand GSH incubation assays as described hereinabove.

The hepatic clearance of BACE1 inhibitors is an important consideration for the selection of viable drug candidates. Those skilled in the art will appreciate the negative impact of higher clearance compounds on projected human dose and dosing regimen in human. In general compounds with low clearance CLint15 mL min kg . From the data presented above it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the compounds of examples 1 2 7 and 45 each possess an advantageously low hepatic clearance profile with a Clint

The inhibition of CYP P450s increases the risk for clinical drug drug interactions DDIs . For example inhibition of CYP2D6 is of particular concern due to the potential for victim based DDIs and variable clinical exposure due to polymorphic nature of this enzyme.Those skilled in the art will appreciate the desire to eliminate the potential to inhibit CYP2D6 in a viable clinical candidate. As shown in Table 5 examples 1 2 7 and 45 display IC50s 30 M for inhibiting CYP2D6 relative to comparators 2 3 and comparators 4 6 and 7 the compounds of examples 58 42 and 6 from U.S. Pat. No. 8 198 269 which display IC50s

The potential clinical hepatotoxicity or drug induced liver injury DILI is one of the major reasons for the withdrawal of compounds from the market.Those skilled in the art will appreciate that bioactivation or covalent binding of compounds to proteins is a potential mechanism for hepatoxicity. A common assay for understanding the impact of covalent binding is to monitor for the formation of glutathione GSH adducts. For examples 1 2 7 and 45 in Table 5 the formation of GSH adducts was not detected following incubations. This is advantageous as it indicates that the compounds of examples 1 2 7 and 45 are not compounds which would lead to the potential for a glutathione adduct induced mechanism of hepatotoxicity. However incubation of comparator 5 example 64 from U.S. Pat. No. 8 198 269 in human liver microsomes in the presence of GSH showed the formation of chemical adducts which has the potential to lead to DILI.

Table 6 below provides hERG IC Pgp liability MDR1 Er and pKa data as well as an indication of an aniline structural alert and for the compounds of examples 1 2 7 and 45 and comparators 1 7 whose structures are provided below. The hERG IC50 and Pgp liability MDR1 Er data was obtained using the hERG and Pgp liability MDR1 Er assays as described hereinabove.

Understanding potential cardiovascular risks such as QT prolongation as a result of inhibition of hERG human ether a go go is an important factor in selecting compounds for clinical development.Those skilled in the art will appreciate that a compound with appropriate cardiovascular safety margins is relative to the targeted plasma concentrations in human. In addition an important factor in reducing the targeted plasma concentration is optimizing brain penetration by reducing activity against efflux transporters located at the blood brain barrier such as P glycoprotein Pgp .Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the potential for CNS penetration can be assessed in vitro by determining whether a compound can be subjected to Pgp efflux and that compounds can be assessed using various known in vitro Pgp assays. One such in vitro assay is the Pgp MDR1 Er assay described above. In general compounds with low efflux potential Er5 M . Examples 1 2 7 and 45 in Table 6 advantageously show both weak inhibition of the hERG channel hERG IC50 5 M as well as low Pgp efflux potential MDR1 Er

Those skilled in the art will appreciate the impact of a highly basic pKon activity at the hERG channel P gp transporters and inhibition of CYP2D6.Surprisingly the thiazole group present in examples 1 2 7 and 45 significantly lowers the pKa of these compounds relative to comparators 2 7 as shown in Table 6. This result was unexpected based on the increase in pKa 8.7 for the pyridine containing compound comparator 2.

Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that structural alerts may be associated with idiosyncratic adverse drug reactions IADRs . For example compounds containing an aniline structural alert have been withdrawn from commercial use or have received a black box warning for an IADR.Those skilled in the art will appreciate that predicting IADR is challenging but a key consideration to avoiding a potential IADR is to remove structural alerts from viable clinical candidates. Examples 58 42 and 6 from U.S. Pat. No. 8 198 269 each have an aniline structural alert.

