---

title: Trace pattern for touch-sensing application
abstract: One embodiment of a capacitive sensor array comprises a plurality of row sensor elements including a first row sensor element, a plurality of column sensor elements including a first column sensor element, and a plurality of unit cells, wherein a first unit cell contains an intersection between the first row sensor element and the first column sensor element, and wherein a ratio between 1) a boundary length between the first row sensor element and the first column sensor element within the first unit cell and 2) a perimeter of the first unit cell is greater than √{square root over (2)}/2.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09529485&OS=09529485&RS=09529485
owner: Creator Technology B.V.
number: 09529485
owner_city: Tilburg
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20160203
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 008 014 filed Jan. 18 2011 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 295 599 filed on Jan. 15 2010 both of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

This disclosure relates to the field of touch sensors and in particular to trace patterns of elements in capacitive touch sensor arrays.

Computing devices such as notebook computers personal data assistants PDAs kiosks and mobile handsets have user interface devices which are also known as human interface devices HID . One user interface device that has become more common is a touch sensor pad also commonly referred to as a touchpad . A basic notebook computer touch sensor pad emulates the function of a personal computer PC mouse. A touch sensor pad is typically embedded into a PC notebook for built in portability. A touch sensor pad replicates mouse X Y movement by using two defined axes which contain a collection of sensor elements that detect the position of one or more conductive objects such as a finger. Mouse right left button clicks can be replicated by two mechanical buttons located in the vicinity of the touchpad or by tapping commands on the touch sensor pad itself. The touch sensor pad provides a user interface device for performing such functions as positioning a pointer or selecting an item on a display. These touch sensor pads may include multi dimensional sensor arrays for detecting movement in multiple axes. The sensor array may include a one dimensional sensor array detecting movement in one axis. The sensor array may also be two dimensional detecting movements in two axes.

Another user interface device that has become more common is a touch screen. Touch screens also known as touchscreens touch windows touch panels or touchscreen panels are transparent display overlays which are typically either pressure sensitive resistive or piezoelectric electrically sensitive capacitive acoustically sensitive surface acoustic wave SAW or photo sensitive infra red . The effect of such overlays allows a display to be used as an input device removing the keyboard and or the mouse as the primary input device for interacting with the display s content. Such displays can be attached to computers or as terminals to networks. Touch screens have become familiar in retail settings on point of sale systems on ATMs on mobile handsets on kiosks on game consoles and on PDAs where a stylus is sometimes used to manipulate the graphical user interface GUI and to enter data. A user can touch a touch screen or a touch sensor pad to manipulate data. For example a user can apply a single touch by using a finger to touch the surface of a touch screen to select an item from a menu.

The following description sets forth numerous specific details such as examples of specific systems components methods and so forth in order to provide a good understanding of several embodiments of the present invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art however that at least some embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known components or methods are not described in detail or are presented in a simple block diagram format in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention. Thus the specific details set forth are merely exemplary. Particular implementations may vary from these exemplary details and still be contemplated to be within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

Described herein is method and apparatus for detecting one or more contact locations at a touch sensing surface including a capacitive sensor array. In one embodiment a capacitive sensing system may be used to perform mutual capacitance measurements between sensor elements in the capacitive sensor array. An embodiment of a capacitive sensor array having a greater mutual capacitance between sensor elements and smaller self capacitance for each of the individual sensor elements than a conventional capacitive sensor array may be used to decrease signal disparity in the resulting signal.

In one embodiment a mutual capacitance between two sensor elements may be increased by maximizing a boundary length between the adjacent edges of the sensor elements. Additionally the self capacitance of each individual sensor element may be decreased by minimizing the area of the sensor element.

In one embodiment the sensor array includes sensor elements N where N is a positive integer that are disposed as a two dimensional matrix also referred to as an XY matrix . The sensor array is coupled to pins N of the processing device via one or more analog buses transporting multiple signals. In this embodiment each sensor element N is represented as a capacitor.

In one embodiment the capacitance sensor may include a relaxation oscillator or other means to convert a capacitance into a measured value. The capacitance sensor may also include a counter or timer to measure the oscillator output. The capacitance sensor may further include software components to convert the count value e.g. capacitance value into a sensor element detection decision also referred to as switch detection decision or relative magnitude. It should be noted that there are various known methods for measuring capacitance such as current versus voltage phase shift measurement resistor capacitor charge timing capacitive bridge divider charge transfer successive approximation sigma delta modulators charge accumulation circuits field effect mutual capacitance frequency shift or other capacitance measurement algorithms. It should be noted however instead of evaluating the raw counts relative to a threshold the capacitance sensor may be evaluating other measurements to determine the user interaction. For example in the capacitance sensor having a sigma delta modulator the capacitance sensor is evaluating the ratio of pulse widths of the output instead of the raw counts being over or under a certain threshold.

In one embodiment the processing device further includes processing logic . Operations of the processing logic may be implemented in firmware alternatively it may be implemented in hardware or software. The processing logic may receive signals from the capacitance sensor and determine the state of the sensor array such as whether an object e.g. a finger is detected on or in proximity to the sensor array e.g. determining the presence of the object where the object is detected on the sensor array e.g. determining the location of the object tracking the motion of the object or other information related to an object detected at the touch sensor.

In another embodiment instead of performing the operations of the processing logic in the processing device the processing device may send the raw data or partially processed data to the host . The host as illustrated in may include decision logic that performs some or all of the operations of the processing logic . Operations of the decision logic may be implemented in firmware hardware software or a combination thereof. The host may include a high level Application Programming Interface API in applications that perform routines on the received data such as compensating for sensitivity differences other compensation algorithms baseline update routines start up and or initialization routines interpolation operations or scaling operations. The operations described with respect to the processing logic may be implemented in the decision logic the applications or in other hardware software and or firmware external to the processing device . In some other embodiments the processing device is the host .

In another embodiment the processing device may also include a non sensing actions block . This block may be used to process and or receive transmit data to and from the host . For example additional components may be implemented to operate with the processing device along with the sensor array e.g. keyboard keypad mouse trackball LEDs displays or other peripheral devices .

The processing device may reside on a common carrier substrate such as for example an integrated circuit IC die substrate or a multi chip module substrate. Alternatively the components of the processing device may be one or more separate integrated circuits and or discrete components. In one embodiment the processing device may be the Programmable System on a Chip PSoC processing device developed by Cypress Semiconductor Corporation San Jose Calif. Alternatively the processing device may be one or more other processing devices known by those of ordinary skill in the art such as a microprocessor or central processing unit a controller special purpose processor digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable device. In an alternative embodiment for example the processing device may be a network processor having multiple processors including a core unit and multiple micro engines. Additionally the processing device may include any combination of general purpose processing device s and special purpose processing device s .

In one embodiment the electronic system is implemented in a device that includes the touch sensing surface as the user interface such as handheld electronics portable telephones cellular telephones notebook computers personal computers personal data assistants PDAs kiosks keyboards televisions remote controls monitors handheld multi media devices handheld video players gaming devices control panels of a household or industrial appliances or other computer peripheral or input devices. Alternatively the electronic system may be used in other types of devices. It should be noted that the components of electronic system may include all the components described above. Alternatively electronic system may include only some of the components described above or include additional components not listed herein.

Capacitance sensor includes multiplexer control demultiplexer and multiplexer clock generator signal generator demodulation circuit and analog to digital converter ADC . ADC is further coupled with touch coordinate converter . Touch coordinate converter outputs a signal to the processing logic .

The transmit and receive electrodes in the electrode matrix may be arranged so that each of the transmit electrodes overlap and cross each of the receive electrodes such as to form an array of intersections while maintaining galvanic isolation from each other. Thus each transmit electrode may be capacitively coupled with each of the receive electrodes. For example transmit electrode is capacitively coupled with receive electrode at the point where transmit electrode and receive electrode overlap.

Clock generator supplies a clock signal to signal generator which produces a TX signal to be supplied to the transmit electrodes of touch sensor . In one embodiment the signal generator includes a set of switches that operate according to the clock signal from clock generator . The switches may generate a TX signal by periodically connecting the output of signal generator to a first voltage and then to a second voltage wherein said first and second voltages are different.

The output of signal generator is connected with demultiplexer which allows the TX signal to be applied to any of the M transmit electrodes of touch sensor . In one embodiment multiplexer control controls demultiplexer so that the TX signal is applied to each transmit electrode in a controlled sequence. Demultiplexer may also be used to ground float or connect an alternate signal to the other transmit electrodes to which the TX signal is not currently being applied.

Because of the capacitive coupling between the transmit and receive electrodes the TX signal applied to each transmit electrode induces a current within each of the receive electrodes. For instance when the TX signal is applied to transmit electrode through demultiplexer the TX signal induces an RX signal on the receive electrodes in matrix . The RX signal on each of the receive electrodes can then be measured in sequence by using multiplexer to connect each of the N receive electrodes to demodulation circuit in sequence.

The mutual capacitance associated with each intersection between a TX electrode and an RX electrode can be sensed by selecting every available combination of TX electrode and an RX electrode using demultiplexer and multiplexer . To improve performance multiplexer may also be segmented to allow more than one of the receive electrodes in matrix to be routed to additional demodulation circuits . In an optimized configuration wherein there is a 1 to 1 correspondence of instances of demodulation circuit with receive electrodes multiplexer may not be present in the system.

When an object such as a finger approaches the electrode matrix the object causes a decrease in the mutual capacitance between only some of the electrodes. For example if a finger is placed near the intersection of transmit electrode and receive electrode the presence of the finger will decrease the mutual capacitance between electrodes and . Thus the location of the finger on the touchpad can be determined by identifying the one or more receive electrodes having a decreased mutual capacitance in addition to identifying the transmit electrode to which the TX signal was applied at the time the decreased mutual capacitance was measured on the one or more receive electrodes.

By determining the mutual capacitances associated with each intersection of electrodes in the matrix the locations of one or more touch contacts may be determined. The determination may be sequential in parallel or may occur more frequently at commonly used electrodes.

In alternative embodiments other methods for detecting the presence of a finger or conductive object may be used where the finger or conductive object causes an increase in capacitance at one or more electrodes which may be arranged in a grid or other pattern. For example a finger placed near an electrode of a capacitive sensor may introduce an additional capacitance to ground that increases the total capacitance between the electrode and ground. The location of the finger can be determined from the locations of one or more electrodes at which an increased capacitance is detected.

The induced current signal is rectified by demodulation circuit . The rectified current output by demodulation circuit can then be filtered and converted to a digital code by ADC .

The digital code is converted to touch coordinates indicating a position of an input on touch sensor array by touch coordinate converter . The touch coordinates are transmitted as an input signal to the processing logic . In one embodiment the input signal is received at an input to the processing logic . In one embodiment the input may be configured to receive capacitance measurements indicating a plurality of row coordinates and a plurality of column coordinates. Alternatively the input may be configured to receive row coordinates and column coordinates.

In one embodiment the sensor array can be configured to detect multiple touches. One technique for multi touch detection uses a two axis implementation one axis to support rows and another axis to support columns. Additional axes such as a diagonal axis implemented on the surface using additional layers can allow resolution of additional touches.

In one embodiment the processing device is connected to a host which may receive the measured capacitances or calculated centroid locations from the processing device .

In one embodiment the trace pattern formed by the sensor elements within a unit cell is substantially similar to a trace pattern formed by sensor elements in each of the other unit cells. In one embodiment the width of a unit cell may be approximately equal to the distance between corresponding features of adjacent unit cells. For example the width of unit cell may be approximately equal to the distance between intersection and an adjacent intersection such as the intersection between sensor element and . In one embodiment each unit cell is bounded by adjacent unit cells such that there are no gaps between unit cells. For example each unit cell may share its boundaries with unit cells associated with adjacent intersections.

As illustrated in the boundary length between row sensor element and column sensor element includes the lengths of segments and . Segments and mark the lengths of the edges of sensor element from which a straight line can be drawn to an edge of sensor element within unit cell without first crossing sensor element .

Since drawing the straight lines from a row sensor element to a column sensor element may result in a different boundary length than drawing the lines from the same column sensor element to the row sensor element the shorter of the two possible boundary lengths may be arbitrarily chosen as the total boundary length.

An alternative way to measure boundary length between a row sensor element and a column sensor element is to include all edge points of one sensor element that are within the unit cell and are also within a threshold distance from an edge of the other sensor element. For example if the threshold distance is a radius R the boundary length between row sensor element and column sensor element includes all the points on the edge of element and within unit cell that are less than the distance R from an edge of element . For example if R is slightly greater than the length of segment then the boundary length between sensor elements and includes the lengths of segments and since every point on the edges of sensor element corresponding to these segments is within the distance R from an edge of sensor element . In one embodiment R may be chosen so that the edges of the cutout areas such as cutout area are not included in the boundary length.

In one embodiment a ratio may be calculated between 1 the boundary length between the row sensor element and the column sensor element and 2 the perimeter of the unit cell . With regard to the perimeter of the unit cell may be calculated by summing the lengths of segments and while the boundary lengths may be calculated by summing the segments and . In one embodiment where the unit cell is a square each of the segments and measures 1 unit in length such that each of the segments and measures less than square root over 2 2 units in length. The total boundary length between the sensor elements and within unit cell is therefore less than 4 square root over 2 2 or 2 square root over 2 units in length. Since the perimeter of unit cell is equal to 4 units the ratio of the boundary length to the perimeter is less than 2 square root over 2 4 or square root over 2 2. Thus the ratio of the boundary length to the unit cell perimeter for a hollow diamond pattern as illustrated in is less than square root over 2 2.

As compared to the hollow diamond pattern of the capacitive sensor array a dual hollow Manhattan DHM rectangular pattern with subtraces and cutout areas may be used to increase the boundary length between the row and column sensor elements to achieve a ratio of boundary length to unit cell perimeter that is greater than square root over 2 2. In one embodiment this may result in a decrease of 20 or more in the signal disparity ratio.

The DHM pattern has an increased boundary ratio as compared to the hollow diamond pattern because the DHM pattern includes more edges of the row sensor element that are adjacent to edges of the column sensor element. The trace pattern within unit cell for example includes traces within the interior of the unit cell as well as near the edges of the unit cell . Each of the edges of the row sensor element within the unit cell contributes to the total boundary length except for the edges of the four larger cutout areas. Thus the ratio of boundary length to unit cell perimeter is greater than square root over 2 2 since assuming a similarly sized unit cell the sum of these lengths is greater than the sum of the segments and illustrated in .

The relationship between boundary length and area of the unit cell for a DHM pattern can also be described by the following Equation 1 

Within unit cell each of the subtraces of row sensor element branching from the main trace are followed by a corresponding subtrace of the column sensor element . In one embodiment the subtraces of the column sensor element may similarly branch from a main trace of the column sensor element . For example the subtrace branching from main trace of the row sensor element corresponds to the subtrace branching from the main trace of column sensor element . In one embodiment the subtraces and form an interlocking spiral thus increasing the boundary length between the subtraces and . Additional subtraces within the unit cell may be similarly patterned to further increase the boundary length between the row sensor element and column sensor element .

The quad spiral pattern increases the boundary length between the row and column sensor elements such that the ratio of 1 the boundary length within a unit cell to 2 the perimeter of the unit cell is greater than the same ratio for a hollow diamond pattern. Thus the ratio for the quad spiral pattern is greater than square root over 2 2. Similarly the ratio L Ais greater than 2 square root over 2 units.

The interleaved pattern increases the boundary length between the row and column sensor elements such that the ratio of 1 the boundary length within a unit cell to 2 the perimeter of the unit cell is greater than the same ratio for a hollow diamond pattern. Thus the ratio for the interleaved pattern is greater than square root over 2 2. Similarly the ratio L Ais greater than 24 units.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that in addition to the DHM quad spiral and interleaved patterns many other trace patterns may be used to increase the boundary length between row and column sensor elements of a capacitive sensor array without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Embodiments of such trace patterns may include features similar to those illustrated in such as row and column sensor elements with cutout areas corresponding parallel subtraces and thin traces filling the majority of each unit cell.

Embodiments of the present invention described herein include various operations. These operations may be performed by hardware components software firmware or a combination thereof. As used herein the term coupled to may mean coupled directly or indirectly through one or more intervening components. Any of the signals provided over various buses described herein may be time multiplexed with other signals and provided over one or more common buses. Additionally the interconnection between circuit components or blocks may be shown as buses or as single signal lines. Each of the buses may alternatively be one or more single signal lines and each of the single signal lines may alternatively be buses.

Certain embodiments may be implemented as a computer program product that may include instructions stored on a computer readable medium. These instructions may be used to program a general purpose or special purpose processor to perform the described operations. A computer readable medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form e.g. software processing application readable by a machine e.g. a computer . The computer readable storage medium may include but is not limited to magnetic storage medium e.g. floppy diskette optical storage medium e.g. CD ROM magneto optical storage medium read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable programmable memory e.g. EPROM and EEPROM flash memory or another type of medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.

Additionally some embodiments may be practiced in distributed computing environments where the computer readable medium is stored on and or executed by more than one computer system. In addition the information transferred between computer systems may either be pulled or pushed across the transmission medium connecting the computer systems.

Although the operations of the method s herein are shown and described in a particular order the order of the operations of each method may be altered so that certain operations may be performed in an inverse order or so that certain operation may be performed at least in part concurrently with other operations. In another embodiment instructions or sub operations of distinct operations may be in an intermittent and or alternating manner.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

