---

title: System and method for remote alert triggering
abstract: Systems and methods for triggering generation of an alert for delivery to a remote device are disclosed herein. The system can include memory having: a user profile database; and a content library database. The system can include a recipient user device and a supervisor device. The system can include a content management server that can: receive an electrical signal from the recipient user device, which electrical signal includes a request for initiation of a delivery sequence; trigger an incrementing timer based on receipt of the electrical signal; sequentially deliver the set of delivery data packets; automatically send a proposed time for communicatively coupling the recipient user and supervisor devices; and generate and send an alert.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09654175&OS=09654175&RS=09654175
owner: PEARSON EDUCATION, INC.
number: 09654175
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160226
---
A computer network or data network is a telecommunications network which allows computers to exchange data. In computer networks networked computing devices exchange data with each other along network links data connections . The connections between nodes are established using either cable media or wireless media. The best known computer network is the Internet.

Network computer devices that originate route and terminate the data are called network nodes. Nodes can include hosts such as personal computers phones servers as well as networking hardware. Two such devices can be said to be networked together when one device is able to exchange information with the other device whether or not they have a direct connection to each other.

Computer networks differ in the transmission media used to carry their signals the communications protocols to organize network traffic the network s size topology and organizational intent. In most cases communications protocols are layered on i.e. work using other more specific or more general communications protocols except for the physical layer that directly deals with the transmission media.

One aspect of the present disclosure relates to a system for triggering generation of an alert for delivery to a remote device. The system includes a memory. The memory can include a user profile database including information identifying one or several attributes of a recipient user and a content library database including a plurality of data packets for providing to the recipient user which data packets include a plurality of delivery data packets and a plurality of assessment data packets. The system can include a recipient user device including a network interface that can exchange data via a communication network and a recipient I O subsystem that can convert electrical signals to user interpretable outputs which recipient I O subsystem can generate a graphical user interface according to received data. The system can include a supervisor device including a network interface that can exchange data via the communication network and a supervisor I O subsystem that can convert electrical signals to user interpretable outputs user interface which supervisor I O subsystem can generate a graphical user interface according to received data. The system can include a content management server. The content management server can direct the generation of a placement interface in the graphical user interface by the recipient I O subsystem direct the generation of a presentation interface in the graphical user interface by the recipient I O subsystem which presentation interface is that can implement a delivery sequence. In some embodiments the delivery sequence includes delivering a set of delivery data packets to the recipient user device which set of delivery packets include a subset of the plurality of delivery packets and delivering an assessment data packet to the recipient user device. The content management server can direct the generation of a coupling interface at each of the recipient user device and the supervisor user device and generate and send an alert to the recipient user device and the supervisor device based on one or several electrical signals received from the recipient user device.

In some embodiments the supervisor device can receive the alert from the content management server and automatically provide alert data in user interpretable outputs via the I O subsystem in response to receipt of the alert. In some embodiments the alert data identifies the user associated with the alert and identifies a remedial action for resolving the cause of the alert. In some embodiments the content management server can trigger an incrementing timer compare the incrementing timer to a trigger value and generate and send the alert when the incrementing timer exceeds the trigger value.

In some embodiments the content management server can communicatively couple the recipient user device and the supervisor device. In some embodiments communicatively coupling the recipient user device and the supervisor device includes automatically sending a proposed time for communicatively coupling of the recipient user device and the supervisor device to the recipient user device receiving an acceptance signal of the proposed time for communicatively coupling the recipient user device and the supervisor device from the recipient user device and triggering a decrementing timer based on the receipt of the acceptance signal and the amount of time until the proposed time for communicatively coupling the recipient user device and the supervisor device. In some embodiments communicatively coupling the recipient user device and the supervisor device further includes receiving an indication of data transmission between the recipient user device and the supervisor device which indication includes a signal from at least one of the recipient user device and the supervisor device indicating communicative coupling.

In some embodiments the content management server can direct generation of a dashboard interface in the graphical user interface by the supervisor I O subsystem. In some embodiments the content management server can send information for updating the dashboard interface which information indicates the communicative coupling of the recipient user device and the supervisor device. In some embodiments the content management server can direct generation of an assessment interface in the graphical user interface by the recipient I O subsystem which assessment interface includes a plurality of user prompts and a plurality of user input regions. In some embodiments the content management server can send the assessment data packet to the recipient user device.

One aspect of the present disclosure relates to a method for triggering an alert for delivery to a remote device. The method includes generating and sending an electrical signal directing generation of a placement interface in a graphical user interface of a recipient user device by a recipient I O subsystem generating and sending an electrical signal directing the generation of a presentation interface in the graphical user interface of the recipient user device by the recipient I O subsystem which presentation interface can implement a delivery sequence which delivery sequence includes delivering a set of delivery data packets to the recipient user device which set of delivery packets include a subset of the plurality of delivery packets and delivering an assessment data packet to the recipient user device. In some embodiments the method includes generating and sending an electrical signal directing the generation of a coupling interface at each of the recipient user device and a supervisor user device and generating and sending an alert to the recipient user device and to the supervisor device based on one or several electrical signals received from the recipient user device.

In some embodiments the method includes receiving the alert from the content management server at the supervisor device and automatically providing alert data in user interpretable outputs via the I O subsystem in response to receipt of the alert. In some embodiments the alert data identifies the user associated with the alert and identifies a remedial action for resolving the cause of the alert.

In some embodiments the method includes triggering an incrementing timer comparing the incrementing timer to a trigger value and generating and sending the alert when the incrementing timer exceeds the trigger value. In some embodiments the method can include automatically sending a proposed time for communicatively coupling of the recipient user device and the supervisor device to the recipient user device receiving an acceptance signal of the proposed time for communicatively coupling the recipient user device and the supervisor device from the recipient user device and triggering a decrementing timer based on the receipt of the acceptance signal and the amount of time until the proposed time for communicatively coupling the recipient user device and the supervisor device.

In some embodiments the method can include receiving an indication of data transmission between the recipient user device and the supervisor device which indication includes a signal from at least one of the recipient user device and the supervisor device indicating communicative coupling. In some embodiments the method includes directing generation of an assessment interface in the graphical user interface by the recipient I O subsystem which assessment interface includes a plurality of user prompts and a plurality of user input regions. In some embodiments the method includes sending the assessment data packet to the recipient user device.

One aspect of the present disclosure relates to a system for triggering generation of an alert for delivery to a remote device. The system includes memory including a user profile database including information identifying one or several attributes of a recipient user and a content library database including a plurality of data packets for providing to the recipient user which data packets include a plurality of delivery data packets and a plurality of assessment data packets. The system includes a recipient user device including a network interface that can exchange data via a communication network and an I O subsystem that can convert electrical signals to user interpretable outputs user interface. The system includes a supervisor device including a network interface that can exchange data via the communication network and an I O subsystem that can convert electrical signals to user interpretable outputs user interface. The system includes a content management server. The content management server can receive an electrical signal from the recipient user device which electrical signal includes a request for initiation of a delivery sequence which delivery sequence includes delivering of a set of delivery data packets to the recipient user device which set of delivery packets include a subset of the plurality of delivery packets communicatively coupling of the recipient user device and the supervisor device and delivering an assessment data packet to the recipient user device. The content management server can trigger an incrementing timer based on receipt of the electrical signal from the recipient user device sequentially deliver the set of delivery data packets to the recipient user device receive a response from the recipient user device after delivery of each of the set of delivery data packets automatically send a proposed time for communicatively coupling the recipient user device and the supervisor device to the recipient user device receive an acceptance signal of the proposed time for communicatively coupling the recipient user device and the supervisor device from the recipient user device trigger a decrementing timer based on the receipt of the acceptance signal and the amount of time until the proposed time for communicatively coupling the recipient user device and the supervisor device compare the incrementing timer to a trigger value and generate and send an alert based on the comparison of the incrementing timer and the trigger value.

In some embodiments the supervisor device can receive the alert from the content management server and automatically provide alert data in user interpretable outputs via the I O subsystem in response to receipt of the alert. In some embodiments the alert data identifies the user associated with the alert and identifies a remedial action for resolving the cause of the alert. In some embodiments the alert is generated and sent when the timer exceeds the trigger value.

In some embodiments a next one of the set of delivery data packets is sequentially delivered after a response to a previously delivered one of the set of delivery data packets is received from the recipient user device. In some embodiments the central server can associate a value indicative of completion with each delivery data packet subsequent to receipt of the response to that delivery data packet. In some embodiments the content management server can update the user profile database with the value indicative of completion.

In some embodiments the content management server can generate and send a signal to the recipient user device and to the supervisor device directing the output of a representation of the decrementing timer. In some embodiments the content management server can generate and send a task packet to the recipient user device which task packet includes data identifying circumstances and a user action for the identified circumstances. In some embodiments the content management server can send the assessment data packet to the recipient user device. In some embodiments the recipient user device can generate an assessment interface in response to receipt of the assessment data packet which assessment interface includes a plurality of user prompts and a plurality of user input regions.

One aspect of the present disclosure relates to a method for triggering an alert for delivery to a remote device. The method includes receiving an electrical signal from a recipient user device which electrical signal includes a request for initiation of a delivery sequence which delivery sequence includes delivering of a set of delivery data packets to the recipient user device which set of delivery packets include a subset of a plurality of delivery packets communicatively coupling of the recipient user device and a supervisor device and delivering an assessment data packet to the recipient user device. The method can include triggering an incrementing timer based on receipt of the electrical signal from the recipient user device sequentially delivering the set of delivery data packets to the recipient user device receiving a response from the recipient user device after delivery of each of the set of delivery data packets automatically sending a proposed time for communicatively coupling the recipient user device and the supervisor device to the recipient user device receiving an acceptance signal of the proposed time for communicatively coupling the recipient user device and the supervisor device from the recipient user device triggering a decrementing timer based on the receipt of the acceptance signal and the amount of time until the proposed time for communicatively coupling the recipient user device and the supervisor device comparing the incrementing timer to a trigger value and generating and sending an alert based on the comparison of the incrementing timer and the trigger value.

In some embodiments the alert includes code to direct the supervisor device to provide an indicator of the received alert. In some embodiments the indicator of the received alert includes one of an aural indicator a tactile indicator and a visual indicator. In some embodiments the alert is generated and sent when the timer exceeds the trigger value. In some embodiments a next one of the set of delivery data packets is sequentially delivered after a response to a previously delivered one of the set of delivery data packets is received from the recipient user device.

In some embodiments the method can include associating a value indicative of completion with each delivery data packet subsequent to receipt of the response to that delivery data packet. In some embodiments the method can include generating and sending a signal to the recipient user device and to the supervisor device directing the output of a representation of the decrementing timer. In some embodiments the method can include generating and sending a task packet to the recipient user device which task packet includes data identifying circumstances and a user action for the identified circumstances. In some embodiments the method includes sending the assessment data packet to the recipient user device.

Further areas of applicability of the present disclosure will become apparent from the detailed description provided hereinafter. It should be understood that the detailed description and specific examples while indicating various embodiments are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to necessarily limit the scope of the disclosure

In the appended figures similar components and or features may have the same reference label. Further various components of the same type may be distinguished by following the reference label by a dash and a second label that distinguishes among the similar components. If only the first reference label is used in the specification the description is applicable to any one of the similar components having the same first reference label irrespective of the second reference label.

The ensuing description provides illustrative embodiment s only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the disclosure. Rather the ensuing description of the illustrative embodiment s will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing a preferred exemplary embodiment. It is understood that various changes can be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope as set forth in the appended claims.

With reference now to a block diagram is shown illustrating various components of a content distribution network CDN which implements and supports certain embodiments and features described herein. Content distribution network may include one or more content management servers . As discussed below in more detail content management servers may be any desired type of server including for example a rack server a tower server a miniature server a blade server a mini rack server a mobile server an ultra dense server a super server or the like and may include various hardware components for example a motherboard a processing units memory systems hard drives network interfaces power supplies etc. Content management server may include one or more server farms clusters or any other appropriate arrangement and or combination or computer servers. Content management server may act according to stored instructions located in a memory subsystem of the server and may run an operating system including any commercially available server operating system and or any other operating systems discussed herein.

The content distribution network may include one or more data store servers such as database servers and file based storage systems. The database servers can access data that can be stored on a variety of hardware components. These hardware components can include for example components forming tier 0 storage components forming tier 1 storage components forming tier 2 storage and or any other tier of storage. In some embodiments tier 0 storage refers to storage that is the fastest tier of storage in the database server and particularly the tier 0 storage is the fastest storage that is not RAM or cache memory. In some embodiments the tier 0 memory can be embodied in solid state memory such as for example a solid state drive SSD and or flash memory.

In some embodiments the tier 1 storage refers to storage that is one or several higher performing systems in the memory management system and that is relatively slower than tier 0 memory and relatively faster than other tiers of memory. The tier 1 memory can be one or several hard disks that can be for example high performance hard disks. These hard disks can be one or both of physically or communicatingly connected such as for example by one or several fiber channels. In some embodiments the one or several disks can be arranged into a disk storage system and specifically can be arranged into an enterprise class disk storage system. The disk storage system can include any desired level of redundancy to protect data stored therein and in one embodiment the disk storage system can be made with grid architecture that creates parallelism for uniform allocation of system resources and balanced data distribution.

In some embodiments the tier 2 storage refers to storage that includes one or several relatively lower performing systems in the memory management system as compared to the tier 1 and tier 2 storages. Thus tier 2 memory is relatively slower than tier 1 and tier 0 memories. Tier 2 memory can include one or several SATA drives or one or several NL SATA drives.

In some embodiments the one or several hardware and or software components of the database server can be arranged into one or several storage area networks SAN which one or several storage area networks can be one or several dedicated networks that provide access to data storage and particularly that provides access to consolidated block level data storage. A SAN typically has its own network of storage devices that are generally not accessible through the local area network LAN by other devices. The SAN allows access to these devices in a manner such that these devices appear to be locally attached to the user device.

Data stores may comprise stored data relevant to the functions of the content distribution network . Illustrative examples of data stores that may be maintained in certain embodiments of the content distribution network are described below in reference to . In some embodiments multiple data stores may reside on a single server either using the same storage components of server or using different physical storage components to assure data security and integrity between data stores. In other embodiments each data store may have a separate dedicated data store server .

Content distribution network also may include one or more user devices and or supervisor devices . User devices and supervisor devices may display content received via the content distribution network and may support various types of user interactions with the content. User devices and supervisor devices may include mobile devices such as smartphones tablet computers personal digital assistants and wearable computing devices. Such mobile devices may run a variety of mobile operating systems and may be enabled for Internet e mail short message service SMS Bluetooth mobile radio frequency identification M RFID and or other communication protocols. Other user devices and supervisor devices may be general purpose personal computers or special purpose computing devices including by way of example personal computers laptop computers workstation computers projection devices and interactive room display systems. Additionally user devices and supervisor devices may be any other electronic devices such as a thin client computers an Internet enabled gaming systems business or home appliances and or a personal messaging devices capable of communicating over network s .

In different contexts of content distribution networks user devices and supervisor devices may correspond to different types of specialized devices for example student devices and teacher devices in an educational network employee devices and presentation devices in a company network different gaming devices in a gaming network etc. In some embodiments user devices and supervisor devices may operate in the same physical location such as a classroom or conference room. In such cases the devices may contain components that support direct communications with other nearby devices such as a wireless transceivers and wireless communications interfaces Ethernet sockets or other Local Area Network LAN interfaces etc. In other implementations the user devices and supervisor devices need not be used at the same location but may be used in remote geographic locations in which each user device and supervisor device may use security features and or specialized hardware e.g. hardware accelerated SSL and HTTPS WS Security firewalls etc. to communicate with the content management server and or other remotely located user devices . Additionally different user devices and supervisor devices may be assigned different designated roles such as presenter devices teacher devices administrator devices or the like and in such cases the different devices may be provided with additional hardware and or software components to provide content and support user capabilities not available to the other devices.

The content distribution network also may include a privacy server that maintains private user information at the privacy server while using applications or services hosted on other servers. For example the privacy server may be used to maintain private data of a user within one jurisdiction even though the user is accessing an application hosted on a server e.g. the content management server located outside the jurisdiction. In such cases the privacy server may intercept communications between a user device or supervisor device and other devices that include private user information. The privacy server may create a token or identifier that does not disclose the private information and may use the token or identifier when communicating with the other servers and systems instead of using the user s private information.

As illustrated in the content management server may be in communication with one or more additional servers such as a content server a user data server and or an administrator server . Each of these servers may include some or all of the same physical and logical components as the content management server s and in some cases the hardware and software components of these servers may be incorporated into the content management server s rather than being implemented as separate computer servers.

Content server may include hardware and software components to generate store and maintain the content resources for distribution to user devices and other devices in the network . For example in content distribution networks used for professional training and educational purposes content server may include data stores of training materials presentations plans syllabi reviews evaluations interactive programs and simulations course models course outlines and various training interfaces that correspond to different materials and or different types of user devices . In content distribution networks used for media distribution interactive gaming and the like a content server may include media content files such as music movies television programming games and advertisements.

User data server may include hardware and software components that store and process data for multiple users relating to each user s activities and usage of the content distribution network . For example the content management server may record and track each user s system usage including their user device content resources accessed and interactions with other user devices . This data may be stored and processed by the user data server to support user tracking and analysis features. For instance in the professional training and educational contexts the user data server may store and analyze each user s training materials viewed presentations attended courses completed interactions evaluation results and the like. The user data server may also include a repository for user generated material such as evaluations and tests completed by users and documents and assignments prepared by users. In the context of media distribution and interactive gaming the user data server may store and process resource access data for multiple users e.g. content titles accessed access times data usage amounts gaming histories user devices and device types etc. .

Administrator server may include hardware and software components to initiate various administrative functions at the content management server and other components within the content distribution network . For example the administrator server may monitor device status and performance for the various servers data stores and or user devices in the content distribution network . When necessary the administrator server may add or remove devices from the network and perform device maintenance such as providing software updates to the devices in the network . Various administrative tools on the administrator server may allow authorized users to set user access permissions to various content resources monitor resource usage by users and devices and perform analyses and generate reports on specific network users and or devices e.g. resource usage tracking reports training evaluations etc. .

The content distribution network may include one or more communication networks . Although only a single network is identified in the content distribution network may include any number of different communication networks between any of the computer servers and devices shown in and or other devices described herein. Communication networks may enable communication between the various computing devices servers and other components of the content distribution network . As discussed below various implementations of content distribution networks may employ different types of networks for example computer networks telecommunications networks wireless networks and or any combination of these and or other networks.

The content distribution network may include one or several navigation systems or features including for example the Global Positioning System GPS GALILEO or the like or location systems or features including for example one or several transceivers that can determine location of the one or several components of the content distribution network via for example triangulation. All of these are depicted as navigation system .

In some embodiments navigation system can include or several features that can communicate with one or several components of the content distribution network including for example with one or several of the user devices and or with one or several of the supervisor devices . In some embodiments this communication can include the transmission of a signal from the navigation system which signal is received by one or several components of the content distribution network and can be used to determine the location of the one or several components of the content distribution network .

With reference to an illustrative distributed computing environment is shown including a computer server four client computing devices and other components that may implement certain embodiments and features described herein. In some embodiments the server may correspond to the content management server discussed above in and the client computing devices may correspond to the user devices . However the computing environment illustrated in may correspond to any other combination of devices and servers configured to implement a client server model or other distributed computing architecture.

Client devices may be configured to receive and execute client applications over one or more networks . Such client applications may be web browser based applications and or standalone software applications such as mobile device applications. Server may be communicatively coupled with the client devices via one or more communication networks . Client devices may receive client applications from server or from other application providers e.g. public or private application stores . Server may be configured to run one or more server software applications or services for example web based or cloud based services to support content distribution and interaction with client devices . Users operating client devices may in turn utilize one or more client applications e.g. virtual client applications to interact with server to utilize the services provided by these components.

Various different subsystems and or components may be implemented on server . Users operating the client devices may initiate one or more client applications to use services provided by these subsystems and components. The subsystems and components within the server and client devices may be implemented in hardware firmware software or combinations thereof. Various different system configurations are possible in different distributed computing systems and content distribution networks . The embodiment shown in is thus one example of a distributed computing system and is not intended to be limiting.

Although exemplary computing environment is shown with four client computing devices any number of client computing devices may be supported. Other devices such as specialized sensor devices etc. may interact with client devices and or server .

As shown in various security and integration components may be used to send and manage communications between the server and user devices over one or more communication networks . The security and integration components may include separate servers such as web servers and or authentication servers and or specialized networking components such as firewalls routers gateways load balancers and the like. In some cases the security and integration components may correspond to a set of dedicated hardware and or software operating at the same physical location and under the control of same entities as server . For example components may include one or more dedicated web servers and network hardware in a datacenter or a cloud infrastructure. In other examples the security and integration components may correspond to separate hardware and software components which may be operated at a separate physical location and or by a separate entity.

Security and integration components may implement various security features for data transmission and storage such as authenticating users and restricting access to unknown or unauthorized users. In various implementations security and integration components may provide for example a file based integration scheme or a service based integration scheme for transmitting data between the various devices in the content distribution network . Security and integration components also may use secure data transmission protocols and or encryption for data transfers for example File Transfer Protocol FTP Secure File Transfer Protocol SFTP and or Pretty Good Privacy PGP encryption.

In some embodiments one or more web services may be implemented within the security and integration components and or elsewhere within the content distribution network . Such web services including cross domain and or cross platform web services may be developed for enterprise use in accordance with various web service standards such as RESTful web services i.e. services based on the Representation State Transfer REST architectural style and constraints and or web services designed in accordance with the Web Service Interoperability WS I guidelines. Some web services may use the Secure Sockets Layer SSL or Transport Layer Security TLS protocol to provide secure connections between the server and user devices . SSL or TLS may use HTTP or HTTPS to provide authentication and confidentiality. In other examples web services may be implemented using REST over HTTPS with the OAuth open standard for authentication or using the WS Security standard which provides for secure SOAP messages using XML encryption. In other examples the security and integration components may include specialized hardware for providing secure web services. For example security and integration components may include secure network appliances having built in features such as hardware accelerated SSL and HTTPS WS Security and firewalls. Such specialized hardware may be installed and configured in front of any web servers so that any external devices may communicate directly with the specialized hardware.

Communication network s may be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols including without limitation TCP IP transmission control protocol Internet protocol SNA systems network architecture IPX Internet packet exchange Secure Sockets Layer SSL or Transport Layer Security TLS protocols Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP and Secure Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTPS Bluetooth Near Field Communication NFC and the like. Merely by way of example network s may be local area networks LAN such as one based on Ethernet Token Ring and or the like. Network s also may be wide area networks such as the Internet. Networks may include telecommunication networks such as a public switched telephone networks PSTNs or virtual networks such as an intranet or an extranet. Infrared and wireless networks e.g. using the Institute of Electrical and Electronics IEEE 802.11 protocol suite or other wireless protocols also may be included in networks .

Computing environment also may include one or more data stores and or back end servers . In certain examples the data stores may correspond to data store server s discussed above in and back end servers may correspond to the various back end servers . Data stores and servers may reside in the same datacenter or may operate at a remote location from server . In some cases one or more data stores may reside on a non transitory storage medium within the server . Other data stores and back end servers may be remote from server and configured to communicate with server via one or more networks . In certain embodiments data stores and back end servers may reside in a storage area network SAN or may use storage as a service STaaS architectural model.

With reference to an illustrative set of data stores and or data store servers is shown corresponding to the data store servers of the content distribution network discussed above in . One or more individual data stores may reside in storage on a single computer server or a single server farm or cluster under the control of a single entity or may reside on separate servers operated by different entities and or at remote locations. In some embodiments data stores may be accessed by the content management server and or other devices and servers within the network e.g. user devices also referred to herein as recipient user devices supervisor devices administrator servers etc. . Access to one or more of the data stores may be limited or denied based on the processes user credentials and or devices attempting to interact with the data store.

The paragraphs below describe examples of specific data stores that may be implemented within some embodiments of a content distribution network . It should be understood that the below descriptions of data stores including their functionality and types of data stored therein are illustrative and non limiting. Data stores server architecture design and the execution of specific data stores may depend on the context size and functional requirements of a content distribution network . For example in content distribution systems used for professional training and educational purposes separate databases or file based storage systems may be implemented in data store server s to store trainee and or student data trainer and or professor data training module data and content descriptions training results evaluation data and the like. In contrast in content distribution systems used for media distribution from content providers to subscribers separate data stores may be implemented in data stores server s to store listings of available content titles and descriptions content title usage statistics subscriber profiles account data payment data network usage statistics etc.

A user profile data store also referred to herein as a user profile database may include information relating to the end users within the content distribution network . These users can include users of one or several user devices referred to herein as recipient users and or user of one or several supervisor devices referred to herein as supervisor users. This information may include user characteristics such as the user names access credentials e.g. logins and passwords user preferences and information relating to any previous user interactions within the content distribution network e.g. requested content posted content content modules completed training scores or evaluations other associated users etc. . In some embodiments this information can relate to one or several individual end users such as for example one or several students teachers administrators or the like and in some embodiments this information can relate to one or several institutional end users such as for example one or several schools groups of schools such as one or several school districts one or several colleges one or several universities one or several training providers or the like. In some embodiments this information can identify one or several user memberships in one or several groups such as for example a student s membership in a university school program grade course class or the like.

In some embodiments the user profile database can include information relating to a user s status location or the like. This information can identify for example a device a user is using the location of that device or the like. In some embodiments this information can be generated based on any location detection technology including for example a navigation system or the like.

Information relating to the user s status can identify for example logged in status information that can indicate whether the user is presently logged in to the content distribution network and or whether the log in is active. In some embodiments the information relating to the user s status can identify whether the user is currently accessing content and or participating in an activity from the content distribution network .

In some embodiments information relating to the user s status can identify for example one or several attributes of the user s interaction with the content distribution network and or content distributed by the content distribution network . This can include data identifying the user s interactions with the content distribution network the content consumed by the user through the content distribution network or the like. In some embodiments this can include data identifying the type of information accessed through the content distribution network and or the type of activity performed by the user via the content distribution network the lapsed time since the last time the user accessed content and or participated in an activity from the content distribution network or the like. In some embodiments this information can relate to a content program comprising an aggregate of data content and or activities and can identify for example progress through the content program or through the aggregate of data content and or activities forming the content program. In some embodiments this information can track for example the amount of time since participation in and or completion of one or several types of activities the amount of time since communication with one or several supervisors and or supervisor devices or the like.

In some embodiments in which the one or several end users are individuals and specifically are students the user profile database can further include information relating to these students academic and or educational history. This information can identify one or several courses of study that the student has initiated completed and or partially completed as well as grades received in those courses of study. In some embodiments the student s academic and or educational history can further include information identifying student performance on one or several tests quizzes and or assignments. In some embodiments this information can be stored in a tier of memory that is not the fastest memory in the content delivery network . In some embodiments this information can include one or several response packets provided by students in response to one or several data packets. In some embodiments for example the students user profile may include a plurality of response packets provided by that student in response to one or several data packets. In some embodiments these response packets can be associated with information relating to the data packet and or relating to the response such as for example the amount of time used by the student in providing the response the evaluation result in response or the like.

The user profile database can include information relating to one or several student learning preferences. In some embodiments for example the user also referred to herein as the student or the student user may have one or several preferred learning styles one or several most effective learning styles and or the like. In some embodiments the student s learning style can be any learning style describing how the student best learns or how the student prefers to learn. In one embodiment these learning styles can include for example identification of the student as an auditory learner as a visual learner and or as a tactile learner. In some embodiments the data identifying one or several student learning styles can include data identifying a learning style based on the student s educational history such as for example identifying a student as an auditory learner when the student has received significantly higher grades and or scores on assignments and or in courses favorable to auditory learners. In some embodiments this information can be stored in a tier of memory that is not the fastest memory in the content delivery network .

The user profile database can further include information relating to one or several teachers and or instructors who are responsible for organizing presenting and or managing the presentation of information to the student. In some embodiments user profile database can include information identifying courses and or subjects that have been taught by the teacher data identifying courses and or subjects currently taught by the teacher and or data identifying courses and or subjects that will be taught by the teacher. In some embodiments this can include information relating to one or several teaching styles of one or several teachers. In some embodiments the user profile database can further include information indicating past evaluations and or evaluation reports received by the teacher. In some embodiments the user profile database can further include information relating to improvement suggestions received by the teacher training received by the teacher continuing education received by the teacher and or the like. In some embodiments this information can be stored in a tier of memory that is not the fastest memory in the content delivery network .

An accounts data store also referred to herein as an accounts database may generate and store account data for different users in various roles within the content distribution network . For example accounts may be created in an accounts data store for individual end users supervisors administrator users and entities such as companies or educational institutions. Account data may include account types current account status account characteristics and any parameters limits restrictions associated with the accounts.

A content library data store also referred to herein as a content library database may include information describing the individual content items or content resources or data packets available via the content distribution network . In some embodiments the library data store may include metadata properties and other characteristics associated with the content resources stored in the content server . Such data may identify one or more aspects or content attributes of the associated content resources for example subject matter access level or skill level of the content resources license attributes of the content resources e.g. any limitations and or restrictions on the licensable use and or distribution of the content resource price attributes of the content resources e.g. a price and or price structure for determining a payment amount for use or distribution of the content resource rating attributes for the content resources e.g. data indicating the evaluation or effectiveness of the content resource and the like. In some embodiments the library data store may be configured to allow updating of content metadata or properties and to allow the addition and or removal of information relating to the content resources. For example content relationships may be implemented as graph structures which may be stored in the library data store or in an additional store for use by selection algorithms along with the other metadata.

In some embodiments the one or several data packets can include for example data packets for conveying information to a user also referred to herein as delivery data packets or delivery content items and data packets to assess a knowledge level comfort and or confidence level with a task and or skill level of the user also referred to as assessment data packets or assessment content items. These data packets can include one or several character strings text images audio video or the like. In some embodiments data packets to convey information to the user can include one or several demonstrations lectures readings lessons videos or video clips recordings audio clips or the like and in some embodiments the data packets to assess a knowledge level and or skill level of the user can include one or several questions including for example one or several short answer questions essay questions multiple choice questions true false questions survey questions self assessment questions or the like. In some embodiments the data packets to convey information can be stored in the content database of the data packet database and in some embodiments the data packets to assess the knowledge level and or skill level of the user can be stored in the question database of the data packet database.

A pricing data store may include pricing information and or pricing structures for determining payment amounts for providing access to the content distribution network and or the individual content resources within the network . In some cases pricing may be determined based on a user s access to the content distribution network for example a time based subscription fee or pricing based on network usage and. In other cases pricing may be tied to specific content resources. Certain content resources may have associated pricing information whereas other pricing determinations may be based on the resources accessed the profiles and or accounts of the user and the desired level of access e.g. duration of access network speed etc. . Additionally the pricing data store may include information relating to compilation pricing for groups of content resources such as group prices and or price structures for groupings of resources.

A license data store may include information relating to licenses and or licensing of the content resources within the content distribution network . For example the license data store may identify licenses and licensing terms for individual content resources and or compilations of content resources in the content server the rights holders for the content resources and or common or large scale right holder information such as contact information for rights holders of content not included in the content server .

A content access data store may include access rights and security information for the content distribution network and specific content resources. For example the content access data store may include login information e.g. user identifiers logins passwords etc. that can be verified during user login attempts to the network . The content access data store also may be used to store assigned user roles and or user levels of access. For example a user s access level may correspond to the sets of content resources and or the client or server applications that the user is permitted to access. Certain users may be permitted or denied access to certain applications and resources based on their subscription level training program course grade level etc. Certain users may have supervisory access over one or more end users allowing the supervisor to access all or portions of the end user s content activities evaluations etc. Additionally certain users may have administrative access over some users and or some applications in the content management network allowing such users to add and remove user accounts modify user access permissions perform maintenance updates on software and servers etc.

A source data store may include information relating to the source of the content resources available via the content distribution network. For example a source data store may identify the authors and originating devices of content resources previous pieces of data and or groups of data originating from the same authors or originating devices and the like.

An evaluation data store may include information used to direct the evaluation of users and content resources in the content management network . In some embodiments the evaluation data store may contain for example the analysis criteria and the analysis guidelines for evaluating users e.g. trainees students gaming users media content consumers etc. and or for evaluating the content resources in the network . The evaluation data store also may include information relating to evaluation processing tasks for example the identification of users and user devices that have received certain content resources or accessed certain applications the status of evaluations or evaluation histories for content resources users or applications and the like. Evaluation criteria may be stored in the evaluation data store including data and or instructions in the form of one or several electronic rubrics also referred to herein as evaluation schedules or scoring guides for use in the evaluation of the content users or applications. In some embodiments the evaluation schedule can include a plurality of partitions each of which can correspond to a performance outcome. In some embodiments each of the partitions can be associated with a text string identifying criteria of a response packet matching that partition and or attributes of a response packet matching that partition. The evaluation data store also may include past evaluations and or evaluation analyses for users content and applications including relative rankings characterizations explanations and the like.

A model data store also referred to herein as a model database can store information relating to one or several predictive models. In some embodiments these can include one or several evidence models risk models or the like. In some embodiments an evidence model can be a mathematically based statistical model. The evidence model can be based on for example Item Response Theory IRT Bayesian Network Bayes net Performance Factor Analysis PFA or the like. The evidence model can in some embodiments be customizable to a user and or to one or several content items. Specifically one or several inputs relating to the user and or to one or several content items can be inserted into the evidence model. These inputs can include for example one or several measures of user skill level one or several measures of content item difficulty and or skill level or the like. The customized evidence model can then be used to predict the likelihood of the user providing desired or undesired responses to one or several of the content items.

In some embodiments the risk models can include one or several models that can be used to calculate one or several model functions values. In some embodiments these one or several model function values can be used to calculate a risk probability which risk probability can characterize the risk of a user such as a student user failing to achieve a desired outcome such as for example failing to achieve a desired level of completion of a program for example in a pre defined time period. In some embodiments the risk probability can identify the risk of the student user failing to complete 60 of the program.

In some embodiments these models can include a plurality of model functions including for example a first model function a second model function a third model function and a fourth model function. In some embodiments some or all of the model functions can be associated with a portion of the program such as for example a completion stage and or completion status of the program. In one embodiment for example the first model function can be associated with a first completion status the second model function can be associated with a second completion status the third model function can be associated with a third completion status and the fourth model function can be associated with a fourth completion status. In some embodiments these completion statuses can be selected such that some or all of these completion statuses are less than the desired level of completion of the program. Specifically in some embodiments these completion status can be selected to all be at less than 60 completion of the program and more specifically in some embodiments the first completion status can be at 20 completion of the program the second completion status can be at 30 completion of the program the third completion status can be at 40 completion of the program and the fourth completion status can be at 50 completion of the program. Similarly any desired number of model functions can be associated with any desired number of completion statuses.

In some embodiments a model function can be selected from the plurality of model functions based on a student user s progress through a program. In some embodiments the student user s progress can be compared to one or several status trigger thresholds each of which status trigger thresholds can be associated with one or more of the model functions. If one of the status triggers is triggered by the student user s progress the corresponding one or several model functions can be selected.

The model functions can comprise a variety of types of models and or functions. In some embodiments each of the model functions outputs a function value that can be used in calculating a risk probability. This function value can be calculated by performing one or several mathematical operations on one or several values indicative of one or several user attributes and or user parameters also referred to herein as program status parameters. In some embodiments each of the model functions can use the same program status parameters and in some embodiments the model functions can use different program status parameters. In some embodiments the model functions use different program status parameters when at least one of the model functions uses at least one program status parameter that is not used by others of the model functions.

In some embodiments the model database can include one or several evaluation models. In some embodiments these evaluation models can generate an evaluation of a response packet based on the presence or absence of one or several patterns in the response packet. In some embodiments for example these one or several patterns can be indicated as present or absent in the response packet by one or several Boolean values associated with the response packet. In some embodiments these one or several evaluation models can be generated and or trained as discussed below.

In some embodiments the model database can include one or several sets of data for use in generating and or training a model. In some embodiments these one or several sets of data for use in generating and or training a model also referred to herein as one or several training sets can include for example a plurality of response packets received in response to one or several data packets. In some embodiments these one or several response packets can be associated with the valuation information indicating the result of an evaluation already performed on the response packets by for example a human evaluator. In some embodiments these one or several response packets forming the one or several training sets can be received from one or several user devices .

A threshold database also referred to herein as a threshold database can store one or several threshold values. These one or several threshold values can delineate between states or conditions. In one exemplary embodiment for example a threshold value can delineate between an acceptable user performance and an unacceptable user performance between content appropriate for a user and content that is inappropriate for a user between risk levels or the like.

An interface data store also referred to herein as an interface database can include information for controlling the operation of a user interface such as a graphical user interface. In some embodiments this information can include the code for generating the user interface for adding the desired functionalities widgets and or tools to the user interface or the like.

In some embodiments the pattern database can include information associated with one or several response packets and specifically information identifying one or several patterns as present or absent in one or several response packets. In one embodiment for example the pattern database can include data associated with a response packet. This data can via one or several values such as Boolean values identify the presence or absence of one or several patterns in the associated response packet. In one embodiment for example this data can include a first Boolean value identifying a pattern associated with the Boolean value as present in the response packet and or a second Boolean value identifying a pattern associated with the Boolean value as absent in the response packet.

In addition to the illustrative data stores described above data store server s e.g. database servers file based storage servers etc. may include one or more external data aggregators . External data aggregators may include third party data sources accessible to the content management network but not maintained by the content management network . External data aggregators may include any electronic information source relating to the users content resources or applications of the content distribution network . For example external data aggregators may be third party data stores containing demographic data education related data consumer sales data health related data and the like. Illustrative external data aggregators may include for example social networking web servers public records data stores learning management systems educational institution servers business servers consumer sales data stores medical record data stores etc. Data retrieved from various external data aggregators may be used to verify and update user account information suggest user content and perform user and content evaluations.

With reference now to a block diagram is shown illustrating an embodiment of one or more content management servers within a content distribution network . As discussed above content management server s may include various server hardware and software components that manage the content resources within the content distribution network and provide interactive and adaptive content to users on various user devices . For example content management server s may provide instructions to and receive information from the other devices within the content distribution network in order to manage and transmit content resources user data and server or client applications executing within the network .

A content management server may include a content customization system . The content customization system may be implemented using dedicated hardware within the content distribution network e.g. a content customization server or using designated hardware and software resources within a shared content management server . In some embodiments the content customization system may adjust the selection and adaptive capabilities of content resources to match the needs and desires of the users receiving the content. For example the content customization system may query various data stores and servers to retrieve user information such as user preferences and characteristics e.g. from a user profile data store user access restrictions to content recourses e.g. from a content access data store previous user results and content evaluations e.g. from an evaluation data store and the like. Based on the retrieved information from data stores and other data sources the content customization system may modify content resources for individual users.

In some embodiments the content management system can include a recommendation engine also referred to herein as an adaptive recommendation engine. In some embodiments the recommendation engine can select one or several pieces of content also referred to herein as data packets for providing to a user. These data packets can be selected based on for example the information retrieved from the database server including for example the user profile database the content library database the model database or the like. In one embodiment for example the recommendation engine can retrieve information from the user profile database identifying for example a skill level of the user. The recommendation engine can further retrieve information from the content library database identifying for example potential data packets for providing to the user and the difficulty of those data packets and or the skill level associated with those data packets.

The recommendation engine can use the evidence model to generate a prediction of the likelihood of one or several users providing a desired response to some or all of the potential data packets. In some embodiments the recommendation engine can pair one or several data packets with selection criteria that may be used to determine which packet should be delivered to a student user based on one or several received responses from that student user. In some embodiments one or several data packets can be eliminated from the pool of potential data packets if the prediction indicates either too high a likelihood of a desired response or too low a likelihood of a desired response. In some embodiments the recommendation engine can then apply one or several selection criteria to the remaining potential data packets to select a data packet for providing to the user. These one or several selection criteria can be based on for example criteria relating to a desired estimated time for receipt of response to the data packet one or several content parameters one or several assignment parameters or the like.

A content management server also may include a user management system . The user management system may be implemented using dedicated hardware within the content distribution network e.g. a user management server or using designated hardware and software resources within a shared content management server . In some embodiments the user management system may monitor the progress of users through various types of content resources and groups such as media compilations courses or curriculums in training or educational contexts interactive gaming environments and the like. For example the user management system may query one or more databases and or data store servers to retrieve user data such as associated content compilations or programs content completion status user goals results and the like.

A content management server also may include an evaluation system also referred to herein as a response processor. The evaluation system may be implemented using dedicated hardware within the content distribution network e.g. an evaluation server or using designated hardware and software resources within a shared content management server . The evaluation system may be configured to receive and analyze information from user devices . For example various ratings of content resources submitted by users may be compiled and analyzed and then stored in a data store e.g. a content library data store and or evaluation data store associated with the content. In some embodiments the evaluation server may analyze the information to determine the effectiveness or appropriateness of content resources with for example a subject matter an age group a skill level or the like. In some embodiments the evaluation system may provide updates to the content customization system or the user management system with the attributes of one or more content resources or groups of resources within the network . The evaluation system also may receive and analyze user evaluation data from user devices supervisor devices and administrator servers etc. For instance evaluation system may receive aggregate and analyze user evaluation data for different types of users e.g. end users supervisors administrators etc. in different contexts e.g. media consumer ratings trainee or student comprehension levels teacher effectiveness levels gamer skill levels etc. .

In some embodiments the evaluation system can be further configured to receive one or several responses from the user and to determine whether the one or several response are correct responses also referred to herein as desired responses or are incorrect responses also referred to herein as undesired responses. In some embodiments one or several values can be generated by the evaluation system to reflect user performance in responding to the one or several data packets. In some embodiments these one or several values can comprise one or several scores for one or several responses and or data packets.

A content management server also may include a content delivery system . The content delivery system may be implemented using dedicated hardware within the content distribution network e.g. a content delivery server or using designated hardware and software resources within a shared content management server . The content delivery system can include a presentation engine that can be for example a software module running on the content delivery system.

The content delivery system also referred to herein as the presentation module or the presentation engine may receive content resources from the content customization system and or from the user management system and provide the resources to user devices . The content delivery system may determine the appropriate presentation format for the content resources based on the user characteristics and preferences and or the device capabilities of user devices . If needed the content delivery system may convert the content resources to the appropriate presentation format and or compress the content before transmission. In some embodiments the content delivery system may also determine the appropriate transmission media and communication protocols for transmission of the content resources.

In some embodiments the content delivery system may include specialized security and integration hardware along with corresponding software components to implement the appropriate security features content transmission and storage to provide the supported network and client access models and to support the performance and scalability requirements of the network . The security and integration layer may include some or all of the security and integration components discussed above in and may control the transmission of content resources and other data as well as the receipt of requests and content interactions to and from the user devices supervisor devices administrative servers and other devices in the network .

With reference now to a flowchart illustrating one embodiment of a process for data management is shown. In some embodiments the process can be performed by the content management server and more specifically by the content delivery system and or by the presentation module or presentation engine. The process begins at block wherein a data packet is identified. In some embodiments the data packet can be a data packet for providing to a student user and the data packet can be identified by determining which data packet to next provide to the user such as the student user. In some embodiments this determination can be performed by the content customization system and or the recommendation engine.

After the data packet has been identified the process proceeds to block wherein the data packet is requested. In some embodiments this can include the requesting of information relating to the data packet such as the data forming the data packet. In some embodiments this information can be requested from for example the content library database . After the data packet has been requested the process proceeds to block wherein the data packet is received. In some embodiments the data packet can be received by the content delivery system from for example the content library database .

After the data packet has been received the process proceeds to block wherein one or several data components are identified. In some embodiments for example the data packet can include one or several data components which can for example contain different data. In some embodiments one of these data components referred to herein as a presentation component can include content for providing to the student user which content can include one or several requests and or questions and or the like. In some embodiments one of these data components referred to herein as a response component can include data used in evaluating one or several responses received from the user device in response to the data packet and specifically in response to the presentation component and or the one or several requests and or questions of the presentation component. Thus in some embodiments the response component of the data packet can be used to ascertain whether the user has provided a desired response or an undesired response.

After the data components have been identified the process proceeds to block wherein a delivery data packet is identified. In some embodiments the delivery data packet can include the one or several data components of the data packets for delivery to a user such as the student user via the user device . In some embodiments the delivery packet can include the presentation component and in some embodiments the delivery packet can exclude the response packet. After the delivery data packet has been generated the process proceeds to block wherein the delivery data packet is presented to the user device . In some embodiments this can include providing the delivery data packet to the user device via for example the communication network .

After the delivery data packet has been provided to the user device the process proceeds to block wherein the data packet and or one or several components thereof is sent to and or provided to the response processor. In some embodiments this sending of the data packet and or one or several components thereof to the response processor can include receiving a response from the student user and sending the response to the student user to the response processor simultaneous with the sending of the data packet and or one or several components thereof to the response processor. In some embodiments for example this can include providing the response component to the response processor. In some embodiments the response component can be provided to the response processor from the content delivery system .

With reference now to a flowchart illustrating one embodiment of a process for evaluating a response is shown. In some embodiments the process can be performed by the evaluation system . In some embodiments the process can be performed by the evaluation system in response to the receipt of a response from the user device .

The process begins at block wherein a response also referred to herein as a response packet is received from for example the user device via for example the communication network . After the response has been received the process proceeds to block wherein the data packet associated with the response is received. In some embodiments this can include receiving all or one or several components of the data packet such as for example the response component of the data packet. In some embodiments the data packet can be received by the response processor from the presentation engine.

After the data packet has been received the process proceeds to block wherein the response type is identified. In some embodiments this identification can be performed based on data such as metadata associated with the response. In other embodiments this identification can be performed based on data packet information such as the response component.

In some embodiments the response type can identify one or several attributes of the one or several requests and or questions of the data packet such as for example the request and or question type. In some embodiments this can include identifying some or all of the one or several requests and or questions as true false multiple choice short answer essay or the like.

After the response type has been identified the process proceeds to block wherein the data packet and the response are compared to determine whether the response comprises a desired response and or an undesired response. In some embodiments this can include comparing the received response and the data packet to determine if the received response matches all or portions of the response component of the data packet to determine the degree to which the received response matches all or portions of the response component to determine the degree to which the receive response embodies one or several qualities identified in the response component of the data packet or the like. In some embodiments this can include classifying the response according to one or several rules. In some embodiments these rules can be used to classify the response as either desired or undesired. In some embodiments these rules can be used to identify one or several errors and or misconceptions evidenced in the response. In some embodiments this can include for example use of natural language processing software and or algorithms use of one or several digital thesauruses use of lemmatization software dictionaries and or algorithms or the like.

After the data packet and the response have been compared the process proceeds to block wherein response desirability is determined. In some embodiments this can include based on the result of the comparison of the data packet and the response whether the response is a desired response or is an undesired response. In some embodiments this can further include quantifying the degree to which the response is a desired response. This determination can include for example determining if the response is a correct response an incorrect response a partially correct response or the like. In some embodiments the determination of response desirability can include the generation of a value characterizing the response desirability and the storing of this value in one of the databases such as for example the user profile database . After the response desirability has been determined the process proceeds to block wherein an assessment value is generated. In some embodiments the assessment value can be an aggregate value characterizing response desirability for one or more a plurality of responses. This assessment value can be stored in one of the databases such as the user profile database .

With reference now to a block diagram of an illustrative computer system is shown. The system may correspond to any of the computing devices or servers of the content distribution network described above or any other computing devices described herein and specifically can include for example one or several of the user devices the supervisor device and or any of the servers . In this example computer system includes processing units that communicate with a number of peripheral subsystems via a bus subsystem . These peripheral subsystems include for example a storage subsystem an I O subsystem and a communications subsystem .

Bus subsystem provides a mechanism for letting the various components and subsystems of computer system communicate with each other as intended. Although bus subsystem is shown schematically as a single bus alternative embodiments of the bus subsystem may utilize multiple buses. Bus subsystem may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. Such architectures may include for example an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus which can be implemented as a Mezzanine bus manufactured to the IEEE P1386.1 standard.

Processing unit which may be implemented as one or more integrated circuits e.g. a conventional microprocessor or microcontroller controls the operation of computer system . One or more processors including single core and or multicore processors may be included in processing unit . As shown in the figure processing unit may be implemented as one or more independent processing units and or with single or multicore processors and processor caches included in each processing unit. In other embodiments processing unit may also be implemented as a quad core processing unit or larger multicore designs e.g. hexa core processors octo core processors ten core processors or greater.

Processing unit may execute a variety of software processes embodied in program code and may maintain multiple concurrently executing programs or processes. At any given time some or all of the program code to be executed can be resident in processor s and or in storage subsystem . In some embodiments computer system may include one or more specialized processors such as digital signal processors DSPs outboard processors graphics processors application specific processors and or the like.

I O subsystem may include device controllers for one or more user interface input devices and or user interface output devices . User interface input and output devices may be integral with the computer system e.g. integrated audio video systems and or touchscreen displays or may be separate peripheral devices which are attachable detachable from the computer system . The I O subsystem may provide one or several outputs to a user by converting one or several electrical signals to user perceptible and or interpretable form and may receive one or several inputs from the user by generating one or several electrical signals based on one or several user caused interactions with the I O subsystem such as the depressing of a key or button the moving of a mouse the interaction with a touchscreen or trackpad the interaction of a sound wave with a microphone or the like. In some embodiments the I O subsystem can be configured to generate a user interface such as a graphical user interface GUI . In some embodiments a I O subsystem of a user device is identified as a user I O subsystem and or a recipient I O subsystem. In some embodiments a I O subsystem of a supervisor device is identified herein as a supervisor I O subsystem.

Input devices may include a keyboard pointing devices such as a mouse or trackball a touchpad or touch screen incorporated into a display a scroll wheel a click wheel a dial a button a switch a keypad audio input devices with voice command recognition systems microphones and other types of input devices. Input devices may also include three dimensional 3D mice joysticks or pointing sticks gamepads and graphic tablets and audio visual devices such as speakers digital cameras digital camcorders portable media players webcams image scanners fingerprint scanners barcode reader 3D scanners 3D printers laser rangefinders and eye gaze tracking devices. Additional input devices may include for example motion sensing and or gesture recognition devices that enable users to control and interact with an input device through a natural user interface using gestures and spoken commands eye gesture recognition devices that detect eye activity from users and transform the eye gestures as input into an input device voice recognition sensing devices that enable users to interact with voice recognition systems through voice commands medical imaging input devices MIDI keyboards digital musical instruments and the like.

Output devices may include one or more display subsystems indicator lights or non visual displays such as audio output devices etc. Display subsystems may include for example cathode ray tube CRT displays flat panel devices such as those using a liquid crystal display LCD or plasma display light emitting diode LED displays projection devices touch screens and the like. In general use of the term output device is intended to include all possible types of devices and mechanisms for outputting information from computer system to a user or other computer. For example output devices may include without limitation a variety of display devices that visually convey text graphics and audio video information such as monitors printers speakers headphones automotive navigation systems plotters voice output devices and modems.

Computer system may comprise one or more storage subsystems comprising hardware and software components used for storing data and program instructions such as system memory and computer readable storage media . The system memory and or computer readable storage media may store program instructions that are loadable and executable on processing units as well as data generated during the execution of these programs.

Depending on the configuration and type of computer system system memory may be stored in volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or in non volatile storage drives such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. The RAM may contain data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated and executed by processing units . In some implementations system memory may include multiple different types of memory such as static random access memory SRAM or dynamic random access memory DRAM . In some implementations a basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer system such as during start up may typically be stored in the non volatile storage drives . By way of example and not limitation system memory may include application programs such as client applications Web browsers mid tier applications server applications etc. program data and an operating system .

Storage subsystem also may provide one or more tangible computer readable storage media for storing the basic programming and data constructs that provide the functionality of some embodiments. Software programs code modules instructions that when executed by a processor provide the functionality described herein may be stored in storage subsystem . These software modules or instructions may be executed by processing units . Storage subsystem may also provide a repository for storing data used in accordance with the present invention.

Storage subsystem may also include a computer readable storage media reader that can further be connected to computer readable storage media . Together and optionally in combination with system memory computer readable storage media may comprehensively represent remote local fixed and or removable storage devices plus storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information.

Computer readable storage media containing program code or portions of program code may include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information. This can include tangible computer readable storage media such as RAM ROM electronically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible computer readable media. This can also include nontangible computer readable media such as data signals data transmissions or any other medium which can be used to transmit the desired information and which can be accessed by computer system .

By way of example computer readable storage media may include a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD and Blu Ray disk or other optical media. Computer readable storage media may include but is not limited to Zip drives flash memory cards universal serial bus USB flash drives secure digital SD cards DVD disks digital video tape and the like. Computer readable storage media may also include solid state drives SSD based on non volatile memory such as flash memory based SSDs enterprise flash drives solid state ROM and the like SSDs based on volatile memory such as solid state RAM dynamic RAM static RAM DRAM based SSDs magnetoresistive RAM MRAM SSDs and hybrid SSDs that use a combination of DRAM and flash memory based SSDs. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for computer system .

Communications subsystem may provide a communication interface from computer system and external computing devices via one or more communication networks including local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs e.g. the Internet and various wireless telecommunications networks. As illustrated in the communications subsystem may include for example one or more network interface controllers NICs such as Ethernet cards Asynchronous Transfer Mode NICs Token Ring NICs and the like as well as one or more wireless communications interfaces such as wireless network interface controllers WNICs wireless network adapters and the like. As illustrated in the communications subsystem may include for example one or more location determining features such as one or several navigation system features and or receivers and the like. Additionally and or alternatively the communications subsystem may include one or more modems telephone satellite cable ISDN synchronous or asynchronous digital subscriber line DSL units FireWire interfaces USB interfaces and the like. Communications subsystem also may include radio frequency RF transceiver components for accessing wireless voice and or data networks e.g. using cellular telephone technology advanced data network technology such as 3G 4G or EDGE enhanced data rates for global evolution WiFi IEEE 802.11 family standards or other mobile communication technologies or any combination thereof global positioning system GPS receiver components and or other components.

The various physical components of the communications subsystem may be detachable components coupled to the computer system via a computer network a FireWire bus or the like and or may be physically integrated onto a motherboard of the computer system . Communications subsystem also may be implemented in whole or in part by software.

In some embodiments communications subsystem may also receive input communication in the form of structured and or unstructured data feeds event streams event updates and the like on behalf of one or more users who may use or access computer system . For example communications subsystem may be configured to receive data feeds in real time from users of social networks and or other communication services web feeds such as Rich Site Summary RSS feeds and or real time updates from one or more third party information sources e.g. data aggregators . Additionally communications subsystem may be configured to receive data in the form of continuous data streams which may include event streams of real time events and or event updates e.g. sensor data applications financial tickers network performance measuring tools clickstream analysis tools automobile traffic monitoring etc. . Communications subsystem may output such structured and or unstructured data feeds event streams event updates and the like to one or more data stores that may be in communication with one or more streaming data source computers coupled to computer system .

Due to the ever changing nature of computers and networks the description of computer system depicted in the figure is intended only as a specific example. Many other configurations having more or fewer components than the system depicted in the figure are possible. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

With reference now to a block diagram illustrating one embodiment of the communication network is shown. Specifically depicts one hardware configuration in which messages are exchanged between a source hub via the communication network that can include one or several intermediate hubs . In some embodiments the source hub can be any one or several components of the content distribution network generating and initiating the sending of a message and the terminal hub can be any one or several components of the content distribution network receiving and not re sending the message. In some embodiments for example the source hub can be one or several of the user device the supervisor device and or the server and the terminal hub can likewise be one or several of the user device the supervisor device and or the server . In some embodiments the intermediate hubs can include any computing device that receives the message and resends the message to a next node.

As seen in in some embodiments each of the hubs can be communicatingly connected with the data store . In such embodiments some or all of the hubs can send information to the data store identifying a received message and or any sent or resent message. This information can in some embodiments be used to determine the completeness of any sent and or received messages and or to verify the accuracy and completeness of any message received by the terminal hub .

In some embodiments the communication network can be formed by the intermediate hubs . In some embodiments the communication network can comprise a single intermediate hub and in some embodiments the communication network can comprise a plurality of intermediate hubs. In one embodiment for example and as depicted in the communication network includes a first intermediate hub A and a second intermediate hub B.

With reference now to a block diagram illustrating one embodiment of user device and supervisor device communication is shown. In some embodiments for example a user may have multiple devices that can connect with the content distribution network to send or receive information. In some embodiments for example a user may have a personal device such as a mobile device a Smartphone a tablet a Smartwatch a laptop a PC or the like. In some embodiments the other device can be any computing device in addition to the personal device. This other device can include for example a laptop a PC a Smartphone a tablet a Smartwatch or the like. In some embodiments the other device differs from the personal device in that the personal device is registered as such within the content distribution network and the other device is not registered as a personal device within the content distribution network .

Specifically with respect to the user device can include a personal user device A and one or several other user devices B. In some embodiments one or both of the personal user device A and the one or several other user devices B can be communicatingly connected to the content management server and or to the navigation system . Similarly the supervisor device can include a personal supervisor device A and one or several other supervisor devices B. In some embodiments one or both of the personal supervisor device A and the one or several other supervisor devices B can be communicatingly connected to the content management server and or to the navigation system .

In some embodiments the content distribution network can send one or more alerts to one or more user devices and or one or more supervisor devices via for example the communication network . In some embodiments the receipt of the alert can result in the launching of an application within the receiving device and in some embodiments the alert can include a link that when selected launches the application or navigates a web browser of the device of the selector of the link to page or portal associated with the alert.

In some embodiments for example the providing of this alert can include the identification of one or several user devices and or student user accounts associated with the student user and or one or several supervisor devices and or supervisor user accounts associated with the supervisor user. After these one or several devices and or accounts have been identified the providing of this alert can include determining an active device of the devices based on determining which of the devices and or accounts are actively being used and then providing the alert to that active device.

Specifically if the user is actively using one of the devices such as the other user device B and the other supervisor device B and or accounts the alert can be provided to the user via that other device B B and or account that is actively being used. If the user is not actively using an other device B B and or account a personal device A A device such as a smart phone or tablet can be identified and the alert can be provided to this personal device A A. In some embodiments the alert can include code to direct the default device to provide an indicator of the received alert such as for example an aural tactile or visual indicator of receipt of the alert.

In some embodiments the recipient device of the alert can provide an indication of receipt of the alert. In some embodiments the presentation of the alert can include the control of the I O subsystem to for example provide an aural tactile and or visual indicator of the alert and or of the receipt of the alert. In some embodiments this can include controlling a screen of the supervisor device to display the alert data contained in alert and or an indicator of the alert.

With reference now to a flowchart illustrating one embodiment of process for generating alerts in response to a detected action of a recipient user device is shown. The process can be performed by the content distribution network and specifically by some or all of the components of the content distribution network . The process begins at block wherein an initiation request is received. In some embodiments the initiation request can be received from the recipient user device by for example the content management server via the communication network . The initiation request can comprise an electrical signal including a request for starting of a module which module can be a group of data packets tasks and or interactions.

After the initiation request has been received the process proceeds to block wherein the module is identified. In some embodiments the identification of the module can include for example the determining the skill level of the user of the recipient user device . In some embodiments this skill level can be determined based on information stored in the database server such as for example the user profile database .

In some embodiments this stored information can be generated based on one or several past or previous interactions between the user and one or several components of the content distribution network . In some embodiments the identification of the module can include determining the module corresponding to the users skill level via one or several assessments surveys or the like. In some embodiments this can include the generating and sending of one or several electrical signals from the server to the recipient user device directing the recipient user device and specifically directing the I O subsystem of the recipient user device to generate a placement interface in the graphical user interface. In some embodiments the placement interface can comprise one or several windows or areas for questions or requests and or one or several windows or areas for receiving one or several response from the user of the recipient user device .

In some embodiments the placement interface can output one or several signals that can be evaluated by for example the server to determine the skill level of the user of the recipient user device . In some embodiments after the skill level of the user has been determined the module corresponding to the skill level can be selected and or the module corresponding to the skill level and one or several user preferences can be selected.

After the module has been identified and or selected the process proceeds to block wherein one or several delivery data packets are provided to the user. In some embodiments these one or several delivery data packets can be provided by the server to the recipient user device via the communication network . Specifically in some embodiments the server can generate and send one or several electrical signals directing the recipient user device and particularly directing the I O subsystem of the recipient user device to generate a presentation interface. In some embodiments the presentation interface can include a region for presenting information relating to a user s progress through a module a region including one or several timers or clocks indicating the amount of time since the start of the module or the receipt of a data packet in the module and or indicating in decrementing fashion the amount of time until an event such as for example a until the communicative coupling of the recipient user device to a supervisor device for a live session in which the user of the recipient device and the user of the supervisor device can directly communicate.

In some embodiments these data packets can comprise the data packets forming the module. In some embodiments the data packets can be delivered serially according to for example a pre determined order. In some embodiments the data packets can be retrieved from the database server and specifically from the content library database and can be delivered to the recipient user device for providing to the recipient user.

In some embodiments an incrementing timer can be triggered when a first one of the delivery data packets is provided to the recipient user device and in some embodiments this incrementing timer can be triggered at another point in process . In some embodiments the incrementing timer can be located at the server and can be triggered by an electrical signal received at the server by the recipient user device . In some embodiments this incrementing timer can track the amount of time lapsed since its triggering and more specifically can be used to track the amount of lapsed time since the start of the module.

After or simultaneous with the providing of the delivery data packets the process proceeds to block wherein a user response is received and specifically wherein a user response is received in response to the receipt of at least one of the data packets. In some embodiments the user response can be received by the server from the recipient user device via the communication network . In some embodiments in which the delivery data packets are serially provided to the recipient user device a response to a provided delivery data packet can be received before an addition delivery data packet is provided to the recipient user device. .

After the user response has been received the process proceeds to block wherein the recipient user device is coupled with a supervisor device . In some embodiments this can be the communicative coupling of these devices which communicative couple can allow the interaction of the user of the recipient user device and the user of the supervisor device . In some embodiments the communicative coupling of these devices can include the server generating and sending one or several electrical signals directing the recipient user device and the supervisor device and particularly directing the I O subsystems of the recipient user device and of the supervisor device to generate a coupling interface. In some embodiments the coupling interface can include one or several features configured to facilitate an interactive meeting between the user of the recipient user device and the user of the supervisor device . In some embodiments these features can include for example one or several windows or regions configured to show an image of the users such as for example a live image of the users one or several windows or regions configured to show content such as content relating the interactive session or the like.

In some embodiments communicatively coupling the devices can include automatically sending a proposed time for communicatively coupling of the recipient user device and the supervisor device from the server to one or both of the devices . In some embodiments communicatively coupling the devices can include receiving an acceptance signal of the proposed time for communicatively coupling the recipient user device and the supervisor device from one or both of the recipient user device and the supervisor device and triggering a decrementing timer based on the receipt of the acceptance signal and the amount of time until the proposed time for communicatively coupling the recipient user device and the supervisor device. In some embodiments this decrementing timer can be maintained at the server and can be triggered by receipt of a confirmation of the proposed time for communicatively coupling the devices . In some embodiments this decrementing timer can be visually displayed at one or both of the devices . In some embodiments communicatively coupling the devices can include receiving an indication of data transmission between the recipient user device and the supervisor device . In some embodiments this indication can include a signal from at least one of the recipient user device and the supervisor device indicating communicative coupling. In some embodiments the decrementing timer can be stopped when the indication is received of the communicative coupling between the devices .

After the devices have been coupled the process proceeds to block wherein an assessment data packet is delivered. In some embodiments the assessment data packet can be retrieved from the database server and or from one of the databases of the database server such as for example the evaluation database . In some embodiments the assessment data packet can comprises a description of for example a task one or several parameters of the tasks such as descriptors of the action associated with the task one or several descriptors of a timer or location of the task or the like. In some embodiments the assessment data packet can comprise one or several questions such as for example one or several self assessment questions configured to generate data relating to the completion of the task such as for example the users confidence and or comfort in completing the task. In some embodiments the delivery of the assessment packet can include the receipt of a response to the assessment packet.

In some embodiments the delivery of an assessment packet can include the generating and or sending of a signal by the server to the recipient user device directing the generation of an assessment interface in the graphical user interface by the recipient I O subsystem. In some embodiments this assessment interface includes a plurality of user prompts and a plurality of user input regions.

After the assessment packet has been delivered the process proceeds to block wherein one or several alerts are generated and or sent. In some embodiments these one or several alerts can be generated and or sent by the server in response to for example the incrementing timer exceeding for example a trigger value indicating a maximum allowable time for response to one or several data packets for completion of a module and or for communicatively coupling of the devices . In some embodiments one or several alerts can be generated and sent if the decrementing timer reaches zero and or a sufficiently large negative number before the communicative coupling of the devices . In some embodiments one or several alerts can be generated and sent if the assessment packet is not received and or responded to in a desired time frame and or if the response to the assessment packet indicative an unsatisfactory response to the assessment packet.

In some embodiments for example the generation and the sending of one or several alerts can include the retrieval of one or several trigger values also referred to herein as threshold values from the threshold database . In some embodiments the one or several parameters relevant to the trigger value can be periodically compared to the trigger value. In some embodiments an alarm can be triggered and then generated and sent when the one or more of the one or several parameters relevant to the trigger value exceeds the trigger value. In some embodiments this can occur when the value of the incrementing timer exceeds the trigger value and or when the value of the decrementing timer is less than the trigger value.

In some embodiments one or several alerts can be generated and sent based on one or several electrical signals received from the recipient user device . In some embodiments the supervisor device can receive the alert from the content management server and automatically provide alert data in user interpretable outputs via the supervisor I O subsystem in response to receipt of the alert. In some embodiments the alert data identifies the user associated with the alert and identifies a remedial action for resolving the cause of the alert. In some embodiments the alert can be code such as computer code that can direct the supervisor device to provide an indicator of the received alert. In some embodiments the indicator of the received alert can be one of an aural indicator a tactile indicator and a visual indicator.

After the alert has been generated and sent the process proceeds to block wherein user data is updated. In some embodiments this can include updating the user data stored within the user profile database . In some embodiments this update can identify for example progress through the module response progress for one or several data packets progress for one or several assessment packets or the like. After the user data has been updated the process proceeds to decision state wherein it is determined if the module identified in block is now complete. If it is determined that the module is not complete then the process returns to block and proceeds as outlined above. If it is determined that the module is complete then the process proceeds to block wherein the user data is updated to indicate the completeness of the module.

With reference now to a flowchart illustrating one embodiment of a process for delivering one or several data packets is shown. The process can be performed by the content distribution network and specifically by some or all of the components of the content distribution network . In some embodiments the process can be performed in the place of or as a part of blocks and of . The process begins at block wherein a delivery set is identified. In some embodiments the delivery set can comprise the data packets of a module. In some embodiments these data packets can be delivery data packets and or assessment data packets. In some embodiments the delivery set can be identified based on information stored in the database server and specifically in the content library database of the database server .

After the delivery set has been identified the process proceeds to block wherein the data packets in the delivery set are identified. In some embodiments this can include for example identification of the delivery packets in the delivery set. In some embodiments this identification can be performed based on information stored in the content library database which information can link data packets and modules.

After the data packets in the delivery set are identified the process proceeds to block wherein one of the data packets in the delivery set is selected and delivered to the recipient user device . In some embodiments this can include retrieving information relating to the data packets such as for example the difficulty of the data packet and or retrieving information relating to the user such as for example one or several user attributes including for example the user skill level. In some embodiments the data packets can be selected and provided to the recipient user device in a predetermined order and in some embodiments the delivery order of the data packets can be customized based on for example the data relating to the user and or to the data packets. In some embodiments a value indicative of selection can be associated with each data packet as it is selected and or delivered and in some embodiments the presentation interface can be updated to indicate receipt and or completion of a data packet when the data packet is received at the recipient user device and or when the response to the data packet is provided by the recipient user device . In some embodiments an incrementing timer can be started with the selection and or delivery of the data packet.

After the data packet is selected and or provided the process proceeds to block wherein a response is received from the recipient user device by the server . In some embodiments this response can comprise an indication of the receipt of the data packet one or several responses to questions and or prompts in the data packet or associated with the data packet or the like. In some embodiments the incrementing timer can be stopped and or reset with the receipt of the response from the recipient user device.

After the response has been received the process proceeds to block wherein user data is updated. In some embodiments the user data stored in the user profile database can be updated with for example information contained in the response and or based on the response. In some embodiments this update to the user data can include identification of one or more received and or completed data packets an update to the user s skill level or the like.

After the user data has been updated the process proceeds to decision state wherein it is determined if there is an additional delivery packet. In some embodiments this can include determining if all of the data packets in the delivery set have been provided to the user. If there are additional un provided data packets then the process returns to block and proceeds as outlined above. If there are no additional data packets then the process continues to block and proceeds to block of .

With reference now to a flowchart illustrating one embodiment of a process for generating interfaces and alerts in response to a detected action of a recipient user device is shown. The process can be performed by the content distribution network and specifically by some or all of the components of the content distribution network . The process begins at block wherein an initiation request is received. In some embodiments the initiation request can be received from the recipient user device by for example the content management server via the communication network . The initiation request can comprise an electrical signal including a request for starting of a module which module can be a group of data packets tasks and or interactions.

After the initiation request has been received the process proceeds to block wherein a placement interface is generated. In some embodiments this can include the generating and sending of one or several electrical signals from the server to the recipient user device directing the recipient user device and specifically directing the I O subsystem of the recipient user device to generate a placement interface in the graphical user interface. After receipt of the one or several electrical signals from the server by the recipient user device the recipient I O subsystem can generate the placement interface. In some embodiments the placement interface can comprise one or several windows or areas for questions or requests and or one or several windows or areas for receiving one or several response from the user of the recipient user device .

After the placement interface has been generated the process proceeds to block wherein the user placement is determined. In some embodiments this can include the determination of one or several user attributes such as the user skill level. These one or several attributes can be determined via one or several user interactions with the placement interface and or with content presented to the user via the placement interface. In some embodiments these interactions between the user and the placement interface can result in the generation and sending of one or several electrical signals from the recipient user device to the server which one or several electrical signals can be evaluated to determine the one or several attributes of the user.

After the user placement has been determined the process proceeds to block wherein a presentation interface is generated. Specifically in some embodiments the server can generate and send one or several electrical signals directing the recipient user device and particularly directing the I O subsystem of the recipient user device to generate a presentation interface.

In some embodiments the presentation interface can include multiple pages such as for example a home page and a module page. With reference now to one embodiment of home page of a presentation interface is shown. The home page can include a module progress tracker that can indicate a user progress through a current module and specifically the user s progress through a delivery set. The home page can include a coupling tracker including the decrementing timer. The coupling tracker can track completion of the coupling with the supervisor device and or the amount of time until the scheduled coupling. The home page can include a tracking region that can include information relating to the completion status such as completion percent of one or several current or previous modules or delivery sets. In some embodiments the home page can include a feedback region that can include feedback information relating to the communicative coupling. In some embodiments the home page can include an assessment region that can include information relating to one or several assessment packets and or user performance on one or several assessment packets.

With reference now to one embodiment of a module page of a presentation interface is shown. The module page can include a unit listing that can identify some or all of the units in a module. As used herein a unit can include one or several data packets such as delivery data packets and or assessment data packets communicative coupling or the like.

In some embodiments the unit listing can further include one or several visual indicators of the completion status of one or several of the units in the module. In some embodiments this visual indicator can be a color of the unit listing an icon or the like. The module page can further include one or several start icons . In some embodiments the start icons can allow selection of one or several of the units. In some embodiments the start icon can be a first start icon such as an arrow when a unit is available or a second start icon such as a lock when a unit is unavailable.

After the presentation interface is generated the process proceeds to block wherein one or several delivery data packets are provided to the user via the recipient user device and or the presentation interface. In some embodiments these one or several delivery data packets can be selected and or provided in accordance with process of or any of the steps of process of .

After the delivery data packets have been provided the process proceeds to block wherein the coupling interface is generated. In some embodiments the generating of the coupling interface can include the server generating and sending one or several electrical signals directing the recipient user device and the supervisor device and particularly directing the I O subsystems of the recipient user device and of the supervisor device to generate a coupling interface. In some embodiments the coupling interface can include one or several features configured to facilitate an interactive meeting between the user of the recipient user device and the user of the supervisor device . In some embodiments these features can include for example one or several windows or regions configured to show an image of the users such as for example a live image of the users one or several windows or regions configured to show content such as content relating the interactive session or the like.

After the coupling interface has been generated the process proceeds to block wherein the assessment interface is generated. In some embodiments generating the assessment interface can include the generating and or sending of a signal by the server to the recipient user device directing the generation of an assessment interface in the graphical user interface by the recipient I O subsystem. In some embodiments this assessment interface includes a plurality of user prompts and a plurality of user input regions. In some embodiments the assessment interface can include a first portion identifying one or several tasks for completion as part of the assessment and a second portion configured to gather data relating to the completion of those one or several tasks. With reference now to one embodiment of the assessment interface is shown. As depicted in the assessment interface includes first portions prompting the user for an input and second portions in which the user can provide an input.

After the assessment interface has been generated the process proceeds to block wherein an assessment input is received. In some embodiments the assessment input can comprise the user provided inputs in the second portions of the assessment interface . In some embodiments these inputs can be a self assessment of the user s performance in completion of the one or several tasks associated with the assessment interface . In some embodiments the assessment input can be received by the server from the recipient user device via the communications network .

After the assessment input has been received the process proceeds to block wherein the user data is updated. In some embodiments the user data can be updated to indicate the user s progress through the module and or through one or several of the data packets and or the communicative coupling. In some embodiments the user data can be updated in the database server and particularly in the user profile database .

After the user data has been updated the process proceeds to block wherein a dashboard interface is generated. In some embodiments generating the dashboard interface can include the generating and or sending of a signal by the server to the supervisor user device directing the generation of the dashboard interface in the graphical user interface by the recipient I O subsystem. In some embodiments this dashboard interface includes information identifying one or several users and or one or several user attributes such as progress through one or several selected modules.

With reference now to one embodiment of the dashboard interface is shown. The dashboard interface includes a status bar . The status bar identifies a group of users under the supervision of the user of the supervisor device and the progress status of those users. In some embodiments this progress status can include identifying onboarded users users in progress users requiring assistance or attention and or the total number of users.

The dashboard interface can further include a listing of one or several users. The listing can include a column that can be entitled subscribers that can include an identifier of each of the users and or a column that can be entitled status that can include an icon indicating a user status such as onboarded in progress or attention required. The listing can include other columns including a column entitled start date identifying a start date for a user a column entitled level identifying a skill level of the user a column entitled course identifying a module of a user and or a column entitled schedule identifying whether a time for communicative coupling of the recipient user device and the supervisor device is scheduled.

After the dashboard interface has been generated the process proceeds to block wherein one or several dashboard inputs are received. In some embodiments these one or several inputs can include for example the selection of one or several users for an intervention special action or the like. In some embodiments the one or several dashboard inputs can be received by the server from the supervisor device .

A number of variations and modifications of the disclosed embodiments can also be used. Specific details are given in the above description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it is understood that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques may be shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments.

Implementation of the techniques blocks steps and means described above may be done in various ways. For example these techniques blocks steps and means may be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. For a hardware implementation the processing units may be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors other electronic units designed to perform the functions described above and or a combination thereof.

Also it is noted that the embodiments may be described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a swim diagram a data flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a depiction may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed but could have additional steps not included in the figure. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. When a process corresponds to a function its termination corresponds to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.

Furthermore embodiments may be implemented by hardware software scripting languages firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages and or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware scripting language and or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a machine readable medium such as a storage medium. A code segment or machine executable instruction may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a script a class or any combination of instructions data structures and or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters and or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

For a firmware and or software implementation the methodologies may be implemented with modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. Any machine readable medium tangibly embodying instructions may be used in implementing the methodologies described herein. For example software codes may be stored in a memory. Memory may be implemented within the processor or external to the processor. As used herein the term memory refers to any type of long term short term volatile nonvolatile or other storage medium and is not to be limited to any particular type of memory or number of memories or type of media upon which memory is stored.

Moreover as disclosed herein the term storage medium may represent one or more memories for storing data including read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic RAM core memory magnetic disk storage mediums optical storage mediums flash memory devices and or other machine readable mediums for storing information. The term machine readable medium includes but is not limited to portable or fixed storage devices optical storage devices and or various other storage mediums capable of storing that contain or carry instruction s and or data.

While the principles of the disclosure have been described above in connection with specific apparatuses and methods it is to be clearly understood that this description is made only by way of example and not as limitation on the scope of the disclosure.

