---

title: Inquiry skills tutoring system
abstract: An assessment engine includes a definition of inquiry skills being assessed. Assessment models are used to infer skill demonstration as one or more students engage in inquiry within computerized simulations and/or microworlds. A pedagogical agent and/or help system provides real-time feedback to one or more students based on the assessment model outputs, and/or based on additional models that track one or more students developing proficiency across inquiry tasks over time. A pedagogical agent and/or help system for science inquiry tutoring responds in real-time on the basis of knowledge-engineered and data-mined assessment and/or tracking models.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09564057&OS=09564057&RS=09564057
owner: Worcester Polytechnic Institute
number: 09564057
owner_city: Worcester
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160519
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 167 215 filed Jan. 29 2014 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 759 668 filed on Feb. 1 2013. The entire teachings of the above applications are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was supported in whole or in part by contract NSF DRL 1008649 from National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Current course management systems such as assessment systems or leaning environments are designed for well defined domains i.e. those for which there are well known well defined solutions to problems. For example current systems assess students using multiple choice questions e.g. Moodle or simple equations e.g. mathematics software such as the ASSISTments System developed by Neil Heffernan at Worcester Polytechnic Institute WPI . Learning systems are lacking in areas addressing ill defined domains where solutions are not well defined e.g. design abstract problem solving or conducting science experiments .

Embodiments of the present invention address the above shortcomings of the art. Inquiry tutoring systems and methods focus on assessing tracking and supporting one or more students scientific inquiry skills as they conduct inquiry in real time within simulations and or microworlds. The inquiry tutoring system leverages a pedagogical agent and or help system capable of assessing what a student is doing as the student or to any user learner or person that is engaged in any form of education or learning conducts experiments and or investigations and may determine when and whether a student needs help. The agent is further configured to respond to the student in real time to provide hints and guidance about how to better conduct inquiry.

In one embodiment a method system or program product comprises in a processor defining one or more measurable science inquiry skills or practices. The method system or program product may further include in a computer measuring the one or more science inquiry skills of a subject person the measuring being in real time and using at least one of an assessment model and a tracking model an assessment model and or a tracking model programmed to infer evaluate assess derive measure characterize science inquiry skill demonstration from interactive engagement by the subject person with a simulation and or microworld environment comprised of the simulation and or microworld and optionally other interfaces to elicit the subject person s scientific inquiry. The measuring of the one or more science inquiry skills of a subject person may be performed by an assessment model and or a tracking model. The method system or program product may further provide to the subject person real time feedback through the simulation environment the real time feedback being based on the assessment model the tracking model or both and providing to the subject person guidance on how to better conduct scientific inquiry.

In another embodiment the assessment model and or tracking model evaluates and estimates proficiency at science inquiry of the subject person using different data mining based algorithms. In another embodiment the assessment model and or tracking model evaluates and estimates proficiency at science inquiry of the subject person using different knowledge engineering based algorithms. In another embodiment the assessment model and or tracking model evaluates and estimates proficiency at science inquiry of the subject person using a combination of different knowledge engineering based algorithms and data mining based algorithms.

In another embodiment the measuring of one or more science inquiry skills provides a performance assessment of at least one or more aggregate science inquiry skills.

In another embodiment the tracking model tracks the subject person s development of the one or more science inquiry skills over time and across one or more science topics or science domains wherein the tracking utilizes one or more data mining based models. In yet another embodiment the tracking uses the one or more data mining based models to aggregate information about the subject person and to provide at least one measurement or evaluation of the proficiency for the subject person in one or more science inquiry skills.

In another embodiment the tracking model tracks the subject person s development of the one or more science inquiry skills over time and across one or more science topics or science domains wherein the tracking utilizes one or more knowledge engineering based models. In yet another embodiment the tracking uses the one or more knowledge engineering based models to aggregate information about the subject person and to provide at least one measurement or evaluation of the proficiency for the subject person in one or more science inquiry skills.

In another embodiment the tracking model tracks the subject person s development of the one or more science inquiry skills over time and across one or more science topics or science domains wherein the tracking utilizes both one or more data mining based models and knowledge engineering based models. In yet another embodiment the tracking uses the one or more data mining based models and knowledge engineering based models to aggregate information about the subject person and to provide at least one measurement or evaluation of the proficiency for the subject person in one or more science inquiry skills.

In another embodiment the real time feedback is based on at least one of a knowledge engineering based assessment model a data mining based assessment model a knowledge engineering based tracking model and a data mining based tracking model.

In another embodiment the simulated scientific inquiry includes at least one of generating hypotheses collecting data interpreting the collected data warranting claims with data and communicating respective findings. In another embodiment providing real time feedback through the simulation environment includes providing multi level feedback regarding at least one of orienting organizational procedural conceptual and instrumental aspects of the scientific inquiry. In yet another embodiment the real time assessment and feedback may be generated based on a student s eye tracking patterns during the various phases of inquiry including the observation of data phenomena. An embodiment may employ eye tracking methods such as an Instruction System With Eyetracking based Adaptive Scaffolding in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 774 981 or other methods to detect whether a subject person is actively observing data phenomena in the simulated scientific inquiry.

In another embodiment skills include at least at least one of or any subskill of a data collection skill a data interpretation skill a hypothesis skill a claim warranting skill a communicating findings skill an identification of an independent variable skill an identification of a dependent variable skill a defining of a relationship between variables skill a designing a controlled experiment skill a testing a stated hypothesis skill a warranting an interpretation skill and a relating an interpretation to a hypothesis skill.

The inquiry tutoring approach differs from current systems and provides several advantages. First some embodiments focus specifically on assessment of inquiry subskills culled from more general inquiry skills defined in national and state frameworks. The system measures these skills subskills within simulation and or microworld environments which thus act as performance assessment of inquiry skills. Second the system assesses and scaffolds inquiry skills in real time as students conduct their investigations. As described in more detail below the inquiry tutoring system assesses defined inquiry skills subskills using data mining based and or knowledge engineering based models. The system also tracks the development of specific inquiry skills subskills using data mining based models and or knowledge engineering based models. The system also employs a pedagogical agent and or help system to provide feedback to students driven by the data mining based and or knowledge engineering based assessment and tracking models.

A computer implemented method for inquiry tutoring may include defining one or more measurable science inquiry skills subskills comprising general science inquiry skills. For example general science inquiry skills may include hypothesizing experimenting interpreting data warranting claims and communicating findings. Subskills may include for example but are not limited to identifying an independent variable identifying a dependent variable defining a relationship between one or more variables designing a controlled experiment testing a stated hypothesis warranting an interpretation relating an interpretation to a hypothesis communicating findings and or the like. In one embodiment the inquiry tutoring method may include measuring the one or more inquiry skills subskills in a subject person. Measuring skills subskills may occur in real time and use an assessment engine programmed to infer derive measure evaluate inquiry skill subskill demonstrations from interactive engagement by the subject person with a simulation environment designed for scientific inquiry.

In other embodiments the general science inquiry skills may be science practices general inquiry skills or the like. Such skills include but are not limited to the following a asking questions b developing working models c planning and carrying out investigations d analyzing and interpreting data e using mathematical and computational thinking f constructing explanations g engaging in argument from evidence h obtaining evaluating and communicating information.

In other embodiments the general science inquiry skills may be engineering design practices general engineering skills or the like. Such skills include designing models for engineering including but not limited to environmental engineering industrial engineering biomechanical engineering mechanical engineering chemical engineering software engineering computer engineering electrical engineering or other types of engineering. General science skills may also include engineering skills such as engineering design practices. Subskills here may include specifying a parameter for a design and testing the viability of that parameter using a controlled experiment then interpreting the viability of that parameter for the design.

Embodiments may provide to the subject person real time feedback through a simulation and or microworld environment wherein real time feedback is based on output from an assessment engine a tracking engine or both. The inquiry tutoring method may also provide feedback through guidance on how to better conduct scientific inquiry. In one embodiment an assessment engine estimates proficiency of the subject person using different data mining based algorithms. A data mining algorithm may include formulating data retrieval and organizing the retrieved data. In one embodiment an assessment engine may include knowledge engineered rules assessing performance of one or more science inquiry skills subskills. In another embodiment the assessment engine may also include data mined rules to assess performance of one or more ill defined domains in which there are multiple correct solutions or paths or well defined domains for which there are well known well defined solutions to problems science inquiry skills subskills. In yet another embodiment the assessment engine may include both knowledge engineered rules and data mined rules. In one embodiment the measuring of science inquiry skills subskills provides a performance assessment of science inquiry skills.

The inquiry tutoring method may also include tracking the subject person s development of the science inquiry skills subskills over time and across shared science domains. In one embodiment tracking utilizes one or more data mining based models. Tracking may use data mining based models to aggregate information about the subject person and to provide estimates of whether the subject person knows the science inquiry skills or not. In one embodiment tracking utilizes one or more knowledge engineering based models. In another embodiment tracking utilizes one or more data mining based models and or knowledge engineering based models.

In yet another embodiment the inquiry tutoring method may include both an assessment engine and a tracking engine. In one embodiment the assessment engine and the tracking engine may include knowledge engineered based models. In another embodiment the assessment engine and the tracking engine may also include data mined rules to assess and track performance of one or more ill defined science inquiry subskills. In yet another embodiment the assessment engine and the tracking engine may include both knowledge engineered rules and data mined rules.

The inquiry tutoring methods may include a simulated scientific inquiry. The simulated scientific inquiry may include the subject person generating hypotheses collecting data to test the hypotheses interpreting the collected data warranting claims with data and communicating his findings. In another embodiment providing real time feedback through the simulation environment includes providing multi level feedback including but not limited to procedural instrumental orienting organizational and conceptual aspects of the scientific inquiry. The subject person using the inquiry tutoring method may include one or more users e.g. one or more students apprentices trainees groups teams and or the like. In addition the science inquiry subskills may include at least for example a hypothesizing skill an experiment design skill a data collection skill a data interpretation skill a claim warranting skill and a communicating findings skill.

Another embodiment of the present invention may include a system including a processing module configured to define one or more measurable science inquiry subskills forming general science inquiry skills. The system may also include a computing module configured to measure in real time the one or more science inquiry subskills of a subject person and use an assessment model and or a tracking model programmed to evaluate measure determine and or track science inquiry skill subskill demonstration from interactive engagement by the subject person with a simulation environment for scientific inquiry. The system may also include a user interface module configured to provide to the subject person real time feedback through the simulation environment the real time feedback being based on the assessment model. In one embodiment an assessment model may assess the subject using at least one of a data mining and or knowledge engineering based model. In another embodiment a tracking model may track the subject using at least one of a data mining and or knowledge engineering based model. In another embodiment an assessment model may assess and the tracking model may track the subject using data mining or knowledge engineering based models. In addition the user interface module may be further configured to provide guidance to the subject person on how to better conduct scientific inquiry.

In another embodiment of the system of the present invention the assessment model and or the tracking model may estimate and track proficiency of science inquiry of the subject person using different data mining based or knowledge engineering based algorithms. The assessment models and or the tracking models may be formed from knowledge engineered rules assessing performance of one or more well defined science inquiry skills subskills and the assessment and or tracking models may be formed from data mined rules to assess performance of one or more ill defined science inquiry skills subskills. In the system the computing module may provide a performance assessment of the one or more science inquiry skills by measuring one or more science inquiry skills. In the system the assessment models and or tracking model may further perform tracking of the subject person s development of the one or more science inquiry skills subskills over time and across shared science domains wherein the tracking utilizes one or more data mining based models.

In another embodiment of the system of the present invention the assessment model and or the tracking model use the one or more data mining based models to aggregate information about the subject person and to provide estimates of whether the subject person knows the one or more science inquiry skills or not and the real time feedback is further based on the one or more data mining based models and or knowledge engineering based models from the tracking. In the system the simulated scientific inquiry includes the subject person generating hypotheses collecting data to test the hypotheses interpreting the collected data warranting claims with data and the subject person communicates respective findings. In the system the user interface module is further configured to provide real time feedback through the simulation environment by providing multi level feedback regarding orienting organizational procedural conceptual and instrumental aspects of the scientific inquiry such as for example a hypothesizing skill an experiment design skill a data collection skill a data interpretation skill a claim warranting skill and a communicating findings skill.

Another embodiment of the present invention may include a computer program product providing a tutoring agent. The computer program product may include a non transitory computer useable medium having a computer readable program. The computer readable program when executed on a computer may cause the computer to define one or more measurable science inquiry subskills underlying general science inquiry skills. The program may also measure the one or more science inquiry subskills of a subject person the measuring being in real time and using an assessment model programmed to infer by which we mean evaluate measure etc. science inquiry subskill demonstration from interactive engagement by the subject person with a simulation environment for scientific inquiry. The program may also perform tracking of the subject person s development of the one or more science inquiry subskills over time and across shared science domains. The program may also provide to the subject person real time feedback through the simulation environment the real time feedback being based on the assessment models. In addition the program may provide to the subject person guidance on how to better conduct scientific inquiry.

In accordance with the above in an example embodiment the present methods systems and apparatuses comprise defining one or more measurable science inquiry subskills forming general science inquiry skills. A computer then measuring the one or more inquiry subskills of a subject person said measuring being in real time and using assessment models programmed to infer inquiry subskill demonstration from interactive engagement by the subject person with a simulation environment for scientific inquiry. The methods systems and apparatuses then provide to the subject person real time feedback being based on the assessment models and provide to the subject person guidance on how to better conduct scientific inquiry.

A description of embodiments follows. The teachings of all patents published applications and references cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

As used herein infer and inferring may include but are not limited to evaluating assessing deriving measuring characterizing a value or a set of values.

As used herein well defined may include but are not limited to domains for which there are well known well defined solutions to problems.

As used herein ill defined may include but are not limited to domains for there are multiple correct solutions or paths.

As used herein student may include but are not limited to any user learner or person that is engaged in any form of education or learning.

As used herein an estimate may include but is not limited to measurements based on metrics or indices obtained by the present methods and systems.

Inquiry skills may provide an indication of a user s proficiency with a technical area. Current systems do not adequately capture a user s ability to inquire because of the reliance on hand scoring of data and or on multiple choice tests that do not represent and measure proficiencies of science inquiry skills. The inquiry tutoring system of the present invention defines a general set of skills and a specific set of skills. The inquiry tutoring system further defines captures and maintains a set of educational log data for collection from one or more simulation environments. Based on the data collected the inquiry tutoring system determines whether the educational log data indicates a skill having reached a level of proficiency. From the proficiency determination the inquiry tutoring system may provide real time feedback through a help system associated with the simulation environment wherein real time feedback is based on output from assessment and or tracking engine or models. In one embodiment the help system may be a pedagogical agent.

The assessment engine may include measurable skills knowledge engineered rules and models and data mined rules and models . Measurable skills may be culled from a more general or a specific set of inquiry skills defined in a framework including but not limited to a national or state framework. For example general inquiry skills may include but are not limited to generating hypotheses collecting data to test the hypotheses interpreting the collected data warranting claims with data or communicating respective findings. Specific inquiry skills may include for example identifying an independent variable identifying a dependent variable defining a relationship between a variable designing a controlled experiment testing a stated hypothesis warranting an interpretation relating an interpretation to a hypothesis and or the like. Specific inquiry skills may be referred to as sub skills. In one embodiment the assessment engine is in communication with the tracking component the help system and the user interface over a network. The help system may be a pedagogical agent. The assessment engine may include components communicating with or among other components residing on or with other engines or agents.

The assessment engine may include a knowledge engineered rule base . The knowledge engineered rule base may include a hypothesis rule base an experiment rule base an analysis rule base a warranting claims rule base and or the like. The assessment engine may include data mining based assessment algorithms rules and models . A data mining based assessment algorithm may include maintaining data mining information e.g. educational log data summary features of those log data streaming data data that lives in computer memory and assessing the data mining information. In one embodiment a data mining based assessment at may include a decision tree with cutoff values for specific features. The cutoff values may be used by the assessment engine to infer or predict whether the educational log data indicates that a user demonstrates proficiency in one or more skills. The knowledge engineered rules and models and the data mining rules and models may assess the performance of one or more well defined science inquiry skills. The knowledge engineered rules and models and the data mining rules and models may assess the performance of one or more ill defined science inquiry skills.

The help system may be in communication with user interface or through one or more engines or components e.g. the assessment engine and or tracking component as illustrated in . In one embodiment the pedagogical agent and or help system may include a computer based character providing feedback to users in the form of messages such as text graphics and multimedia. For example the agent may respond through one or more messages in real time as users are interacting with the user interface simulation environment and or the like. The messages from the help system may be driven by the assessment engine through knowledge engineered and or data mined assessment rules and models. In one embodiment the pedagogical agent and or help system may provide feedback based on tracked user performance user performance across different science domains and or user performance over time. This is accomplished through data mining based models and or knowledge engineered based models described below. The assessment may also be real time where the help system processes historical and or real time educational log data with real time input e.g. responses from a user to messages from the pedagogical agent and or help system .

As noted above the pedagogical agent and or help system may interact with a user as the user conducts an inquiry within one or more simulation environments. As the user is working within the simulation environment the assessment engine may conduct an assessment for a given skill e.g. skill A. Based on the assessment the pedagogical agent and or help system determines an appropriate feedback message regarding skill A. As the student engages further with the simulation environment the assessment engine continues to evaluate assess user proficiency for skill A and continues to conduct assessment of skill A which may be provided to the help system for determining a feedback message to provide to the student.

The tracking component may include measurable skills data mining based models and knowledge engineered based models . One or more of the models may include one or more aggregate and or estimate models. Estimate may include but is not limited to measurements based on metrics or indices obtained by the present methods and systems. The models may be searchable by query search or graph search. For example a query search may include formulating keywords and or query statements such as SELECT FROM WHERE. The models and may also be graph searchable by skill by topic by student and by grade. Data mining may be accomplished by combining aggregating results from query statements with graph searches. In one embodiment the tracking component may track user progress over time using Bayesian knowledge tracing. For example tracking user progress may include storing educational log data for an individual student in a database record. Tracking may also include tracking progress for a class of students students of a grade level a school population a district a state and or a geographical region over time. As a student or user engages in several inquiry activities the inquiry tutoring system includes data mined based models and knowledge engineered based models that aggregate this information and provide estimates of the student s proficiency within the set of inquiry subskills. This information may be syndicated to the pedagogical agent and or help system to utilize in determining one or more messages to display to the user or may be syndicated to a teacher to provide formative assessment feedback about student progress. In one embodiment Bayesian knowledge tracing models populate the database record field s indicating proficiency estimates at a skill s and thus inquiry skill per student. Similarly in response to the pedagogical agent and or help system sharing a scaffolding message to the student the assessment engine populates or otherwise indicates pertinent data in the database record of the student. This enables subsequent reporting to a teacher of the student s progress per sub skill.

The user interface may be in communication with the assessment engine tracking component and or pedagogical agent and or help system . In one embodiment the user interface may display the simulation environment to the user with the pedagogical agent and or help system appearing when the help system decides a message should be delivered using assessments generated by the assessment engine . In another embodiment the pedagogical agent and or help system may appear based on information generated from the tracking component .

As illustrated in the simulation user interface may also include a goal interface element and a Myhypothesis interface element . The goal and or Myhypothesis interface elements may receive input from one or more users or display output regarding a status within the simulation environment. For example the goal interface element may display a specific goal the system wants the user to reach. In one embodiment the Myhypothesis element may allow a user to submit input regarding a hypothesis derived from collecting data and interpreting the data from the explore phase . The simulation user interface may also include a data collection frame a model visualization frame a data visualization frame an analysis frame and a findings or word processing frame . The model visualization frame may include but are not limited to a simulation a microworld or an animation including but not limited to a flash or HTML5 CSS JavaScript animation. Upon determination from the pedagogical agent and or help system that the user desires or requires feedback or assistance one or more messages may be provided. The simulation user interface may include other types of frames examples of which are seen in .

Referring back to assessment for simulation based inquiry learning may include models developed through 1 knowledge engineering and or cognitive task analysis and 2 models developed through data mining and or machine learning methods. In knowledge engineering and or cognitive task analysis approaches rules are defined a priori and encapsulate specific behaviors or differing levels of systematic experimentation and or inquiry skill. For example knowledge engineered rules may include a rule based Adaptive Control of Thought Rational ACT R model of scientific inquiry based on an assessment of skill differences between experts and novices on formulating hypotheses exploring analyzing data and generating conclusions. The ACT R model may be used to model overt observable human behavior s . The rule base describes cognition as involving declarative knowledge i.e. knowledge about things and procedural knowledge i.e. skills that act on knowledge procedural knowledge is implemented in ACT R models as production rules.

With ACT R in mind knowledge engineering models may be leveraged using a method called model tracing where student responses are matched to a knowledge engineered cognitive model of expert and or correct behavior that includes declarative knowledge and production rules and in some cases specific misconceptions including but not limited to bugs or defects. In one embodiment model tracing may be used with production rules to auto score students inquiry on the use of the control of variables CVS strategy and more broadly on designing controlled experiments where all but the target variable is changed across trials within a simulation such as a science microworld. See for example the following publications that are hereby incorporated by reference Sao Pedro M. A. Social Science and Policy Studies Learning Sciences and Technologies Program Ph.D. Dissertation Worcester Polytechnic Institute April 2013 Gobert J. D. Sao Pedro M. A. Baker S. J. d. Toto E. and Montalvo O. Journal of Educational Data Mining 4 1 2012 111 143.

Knowledge engineered models may also be leveraged to track student proficiency at inquiry skills over time and across science topics. For example a rational model may average students performance over time at an inquiry skill subskill as an estimate i.e. a measure or evaluation of their proficiency. See for example the following publication that is hereby incorporated by reference Sao Pedro M. A. Baker Ryan S. J. d. Gobert J. D. Montalvo O. and Nakama A. . User Modeling and User Adapted Interaction 2013 23 1 1 39.

With respect to data mining based models educational data mining and or machine learning approaches may be employed and include discovering student inquiry behaviors from data. For example a self organizing artificial neural network may build models of novice and expert performance using transition logs within a given learning environment for example a high school chemistry class. These models may be leveraged to construct a hidden Markov model for identifying learner trajectories through a series of activities.

Data mining approaches at may be used to distinguish students problem solving strategies within exploratory learning environments. For example clustering techniques and class association rules may capture learner models of effective and ineffective learning strategies within an exploratory learning environment for learning about a constraint satisfaction algorithm. In one embodiment a constraint satisfaction algorithm may include identifying a constraint setting a threshold for satisfying the constraint and or determining whether the constraint satisfaction has been met. In another embodiment a decision tree with cutoff values for certain features may be used as an assessment model to evaluate whether a student has demonstrated an inquiry subskill. See for example the following publications that are hereby incorporated by reference Sao Pedro M. A. Baker Ryan S. J. d. Gobert J. D. Montalvo O. and Nakama A. . User Modeling and User Adapted Interaction 2013 23 1 1 39 Sao Pedro M. A. Social Science and Policy Studies Learning Sciences and Technologies Program Ph.D. Dissertation Worcester Polytechnic Institute April 2013 . Data mining models may also be used with a task dependent and or a task independent machine learned model to predict skill proficiency in computer desktop applications.

Data mining approaches at may also be used to track student inquiry skill and sub skill proficiency development over time and across simulation topics domains. For example Model tracing assessments and other approaches may be in turn utilized within knowledge tracing. In one embodiment knowledge tracing may include assessing latent knowledge from correct and incorrect performance. Knowledge tracing models may be implemented as a form of Bayesian Networks and or Bayes nets BNs . For example BNs may assess procedural knowledge for physics within various learning environments. A dynamic BN may model middle school students narrative strategic and curricular knowledge as students explore a three dimensional 3D immersive environment on microbiology. In one embodiment BN s may include or utilize related diagnostic measurement tools to model multivariate skill profiles for network engineering based on performance in an interactive digital learning environment. In another embodiment data mined assessment models may be utilized within knowledge tracing. See for example the following publications that are hereby incorporated by reference Sao Pedro M. A. Baker Ryan S. J. d. Gobert J. D. Montalvo O. and Nakama A. . User Modeling and User Adapted Interaction 2013 23 1 1 39 Sao Pedro M. A. Baker Ryan S. J. d. Gobert J. D. Incorporating Scaffolding and Tutor Context into Bayesian Knowledge Tracing to Predict Inquiry Skill Acquisition. In S. K. D Mello R. A. Calvo A. Olney Eds. 6 pp. 185 192 . Memphis Tenn.

In one embodiment the IA Platform may be connected to and or communicate with entities such as but not limited to one or more users from user input devices e.g. Flash SD SSD peripheral devices e.g. a simulation environment an optional cryptographic processor device and or a communications network . Networks are commonly thought to comprise the interconnection and interoperation of clients servers and intermediary nodes in a graph topology. It should be noted that the term server as used throughout this application refers generally to a computer other device program or combination thereof that processes and responds to the requests of remote users across a communications network. Servers may serve their information to requesting client s . The term client as used herein refers generally to a computer program other device user and or combination thereof that is capable of processing and making requests and obtaining and processing any responses from servers across a communications network. Various client server architecture and configurations are suitable as well as other than a client server architecture is suitable. For example a web based system may be utilized to implement the present invention as well as a monolithic running on one machine or semi monolithic system e.g. installed and running on a tablet that send data to a server .

The processor and or transceivers may be connected as either internal and or external peripheral devices e.g. sensors via the I O ports . In turn the transceivers may be connected to antenna s thereby effectuating wireless transmission and reception of various communication and or sensor protocols. The CPU comprises at least one high speed data processor adequate to execute program components for executing user and or system generated requests. Embedded components may include software solutions hardware solutions and or some combination of both hardware software solutions. Storage interfaces e.g. data store may accept communicate and or connect to a number of storage devices such as but not limited to storage devices removable disc devices solid state drives SSD and or the like. Storage interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to Ultra Serial Advanced Technology Attachment Packet Interface Ultra Serial ATA PI Enhanced Integrated Drive Electronics E IDE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1394 fiber channel Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI Universal Serial Bus USB and or the like.

Network card s may accept communicate and or connect to a communications network . Through a communications network the IA Platform is accessible through remote clients e.g. computers with web browsers by users. Network interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to direct connect Ethernet thick thin twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T and or the like Token Ring wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11a x and or the like. A cloud service may be in communication with the IA Platform. The cloud service may include a Platform as a Service PaaS model layer an Infrastructure as a Service IaaS model layer and a Software as a Service SaaS model layer . The SaaS model layer generally includes software managed and updated by a central location deployed over the Internet and provided through an access portal. The PaaS model layer generally provides services to develop test deploy host and maintain applications in an integrated development environment. The IaaS layer model layer generally includes virtualization virtual machines e.g. virtual servers virtual desktops and or the like.

Input Output interfaces I O may accept communicate and or connect to user input devices peripheral devices cryptographic processor devices and or the like. Peripheral devices may be connected and or communicate to I O and or other facilities of the like such as network interfaces storage interfaces directly to the interface bus system bus the CPU and or the like. Peripheral devices may be external internal and or part of IA Platform. Peripheral devices may include eye tracking equipment antenna audio devices e.g. line in line out microphone input speakers etc. cameras e.g. still video webcam etc. dongles e.g. for copy protection ensuring secure transactions with a digital signature and or the like external processors for added capabilities e.g. crypto devices force feedback devices e.g. vibrating motors network interfaces printers scanners storage devices transceivers e.g. cellular GPS etc. video devices e.g. goggles monitors etc. video sources visors and or the like. Peripheral devices often include types of input devices e.g. cameras .

Generally any mechanization and or embodiment allowing a processor to affect the storage and or retrieval of information is regarded as memory. It is to be understood that the IA Platform and or a computer systems may employ various forms of memory. In a typical configuration memory includes ROM RAM a cache and a storage device. A storage device may be any conventional computer system storage. Storage devices may include a fixed and or removable magnetic disk drive a magneto optical drive an optical drive an array of devices e.g. Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID solid state memory devices USB memory solid state drives SSD etc. other processor readable storage mediums and or other devices of the like. Thus a computer system generally requires and makes use of non transitory and or transitory memory.

A user interface component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU . The user interface may be a graphical user interface such as simulation user interface and provided by with and or atop operating systems and or operating environments. The user interface may allow for the display execution interaction manipulation and or operation of program components and or system facilities through textual and or graphical facilities. The user interface provides a facility through which users may affect interact and or operate a computer system . A user interface may communicate to and or with one or more other components collectively and in in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like.

The structure and or operation of any of the IA Platform engine set may be combined consolidated and or distributed in any number of ways to facilitate development and or deployment. Similarly the component collection may be combined in any number of ways to facilitate deployment and or development. To accomplish this one may integrate the components into a common code base or in a facility that may dynamically load the components on demand in an integrated fashion. The Engine Set components may be consolidated and or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing and or development techniques. Multiple instances of any one of the program components in the program component collection may be instantiated on a single node and or across numerous nodes to improve performance through load balancing and or data processing techniques. Furthermore single instances may also be distributed across multiple controllers and or storage devices e.g. databases. All program component instances and controllers working in concert may do so through standard data processing communication techniques. The component collection may be components for implementing system or system described above in respectively.

The configuration of the IA Platform depends on the context of system deployment. Factors such as but not limited to the budget capacity location and or use of the underlying hardware resources may affect deployment requirements and configuration. Regardless of whether the configuration results in more consolidated and or integrated program components results in a more distributed series of program components and or results in some combination between a consolidated and distributed configuration data may be communicated obtained and or provided. Instances of components consolidated into a common code base from the program component collection may communicate obtain and or provide data. This may be accomplished through intra application data processing communication techniques such as but not limited to data referencing e.g. pointers internal messaging object instance variable communication shared memory space variable passing and or the like.

In certain embodiments the procedures devices and processes described herein constitute a computer program product including a computer readable medium e.g. a removable storage medium such as one or more DVD ROM s CD ROM s diskettes tapes etc. that provides at least a portion of the software instructions for the system. Such a computer program product may be installed by any suitable software installation procedure as is well known in the art. In another embodiment at least a portion of the software instructions may also be downloaded over a cable communication and or wireless connection.

Embodiments may also be implemented as instructions stored on a non transitory machine readable medium which may be read and executed by one or more processors. A non transient machine readable medium may include any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computing device . For example a non transient machine readable medium may include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices and others.

It should be understood that the example embodiments described above may be implemented in many different ways. In some instances the various methods and machines described herein may be implemented by a physical virtual or hybrid general purpose computer or a computer network environment such as the computer network environment . A general purpose computer may be transformed into the machines that execute the methods described above for example by loading software instructions into memory or nonvolatile storage for execution by a central processing unit.

Embodiments or aspects thereof may be implemented in the form of hardware firmware or software or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the software may be stored on any non transient computer readable medium that is configured to enable a processor to load the software or subsets of instructions thereof. The processor then executes the instructions and is configured to operate or cause an apparatus to operate in a manner as described herein.

Further firmware software routines or instructions may be described herein as performing certain actions and or functions of data processors. However it should be appreciated that such descriptions contained herein are merely for convenience and that such actions in fact result from computing devices processors controllers or other devices executing the firmware software routines instructions etc.

It also should be understood that the flow diagrams block diagrams and network diagrams may include more or fewer elements be arranged differently or be represented differently. But it further should be understood that certain implementations may dictate the block and network diagrams and the number of block and network diagrams illustrating the execution of the embodiments be implemented in a particular way.

Accordingly further embodiments may also be implemented in a variety of computer architectures physical virtual cloud computers one or more servers one or more clients and or some combination thereof and thus the data processors described herein are intended for purposes of illustration only and not as a limitation of the embodiments.

While this invention has been particularly shown and described with references to example embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the scope of the invention encompassed by the appended claims.

For example further details of other embodiments may be found in at least the following three publications that are hereby incorporated by reference 1 Sao Pedro M. A. Baker R. S. J. d. and Gobert J. D. 2012 In Proceedings of the 20th Conference on User Modeling Adaptation and Personalization Montreal QC Canada 2012 249 260 2 Sao Pedro M. A. Baker R. S. J. d. Gobert J. D. Montalvo O. and Nakama A. User Modeling and User Adapted Interaction 2013 23 1 1 39 3 Gobert J. D. Sao Pedro M. A. Baker S. J. d. Toto E. and Montalvo O. Journal of Educational Data Mining 4 1 2012 111 143 Gobert J. D. Sao Pedro M. A. Raziuddin J. Baker R. S. Journal of the Learning Sciences 22 521 563 2013 .

