---

title: Illumination device for performing videography and photography with mobile devices
abstract: Illumination devices may be provided with one or more light sources that emit light of the same, similar, and/or different optical spectra within a wavelength range, for example, from the extreme ultraviolet (UV) to the far infrared (IR). One or more of the light sources may be selectively adjusted to control the overall mix of light projected onto a scene of interest. For example, one or more light sources may be used, and sometimes in conjunction with other optical elements, to provide illumination having a particular angular intensity distribution, color temperature, and/or other desired optical properties for a scene within a field of view (FOV) of the camera of a mobile device used for videography and/or photography. One or more illumination devices may also be used as flashlights and/or as sources of electrical power for recharging mobile devices. Related methods are provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09618827&OS=09618827&RS=09618827
owner: SureFire, LLC
number: 09618827
owner_city: Fountain Valley
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160114
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 104 038 filed Jan. 15 2015 and entitled LIGHTING DEVICE WITH REFLECTIVE NON PARABOLOIDAL BEAM SHAPING OPTICS AND LIGHTING DEVICE ATTACHMENT FOR MOBILE DEVICES which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 169 491 filed Jun. 1 2015 and entitled ILLUMINATION DEVICE FOR PERFORMING VIDEOGRAPHY AND PHOTOGRAPHY WITH MOBILE DEVICES which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This application is related to U.S. patent application No. Ser. 14 996 135 filed Jan. 14 2016 and entitled REFLECTIVE NON PARABOLOIDAL BEAM SHAPING OPTICS which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 996 178filed Jan. 14 2016 and entitled LIGHTING DEVICE ATTACHMENT FOR MOBILE DEVICES which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In some embodiments the present invention generally relates to beam shaping optics for lighting devices lighting device attachments for mobile devices portable illumination devices for performing videography and photography with mobile phones and other mobile devices and the use of such portable illumination devices as flashlights and as sources of electrical power for the recharging of batteries in mobile devices.

Lighting devices such as flashlights headlamps and others typically include reflective optics for projecting light from a light source from the lighting device. Conventional reflective optics for projecting light onto distant objects are typically paraboloidal in shape. Paraboloidal reflective optics produce a narrow collimated beam centered on a wide angle surround beam of much lower intensity. The peak intensity produced by such optics can approach the maximum peak intensity value theoretically achievable using a given light source for a specified exit pupil area. However the surround beam intensity outside the central collimated portion of beams produced by paraboloidal reflective optics is typically lower than would be preferred by most users even for viewing objects at relatively short ranges.

In addition the beam quality i.e. beam smoothness produced by a paraboloidal reflector is often poor in the central collimated region due to imaging of various structures in the light source. For this reason the paraboloidal shape of the reflector is often modified slightly by the addition of texturing on the surface of the reflector. This texturing has the effect of diffusing the collimated portion of the output thereby producing a smoother collimated output. The texturing is often created by spraying droplets of a viscous liquid onto the reflector s surface and allowing it to solidify. The effect of such texturing on the optical output is difficult to control so considerable trial and error in spraying the droplets is often required to achieve satisfactory results. An alternative to such texturing is to place a refractive diffuser behind a protective cover glass of the flashlight. However this increases the cost of the flashlight and reduces the light output due to Fresnel reflection.

Paraboloidal reflectors also generate a surround beam that commonly extends out to off axis angles beyond which the light is of benefit to the typical user. It would be preferable in most cases to transfer some or all of this light to angular regions closer to the optical axis. This can sometimes be achieved by reducing the focal length of the paraboloid thereby producing a deeper reflector that collects and collimates more of the light from the source and reduces the angular width of the surround beam. However in many cases reducing the focal length can be difficult or impossible due to the need to avoid a reflective surface that is impractically close to the light source and prevents providing sufficient space for the light source to be mounted with adequate clearance. It would therefore be desirable to provide improved reflectors for lighting devices.

Mobile devices such as cameras smartphones tablets personal digital assistants laptop computers and others often include one or more light sources such as light emitting diode light LED light sources. These light sources are sometimes operated in conjunction with an image sensor in the mobile device to capture still or video images by using the light sources to illuminate the imaged scene. In other applications the light sources are sometimes used as a temporary substitute for a flashlight.

The ever present consumer demand for lighter and smaller devices and for longer battery life in the devices poses a challenge to provide light sources in mobile devices that provide sufficient illumination illumination of a desirable color and or illumination with an effective beam shape for image capture and other scene illumination purposes without creating undesirably bulky or power hungry devices. It would therefore be desirable to provide improved lighting capabilities for mobile devices.

Mobile devices such as cameras smartphones tablet computers personal digital assistants laptop computers and other similar devices generally include one or more built in illuminators that utilize light sources such as light emitting diodes LEDs . These built in illuminators are operated in conjunction with a camera in the mobile device to supplement ambient illumination when capturing still and or video imagery at short ranges e.g. several feet . Such illuminators are sometimes also used as backup flashlights.

The built in illuminators in current mobile devices generally provide inadequate illumination under low ambient lighting conditions for still photography and especially for videography at substantially longer image capture ranges e.g. up to 50 feet . Even for scenes illuminated by moderate to high levels of ambient light these built in illuminators often fail to provide adequate supplemental illumination to reduce image contrast to acceptable levels when there are large differences in the level of ambient illumination between different regions within a scene to be imaged e.g. a person standing in a shaded area with a light colored sun illuminated building in the background . Therefore there is a need for improved illuminators capable of producing significantly higher intensity levels for use with mobile devices.

Due to constraints on weight volume shape e.g. thickness and available electrical power it is difficult to incorporate into a given mobile device a built in illuminator that provides adequate performance over a wide range of commonly encountered ambient lighting conditions particularly in the case of small mobile devices such as mobile phones and also particularly for videography. Therefore a stand alone portable illumination device that can be utilized as needed with one or more mobile devices can provide significant performance benefits relative to built in illumination devices.

There is demand among some consumers for the ability to reduce or eliminate unnatural color casts in images captured by cameras in mobile devices via adjustment of the color temperature of the light produced by the illuminator The built in illuminators in most current mobile devices have no capability for adjustment of the color temperature. Although color casts can be adjusted in post processing of images e.g. using Photoshop or similar software it would be far preferable particularly in the case of video imagery to use an illuminator with an adjustable color temperature.

The output angular beam widths and beam shapes provided by built in illuminators in the vast majority of current mobile devices are rotationally symmetrical and non adjustable even though the horizontal and vertical field of view FOV of still and video imagery captured by a given mobile device can vary greatly depending on its settings e.g. zoom setting or video format setting . The light projected by an illuminator outside the camera s FOV does not contribute to illuminating the scene being captured and represents a waste of energy. It may therefore be desirable to provide illuminators with adjustable beam widths and beams shapes for use with mobile devices.

Various techniques are provided to control the beam shape of a light beam projected by a lighting device. For example the lighting device may include a non paraboloidal monolithic beam shaping reflector. The reflector may be a monolithic structure that generates a high quality output beam without requiring the use of texturing or a diffuser while providing significantly higher surround beam intensity levels within a desired angular extent than could be produced by a paraboloidal reflector having the same aperture size.

The monolithic beam shaping reflector may be a monolithic reflective optical element having an internal surface that defines a cavity within which a light source such as a light emitting diode LED light source can be at least partially disposed to emit light onto the internal surface. The internal surface may be a non paraboloidal reflective surface having longitudinal undulations that generates a light beam having the desired intensity levels at different angles off axis. The internal surface may be faceted or non faceted. For example in some embodiments the internal surface may include a plurality of facets each having longitudinal undulations. A monolithic beam shaping reflector with a faceted internal surface may have longitudinal undulations and an axial asymmetry latitudinally about a symmetry axis of an order that is equal to the number of facets. The symmetry axis of a faceted reflector may coincide with an optical axis of the reflector. The faceted internal surface may have a profile in any plane containing the surface s symmetry axis that includes longitudinal undulations.

In another example the internal surface may be a non faceted non paraboloidal surface having longitudinal undulations. A monolithic beam shaping reflector with a non faceted internal surface may be a smoothly continuous surface that includes longitudinal undulations and that has axial symmetry of approximately infinite order latitudinally about a symmetry axis. The symmetry axis of a non faceted reflector may also coincide with an optical axis of the reflector.

Undulations on the internal surface of the reflector in cooperation with the facets in embodiments in which the internal surface is also faceted may smooth the light beam eliminating spatial beam structure that would otherwise be produced by a reflector such as an untextured paraboloid that forms far field images of structure present in the light source.

In faceted embodiments as a result of the faceting the reflector may have a cross section that is a regular polygon such as a 20 sided polygon. That is the shape of the intersection of the reflective surface with any plane perpendicular to the optical axis may be a regular polygon such as a 20 sided regular polygon centered on the optical axis of the reflector. The reflector may have an aperture defined by an opening that is opposite to an opening in which the light source is disposed. The aperture of a faceted reflector may have an aperture size defined as the diameter of the circle that intersects the center of each side of the polygonal exit pupil. The reflector may have a shape profile in a plane that passes through both the symmetry axis of the reflective surface and the center of one of the facets that includes smooth continuous longitudinal undulations.

The reflector may be substantially longer than a paraboloidal reflector having the same aperture size thereby reducing the angular extent of the surround beam and providing relatively more light to angular regions that are closer to the center of the beam where it may be of greater benefit to a typical user.

In one embodiment a lighting device is provided that includes a light source adapted to project light and a reflective optical element having an internal surface a cavity defined by the internal surface a first opening at a first end a second opening at an opposing second end a plurality of facets on the internal surface that each extend continuously and longitudinally from the first opening to the second opening in which each of the plurality of facets has a surface that forms a portion of the internal surface in which the surface of each of the plurality of facets includes longitudinal undulations in which the light source is disposed at least partially within the cavity and configured to project the light onto the internal surface and in which the internal surface is configured to reflect the light from the light source to generate a light beam.

In another embodiment a method of making the lighting device is provided that includes providing the light source providing the reflective optical element inserting the light source through the first opening and at least partially into the cavity and coupling the light source to the reflective optical element such that when illuminated by the light source the internal reflective surface generates the light beam.

In another embodiment a method of operating a lighting device includes illuminating by generating a light beam with a light source and a monolithic reflective optical element with an aperture size a first portion of a scene with a first brightness that is less than a brightness in the first portion of a light beam of a paraboloidal reflector with the same hole size aperture size and light source illuminating with the light beam generated by the light source and the monolithic reflective optical element with the aperture size a second portion of the scene with a second brightness that is greater than a brightness in the second portion of the light beam of the paraboloidal reflector with the same hole size aperture size and light source and illuminating with the light beam generated by the light source and the monolithic reflective optical element with the aperture size a third portion of the scene with a third brightness that is less than a brightness in the third portion of the light beam of the paraboloidal reflector with the same hole size aperture size and light source in which the second portion surrounds the first portion and in which the third portion surrounds the second portion.

In another embodiment a monolithic reflective optical element is provided that includes an internal reflective surface a cavity defined by the internal surface a first opening at a first end a second opening at an opposing second end a plurality of facets on the internal surface that each extend continuously and longitudinally from the first opening to the second opening in which each of the plurality of facets has a surface that forms a portion of the internal surface in which the surface of each of the plurality of facets includes longitudinal undulations and in which the internal surface is configured to reflect light from a light source disposed at least partially within the cavity to generate a light beam.

In another embodiment a monolithic reflective optical element is provided that includes an internal reflective surface a cavity defined by the internal surface a first opening at a first end a second opening at an opposing second end longitudinal undulations on the internal surface that extend continuously and longitudinally from the first opening to the second opening and in which the internal surface is configured to reflect light from a light source disposed at least partially within the cavity to generate a light beam.

In another embodiment a lighting device attachment is provided that includes a housing that defines a cavity configured to receive a mobile device and a light source disposed within the housing and configured to operate in cooperation with the mobile device.

In another embodiment a lighting device attachment is provided that includes a housing that defines a housing cavity configured to receive a mobile device a light source adapted to project light and a monolithic reflective optical element including a reflective internal surface that defines a reflector cavity a first opening at a first end a second opening at an opposing second end longitudinal undulations on the reflective internal surface that extend continuously and longitudinally from the first opening to the second opening and where the reflective internal surface is configured to reflect the light from the light source to generate a light beam.

In another embodiment a method is provided that includes attaching a mobile device to a lighting device attachment and operating one or more light sources of the lighting device attachment using a control component of the lighting device attachment or an application of the mobile device.

In another embodiment a lighting device attachment is provided that includes a housing that defines a cavity configured to receive a mobile device a light source disposed within the housing and an optical element adapted to project light from the light source to illuminate an external scene.

In another embodiment a method of operating a lighting device attachment having a housing that defines a cavity configured to receive a mobile device a light source disposed within the housing and an optical element is provided the method including attaching the mobile device at least partially within the cavity and projecting light from the light source with the optical element to illuminate an external scene while the mobile device is attached.

In various embodiments one or more illumination devices and or related methods may be provided with one or more light sources and one or more optical elements to produce one or more beams of light having the same similar and or different spectra and the same similar and or different intensity distributions as a function of angle. In various embodiments such light may be any electromagnetic radiation in a spectral region ranging from the extreme ultraviolet UV to the far infrared IR and may include wavelengths ranging from approximately 10 nm to approximately 106 nm. In some embodiments such light may be provided primarily or exclusively in the visible light band with wavelengths ranging from approximately 390 nm to approximately 770 nm. In some embodiments the flux output by multiple light sources and one or more optical elements may be selectively adjusted electronically to control the output spectrum and or the angular distribution of the intensity of the composite beam of light produced by all the individual sources and the optical elements.

For example multiple light sources may be used and sometimes in conjunction with one or more optical elements to provide a combined output illumination beam with adjustable color temperature for use with the camera of a mobile device.

In various embodiments the multiple light sources may emit light along appropriate optical axes to produce a combined non rotationally symmetric illumination beam comprised of the overlapping projected light beams produced by the multiple light sources. By selectively electronically adjusting the flux output of the different light sources the intensity as a function of angle of the combined output beam may be adjusted. As a result such an illumination device could be adapted to provide the appropriate output beam shape for any camera setting to produce high quality imagery and to reduce drain on the battery by reducing the amount of light projected outside the camera s FOV.

In some embodiments an illumination device as described herein may be attached to a mobile device and used to illuminate an area of interest with a desired beam pattern and or spectrum to supplement and or replace a flash or other existing illumination device of the mobile device. As a result still images or video images captured by a camera of the mobile device may be illuminated in a manner that is superior to conventional techniques that merely rely on a conventional illumination device of the mobile device.

In various embodiments the illumination device may also be used as a flashlight and its battery may be used to recharge the batteries in portable devices.

In another embodiment a portable illumination includes a housing and one or more light sources disposed within the housing and adapted to provide corresponding light beams to selectively illuminate an external area of interest with a combined light beam having a desired output optical flux level a desired angular intensity distribution a desired color temperature and or a desired optical spectrum to provide illumination for images captured by a camera of a mobile device.

In another embodiment a portable illumination device includes a housing a plurality of light sources disposed within the housing and configured to provide corresponding light beams having independently adjustable output flux levels and wherein the light beams at least partially overlap to provide a combined light beam to provide illumination for images of an external area of interest captured by a camera of a mobile device separate from the housing.

In another embodiment a method includes providing a portable illumination device comprising a housing and one or more light sources disposed within the housing operating the light sources to provide corresponding light beams to selectively illuminate an external area of interest with a combined light beam having a desired output optical flux level angular intensity distribution color temperature and or optical spectrum and capturing images of the illuminated external area of interest using one or more cameras of a mobile device

In another embodiment a method includes providing a portable illumination device comprising a housing and one or more light sources disposed within the housing operating the light sources to provide corresponding light beams having independently adjustable output flux levels wherein the light beams at least partially overlap to provide a combined light beam and capturing by a camera of a mobile device separate from the housing images of an external area of interest illuminated by the combined light beam.

In another embodiment an illumination device includes a housing one or more light sources disposed within the housing and adapted to project light from the housing to illuminate an area of interest external to the housing one or more batteries disposed within the housing and adapted to provide electrical power to the light sources and an attachment mechanism adapted to selectively secure the illumination device to a mobile electronic device.

In another embodiment a method includes providing a mobile electronic device providing an illumination device comprising a housing one or more light sources disposed within the housing and adapted to project light from the housing to illuminate an area of interest external to the housing one or more batteries disposed within the housing and adapted to provide electrical power to the light source and an attachment mechanism and selectively securing the illumination device to the mobile electronic device by the attachment mechanism.

The scope of the invention is defined by the claims which are incorporated into this section by reference. A more complete understanding of embodiments of the present disclosure will be afforded to those skilled in the art as well as a realization of additional advantages thereof by a consideration of the following detailed description of one or more embodiments. Reference will be made to the appended sheets of drawings that will first be described briefly.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures.

In accordance with various embodiments provided herein a lighting device may be provided having a beam shaping reflector. For example in some embodiments such a lighting device may include a monolithic reflective optical element having an internal surface that defines a cavity in which the internal surface is faceted or non faceted and includes longitudinal undulations extending outwards. The longitudinal undulations and the non paraboloidal shape of the reflective internal surface cooperate to shape the beam of light generated by the lighting device. In various embodiments longitudinal undulations may extend outwards along the shape profile from a rearward hole to the exit pupil.

Referring now to the drawings wherein the showings are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure only and not for purposes of limiting the same provides a perspective view of a lighting device in accordance with embodiments of the disclosure. As shown lighting device may be a flashlight including a head and a body . Head may include various components for producing and controlling light e.g. a light beam directed toward a scene such as an area of interest. Body may include various components for providing power to produce the projected light.

Head may include an optical element that receives light projected from a light source not shown and shapes the light into a desired beam shape e.g. having a desired direction and spread profile . In some embodiments optical element may be implemented as an optical reflector having a reflective internal surface having a non paraboloidal shape and surface features such as undulations and or facets that cooperate to shape the light beam.

An exploded perspective view of lighting device is shown in in accordance with an embodiment. As shown in head may include a front housing portion a washer a transparent protective cap such as a glass or transparent plastic cover reflector an internal mounting structure a lighting stack having a light source a circular mounting member and a conductive ring . Body may include a battery a conductive spring an O ring and a rear housing portion . Body may also be provided with external accessories such as a clip e.g. a keychain ring and or a loop e.g. a loop formed on body for coupling a keychain ring .

Light source may be implemented for example as a light emitting diode LED an incandescent light bulb a tungsten halogen light bulb a fluorescent light bulb a high intensity discharge light bulb or any other singular or plural light source devices.

Reflector may be mounted within front housing portion . Internal mounting structure may be configured to receive a rearward end of reflector and a forward end of lighting stack so that light source is located within an opening of reflector within mounting structure . A forward end of mounting structure may be inserted into front housing portion so that a front end of reflector is mounted against transparent protective member . In this way reflector may be arranged to project light from light source through opening in front housing portion along optical axis .

As discussed above reflector may have an internal surface with a non paraboloidal shape and longitudinal undulations and can be provided with or without facets. Various views of a reflector implemented with facets are shown in . For example a top side perspective view of reflector is shown in according to an embodiment. As shown in reflector may have an internal surface and an external surface . The internal surface may extend from a first opening at a rearward end of reflector to a second opening at a forward end of reflector such that the internal surface defines a cavity . Rear opening may be defined by an edge . Opening may be defined by an edge .

Internal surface may be a reflective surface that when illuminated by light source generates a light beam. Internal surface may include facets that extend from opening to opening . Each facet may be an undulating facet that includes longitudinal undulations along the facet running between opening and opening . As shown reflector may include a lip at the forward end that runs around the periphery of the forward end. Lip may provide a structure for mounting and positioning reflector into lighting device . For example lip may overhang the external surface of reflector so that a rearward surface of lip rests against internal mounting structure see when the reflector is installed in the device. Lip may include one or more structures such as a flat portion . For example flat portion may be an alignment feature configured to be received by a corresponding flat portion not shown of internal support structure .

Facets may extend to the edges and so that edges and each define a polygonal hole e.g. openings and at each end of reflector . In the example of opening and opening each are sided polygonal holes formed by the ends of facets. However this is merely illustrative. In other embodiments reflector may include any suitable number of facets or reflector may include no facets at all.

Facets and lip may be formed as separate structures or may be formed as a single monolithic structure. For example reflector may be a single molded monolithic structure.

In the view of reflector is shown rotated with respect to the view of so that all sides of rear opening are visible. A rear view of reflector is shown in . As shown in lip may include a rear facing surface e.g. a surface configured to rest against or otherwise be positioned adjacent to a corresponding surface of internal support structure . A rearmost surface may be a flat surface that when mounted in lighting device rests against or is otherwise positioned adjacent to a forwardmost surface of lighting stack .

When mounted in lighting device light source may extend at least partially through opening and into cavity so that light source can emit light onto internal surface to generate a desired light beam. As shown in the rear view of surface of reflector may include one or more molded features such as surface feature . As examples surface feature may be a branding feature e.g. a part number or company identifier or an alignment feature.

In the view of reflector is shown rotated with respect to the view of to show a rear side perspective view showing rear surface external surface flat portion of lip surface and some of facets visible through opening . is a face on view of reflector showing the regular polygonal shape of openings and . is a side view of reflector showing how lip may include an overhang and external surface may have a curved and undulating faceted shape that mirrors the shape of internal surface . However this is merely illustrative. External surface may have any suitable shape that allows mounting of reflector and light source with light source configured to provide light within cavity .

Undulations and facets may cooperate to reflect light from light source to form a light beam for lighting device having a desired shape as described in further detail hereinafter.

Opening may be relatively larger than opening . As shown in opening may have a width WR that defines a rear hole size for the reflector. Width WR may for example be between 3 millimeters mm and 5 mm between 1 mm and 10mm between 3.5 mm and 4.5 mm less than 5 mm less than 10 mm greater than 1 mm or greater than 3 mm. As shown in opening may have a width WF. Width WF as measured between two parallel opposing sides of opening may define a clear aperture width of reflector . Width WF may for example be between 9 mm and 11 mm between 5 mm and 15 mm between 9.5 mm and 10.5 mm less than 15 mm less than 20 mm greater than 1 mm or greater than 5 mm.

As shown undulations may be wavelike surface variations that run longitudinally between opening and opening . In other embodiments undulations may be formed on only a portion of internal surface and other portions of internal surface may be smooth. Internal surface may be substantially free of texturing structures such as texturing features and texturing material.

Internal surface may have a shape that is relatively narrower than a paraboloid having an aperture of the same size. As discussed above in connection with the aperture of reflector may be defined by opening .

As can be seen in the shape profile of internal surface of reflector includes smooth longitudinal undulations formed from alternating concave portions and convex portions . These undulations in combination with the facets in some embodiments provide the desired intensity levels of the light beam generated by lighting device at different angles off axis from the optical axis of lighting device . In addition the undulations and facets smooth the output beam eliminating spatial beam structure that would otherwise be produced by a reflector such as an untextured paraboloid that forms far field images of structure present in the light source. As shown in shape profile is non paraboloidal with or without the undulations .

It can also be seen in that the beam shaping reflector may be substantially longer than a paraboloidal reflector having the same aperture size e.g. an aperture size of 10 mm . This has the desirable effect of reducing the angular extent of the surround beam of the generated light beam allowing more light to be sent to angular regions in mid range off axis angles closer to the center of the beam where it can be of greater benefit to a typical user.

Surface plots of the illuminance distributions produced respectively by reflector and a paraboloidal reflector having the same aperture size on a plane 3 m from their exit pupils are shown respectively in with the corresponding horizontal and vertical illuminance profiles provided respectively in . Significant levels of high spatial frequency structure can be seen near the center of the beam profile produced by the paraboloidal reflector in . This is due to imaging of spatial structures in the LED source and would likely require surface texturing or a refractive diffuser to eliminate which can undesirably increase the cost and production complexity along with undesirably adding weight and size. Since this structure is not observed in the output beam of the beam shaping reflector lighting device can be provided without texturing on the reflector surface and without a refractive diffuser to produce a smooth output beam.

As shown in beam may include portions A B and C corresponding to portions A B and C of the intensity distribution of that are respectively relatively fainter brighter and fainter than the corresponding portions of the beam generated by a paraboloidal reflector. Using a lighting device such as lighting device having a beam shaping reflector a user may therefore be a able to light a scene by illuminating with a light beam generated by a light source and a monolithic reflective optical element with an aperture size a first portion of a scene e.g. portion A with a first brightness e.g. brightness A that is less than a brightness e.g. brightness A of a light beam of a paraboloidal reflector with the same aperture size and hole size and using the same light source illuminating a second portion of the scene e.g. portion B with a second brightness e.g. brightness B that is greater than the brightness e.g. B of the light beam of the paraboloidal reflector with the same aperture size and hole size and using the same light source and illuminating a third portion of the scene e.g. portion C with a third brightness e.g. brightness C that is less than the brightness e.g. brightness C of the light beam of the paraboloidal reflector with the same aperture size and hole size and using the same light source in which the second portion B surrounds the first portion A and the third portion C surrounds the second portion B.

At block a light source such as light source of may be provided. The light source may for example be a light emitting diode LED light source. The light source may be mounted to a lighting stack such as lighting stack that includes support structures conductive interconnection structures control circuitry such as one or more printed circuit boards and or other components for operating the light source.

At block an optical element may be provided. In one embodiment the optical element may be a monolithic non paraboloidal reflector such as reflector having an internal surface a cavity defined by the internal surface a first opening at a first end a second opening at an opposing second end that defines an aperture having the aperture size longitudinal undulations that extend continuously and longitudinally from the first opening to the second opening and in which the aperture the non paraboloidal surface and the longitudinal undulations are configured to cooperate to form the light beam. In another embodiment the internal surface of the reflector may be faceted. For example the optical element may be a monolithic non paraboloidal reflector such as reflector having an internal surface a cavity defined by the internal surface a first opening at a first end a second opening at an opposing second end that defines an aperture having the aperture size a plurality of facets on the internal surface that each extend continuously and longitudinally from the first opening to the second opening in which each of the plurality of facets has a surface that forms a portion of the internal surface in which the surface of each of the plurality of facets includes longitudinal undulations and in which the plurality of facets the aperture and the longitudinal undulations are configured to cooperate to form the light beam.

At block the light source may be coupled to the optical element. Coupling the light source to the optical element may include inserting some or all of the light source through the first opening in the reflector and at least partially into the cavity so that when operated the light source illuminates the internal surface of the optical element. Coupling the light source to the optical element may include inserting the optical element and the light source into an internal support structure for the lighting device.

At block a housing such as a flashlight housing may be provided. The housing may for example include a front housing portion and a rear housing portion.

At block the light source and the optical element may be installed into the flashlight housing. The light source and the optical element may be installed into the flashlight housing before or after coupling the light source to the optical element.

At block the light source may be electrically coupled to a power terminal in the housing. The power terminal may be a terminal of a power source itself such as a battery terminal or may be conductive structure coupled between the light source and the power source.

At block power may be provided to a light source. The light source may be a light source such as light source in a lighting device such as lighting device . The power may be provided from a power source such as a battery. The power may be provided when a user turns on the lighting device e.g. by pushing a power button twisting a portion of the lighting device moving a switch or the like .

At block a light beam may be generated with the light source and a reflector. The light beam may be generated by emitting light from the light source onto an internal reflective surface that is faceted or non faceted and includes longitudinal undulations running between a rear end of the reflector and a front end of the reflector. The light source may be disposed within a cavity defined by the internal surface. The reflector may be a monolithic non paraboloidal reflector such as reflector as described herein according to various embodiments. The reflector may have an opening that defines an aperture of the reflector. The opening may be a polygonal opening of a faceted reflector or a circular opening in the case of a non faceted reflector. The aperture may have an aperture size.

At block a first portion of a scene may be illuminated with a first portion of the light beam generated by the light source and the reflector with an aperture size. The first portion of the scene may be illuminated with a first brightness that is less than a brightness of a light beam in the first portion produced by a paraboloidal reflector with the same hole size aperture size and light source. The first portion may for example be a region within an angle 8 degrees from the optical axis of the reflector.

At block a second portion of the scene may be illuminated with a second portion of the light beam generated by the light source and the reflector with the aperture size. The second portion of the scene may be illuminated with a second brightness that is greater than a brightness in the second portion of a light beam of a paraboloidal reflector with the same hole size aperture size and light source. The second portion may for example be a region within a range of angles of 8 degrees and 30.5 degrees from the optical axis of the reflector.

At block a third portion of the scene may be illuminated with a third portion of the light beam generated by the light source and the reflector with the aperture size. The third portion of the scene may be illuminated with a third brightness that is less than a brightness in the third portion of a light beam of a paraboloidal reflector with the same aperture size and the same light source. The third region may for example be a region at angles greater than 30.5 degrees from the optical axis of the reflector.

Various views of a reflector implemented without facets are shown in . For example a top side perspective view of reflector having an internal surface that is non paraboloidal and non faceted is shown in according to an embodiment. As shown in reflector may have an internal surface that extends from first opening at a rearward end of reflector to a second opening at a forward end of reflector such that the internal surface defines a cavity . Rear opening may be defined by an edge . Opening may be defined by an edge .

Internal surface may be a reflective surface that when illuminated by light source generates a light beam. Internal surface may be free of facets and may include longitudinal undulations not visible in the perspective view of see that extend from opening to opening . The longitudinal undulations may run between opening and opening . As shown reflector may include a lip at the forward end that runs around the periphery of the forward end. Lip may provide a structure for mounting and positioning reflector into lighting device .

In the embodiment shown in edges and each define a circular hole e.g. openings and at each end of reflector . In the view of reflector is shown rotated with respect to the view of and shown in cross section so that undulations on the non faceted internal reflective surface are visible. As shown in light source may extend at least partially through opening and into cavity so that light source can emit light onto internal surface to generate a desired light beam.

As shown in undulations may be longitudinal undulations. Undulations may include regular undulations and or irregular undulations and may be smoothly continuous undulations running from opening to opening . Undulations may cooperate with the non paraboloidal shape of surface to reflect light from light source to form a light beam for lighting device having a desired shape as described herein.

Because internal surface in the embodiments shown in is non faceted internal surface in these embodiments has axial symmetry of approximately infinite order about the symmetry axis of surface . Internal surface in the embodiments of may have a shape profile in any plane containing the surface s symmetry axis that exhibits longitudinal undulations as described for example in in the context of a faceted internal surface.

As shown in reflector may in some embodiments be mounted at an angle with respect to light source e.g. to direct the generated light beam in a particular desired direction . However this is merely illustrative. In various embodiments a non parabolic undulating reflector with or without facets may be mounted in alignment with a light source disposed at least partially within its cavity or may be mounted an angle with respect to the light source.

Although various embodiments described in connection with have been described using the example of a lighting device implemented as a flashlight this is merely illustrative and a reflector such as reflector may be implemented in any suitable lighting device including for example a lighting device attachment configured to be attached to and provide enhanced lighting capabilities for another device such as mobile electronic device e.g. to provide lighting up to or in excess of 1000 1200 Lumens . In various embodiments such a lighting device attachment may incorporate two or more light sources each paired with its own reflector so that the light sources of the lighting device attachment can be operated to function either as a flashlight or as an illuminator for low light videography and still photography when used in conjunction with a smartphone. show an example of a lighting device attachment in accordance with an embodiment.

As shown in a lighting device attachment such as lighting device attachment may be provided that receives another device such as mobile device e.g. a mobile phone smart phone tablet or other portable electronic device . As shown in

As shown in the example of lighting device attachment may include input output components such as a control device and a port . For example control device may be an external switch such as a rotary switch for activating turning on dimming brightening or deactivating turning off one or more light sources associated with lighting device attachment . Port may for example be a universal serial bus USB port a mini USB port a micro USB port a Portable Digital Media Interface PDMI port a 30 pin connector port a power port or other input output port configured to receive a cable or other connector. Port may be coupled to internal electronic components of lighting device attachment such as one or more batteries memories printed circuits processors or other internal components. As examples port may be used to transfer data such as control settings to and or from lighting device attachment to provide power to one or more light sources within lighting device attachment and or to charge a battery of lighting device attachment . When a charging cable is connected between portion and another device such as a computer while the mobile device is installed in lighting device attachment the mobile device and the computer may be synchronized or synched. A battery disposed in lighting device attachment may be adapted to power the light source of the attachment and may be configured to be charged via an external port e.g. port or the mobile device and the battery or the external port may be adapted to charge an additional battery disposed in the mobile device .

For example as shown in which shows lighting device attachment with mobile device removed lighting device attachment may include a connector disposed at least partially within a cavity configured to receive a mobile device. Connector may for example be a connector having circuitry meeting specifications associated with a particular brand or type of mobile device e.g. a mobile device having an exterior shape corresponding to the shape of cavity . For example connector may extend from within a bottom front portion of the housing of lighting device attachment into cavity and may be a standard connector e.g. a USB connector a PDMI connector or other standard connectors as provided in mobile devices or may be a proprietary connector e.g. an Apple dock connector for iPod iPad and or iPhone such as a Lightning connector or a 30 pin connector .

As shown in cavity may be formed by bottom front housing member housing sidewalls a front surface and a top housing member such as a housing member coupled to engagement member so that when a mobile device is inserted into cavity the mobile device is mechanically secured e.g. by a press fit or by mechanical engagement to lighting device attachment . For example a mobile device port at a bottom end of a mobile device may be placed onto connector engagement members on opposing sides of lighting device attachment may be squeezed simultaneously the top portion of the mobile device may be lowered into cavity and the engagement members may be released to mechanically secure the mobile device to the lighting device attachment .

As shown in front surface may also include an opening such as an opening . Opening may have a position size and shape for accommodating one or more optical elements of a mobile device such as a rear facing camera and one or more light sources e.g. so that the camera of the mobile device can view a scene through opening when the mobile device is attached to lighting device attachment as in .

Referring again to mobile device may have a coupling member e.g. a port such as a 30 pin connector port or a Lightning port that mechanically and or electrically couples to lighting device attachment . In some embodiments lighting device attachment may be communicatively separate from mobile device e.g. mobile device may be attached to lighting device attachment and both device and lighting device attachment may be operated separately and independently without any electrical coupling between the two . In other embodiments mobile device may send and or receive electrical power and or communications signals to and or from lighting device attachment via coupling members and e.g. as indicated by arrows . In this respect coupling member of mobile device may form a connector interface e.g. a wired communication interface including for example circuitry such as one or more processors integrated circuits ports or other circuitry for managing communications with lighting device attachment . Coupling member may foul . a connector interface e.g. a wired communication interface for lighting device attachment including circuitry configured to manage communications with mobile device and or other devices and or to route power to battery e.g. a lithium ion or other battery for charging battery .

As shown mobile device and lighting device attachment may include wireless communication interfaces and respectively which may be implemented with appropriate circuitry such as one or more processors integrated circuits ports antennas or other circuitry for managing wireless communications between mobile device and lighting device attachment e.g. to pass appropriate control signals or data therebetween using Wi Fi Bluetooth and or other communication techniques .

As shown in lighting device attachment may include other components such as processor memory one or more light sources such as light sources one or more optical elements such as optical elements e.g. lenses or reflectors such as one or more of reflector as described herein and user controls e.g. buttons switches or other control mechanisms such as control device of .

Processor may be implemented for example as a microcontroller microprocessor a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC and or any appropriate combination of these or other types of devices.

Memory e.g. implemented as any appropriate type of volatile and or non volatile memory may be used to store instructions and or data. For example in some embodiments memory may be implemented as a non transistory machine readable medium storing various instructions which may be executed by processor to perform various operations such as receiving and processing operating instructions from mobile device . In some embodiments such a machine readable medium may be provided within processor itself e.g. as firmware and or otherwise and or external to processor . Processing may include processing circuitry disposed within the housing of lighting device attachment and configured to receive control signals from the mobile device via the coupling member and to operate the light sources in response to the control signals. The control signals may be generated by an application program interface of the mobile device based on user input.

Light sources may be implemented for example as light sources as described herein e.g. a light emitting diode LED an incandescent light bulb a tungsten halogen light bulb a fluorescent light bulb a high intensity discharge light bulb or any other singular or plural light source devices . Lighting device attachment may include one light source two light sources or more than two light sources. In embodiments in which lighting device attachment includes more than one light source the light sources may generate light of a common wavelength or color or the light sources may generate light of different wavelengths e.g. different colors of visible light such as red light blue light violent light green light or combinations thereof and or invisible light such as infrared light . In embodiments in which the light sources generate light of different colors each light source may generate only or primarily the light of a desired color or the light sources may generate light of the desired color and additional colors and one or more filters may be provided e.g. within or external to the light source to prevent the additional colors from being emitted from lighting device attachment . For example two light sources may include an LED that produces relatively cool or blue colored light and another LED that produces relatively warm or red colored light.

Lighting device attachment may include one or more optical elements associated with each light source. For example each light source may be disposed at least partially within a reflector that shapes the light into a beam that is projected from lighting device attachment onto an area of interest such as a scene viewed within the field of view of a camera of mobile device .

Using in one embodiment two or more light source reflector pairs allows for additional control of the beam shape because the output beam produced is a melding of the individual beams produced by each light source reflector pair. One embodiment is that of a multiple reflector device in which each of the multiple light source reflector pairs would be mounted with its symmetry axis tilted at a non zero angle e.g. an angle of about 7.5 degrees with respect to one or more of the symmetry axes of the other reflectors in order to produce an oval shaped combined output beam rather than the circular beam produced by a single reflector. An oval shaped combined beam may be a useful beam shape in various applications such as lighting for video and still photography where the desired field of view to be illuminated is typically wider in one direction than in the orthogonal direction e.g. by a ratio of 16 9.

In one embodiment the symmetry axes of the reflectors are oriented at different angles while the light sources would all remain unfilled and mounted in the same plane. This would reduce costs and improve manufacturability by allowing all the light sources to all be mounted on a single flat surface.

The shapes of the multiple reflectors used in a single lighting device attachment could all have identical designs in one embodiment. Alternatively a different design could be used for each reflector to provide more degrees of freedom in creating a desired melded output beam shape in another embodiment.

In one embodiment the multiple light sources used in a single lighting device are identical. Alternatively in another embodiment multiple light sources having different optical output characteristics are used in a single device. For example two or more light sources with different output spectra may be used. By controlling the flux output of each of the multiple light sources the white balance spectrum of the melded output beam as well as the total flux output may be continuously adjusted e.g. during operation of the lighting device attachment . This type of white balance control may be particularly useful in photography and videography.

As shown in mobile device may include various components such as battery display e.g. a liquid crystal display or a light emitting diode display processor memory one or more cameras such as camera e.g. rear facing camera and a forward facing camera light source e.g. one or more LED light sources user controls e.g. buttons switches or touchscreen components and or other components as commonly implemented in mobile devices such as smartphones e.g. positioning circuitry such as global positioning system circuitry GPS one or more accelerometers gyroscopes compasses etc. .

Processor may be implemented for example as a microcontroller microprocessor a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC and or any appropriate combination of these or other types of devices.

Memory e.g. implemented as any appropriate type of volatile and or non volatile memory may be used to store instructions and or data. For example in some embodiments memory may be implemented as a non transistory machine readable medium storing various instructions which may be executed by processor to perform various operations such as operating a lighting device attachment application e.g. an application program interface API for a user for controlling lighting device attachment e.g. for operating light sources to flash turn on turn off or increase or decrease in brightness . In some embodiments such a machine readable medium may be provided within processor itself e.g. as firmware and or otherwise and or external to processor .

Light sources such as light sources may be operated by user controls and or an API of the mobile device. For example hardware controls may be provided with lighting device attachment e.g. an on off switch a rotary encoder buttons etc. and the lighting device attachment may be attached to a mobile device such as a phone in such a way that control signals from the phone operating system or app can be sent to a light controller of the lighting device attachment and manipulations of the hardware controls of the lighting device attachment may be transmitted back to the phone operating system or app.

The hardware controls themselves may directly manipulate the light by causing the light controller to turn on off increase or decrease in intensity or go into a strobe mode as an example. These hardware controls may inform the software app running on the phone that these actions are being taken which would cause the app to update a display indicating to the user the current state of the light emitting device e.g. the light intensity strobe duration etc. . Additionally the app on the phone may receive user inputs from the user causing the light controller of the lighting device attachment to either override the hardware controls of the lighting device attachment or in conjunction with the hardware controls cause the light controller to cause the light being emitted to behave a certain way.

In this way the capabilities of a phone host device may be conferred into the lighting device attachment. In one example use case a GPS controlled lighting device may be provided in which built in GPS functionality of a phone can be accessed and used to activate or deactivate the light source s of an attached lighting device attachment based on a location of the phone and attachment e.g. a GPS determined location provided by the phone s GPS circuitry . In another example use case a motion controlled lighting device may be provided in which an accelerometer of other motion detection circuitry in a phone that is attached to the lighting device attachment can provide information about the motion of the phone and attachment. The information can be provided to processing circuitry in the phone or the attachment which in response to the motion information may cause the light sources of the lighting device attachment to react e.g. turn on turn off flash strobe increase or decrease in brightness etc. based on the orientation rate direction or pattern of movement. In another example use case a network controlled lighting device may be provided in which a phone that is attached to a lighting device attachment acts as a device receiving network signals via the Internet Bluetooth or other communications circuitry or protocols that then cause processing circuitry in the phone or the attachment to react to those signals and operate the light sources of the attachment accordingly e.g. to turn on turn off flash strobe increase or decrease in brightness etc. of the light sources in response to the received network signals . For example the received network signals may be generated by a remote user such as a parent of a child in possession of the phone and attachment e.g. to help locate the child or communicate with the child or by a user of the phone and attachment e.g. to activate the light source to help locate a missing phone or capture an image remotely .

In one embodiment the interface between the lighting device attachment and the phone or other mobile device may be a published or downloadable application programming interface API . The API may be an open API thereby allowing third parties to publish software that can be downloaded on a mobile device to control the light generated by lighting device attachment and or one or more light sources in the mobile device. For example an API may be provided that generates stop motion strobe photography functionality using the phone s camera capabilities in conjunction with timed strobing of the light sources in the lighting device attachment.

A lighting device attachment API on a mobile device may grant software of the mobile device the ability to turn the light sources of the mobile device attachment on and off set the intensity schedule or time durations of light being on with light being off e.g. strobing or signaling and or ramp the intensity from one value to another as examples .

In the example of lighting device attachment includes two reflectors A and B sometimes referred to herein collectively as reflectors . Reflectors of lighting device attachment may receive and reflect light from respective light sources disposed partially within the reflectors as discussed herein to generate light beams of a desired shape e.g. a beam configured to illuminate a scene defined by a field of view of the camera of the mobile device . The light sources for each reflector of lighting device attachment may generate light of a common wavelength or the light sources may generate light of different wavelengths e.g. different colors of visible light such as red light blue light violent light green light or combinations thereof and or invisible light such as infrared light . Reflectors A and B of lighting device attachment may be aligned along substantially parallel optical axes or may be aligned off axis from each other to generate a relatively wider and or a directed combined light beam.

For example as shown in the example rear view of the differing relative positions of rear openings A and B of respective reflectors A and B with respect to the openings A and B in rear housing member in which the reflectors are disposed illustrate how reflectors A and B may be aligned along different e.g. non parallel optical axes in some embodiments. It can also be seen in the rear view of that engagement members may extend from the sides of lighting device attachment so that the engagement members can be gripped and squeezed if desired by a user.

In the front view of lighting device attachment of it can be seen that a rotary member of control device may be disposed behind a recess in a front top housing portion of lighting device attachment to provide a user with access to the rotary member.

Lighting component may be formed from multiple portions such as portions and . Portions and may serve as mechanical support structures and or thermal coupling structures that position internal lighting device housing sometimes referred to herein as a reflector housing and or conduct heat generated by light sources within internal lighting device housing away from a mobile device attached to lighting device attachment . Internal lighting device housing may be aligned with one or more openings in rear housing member so that light sources e.g. using reflectors or other reflectors or lenses are arranged to project light through openings to illuminate an external scene.

Rear housing member may have an additional opening that aligns with a corresponding opening in lighting device component and opening in housing member to form opening in lighting device attachment e.g. for alignment with a camera and or a light source of the mobile device . Printed circuit board may be disposed within lighting device attachment and may include various electrical components integrated circuits processors or other suitable components. For example port circuitry may be coupled to printed circuit board and may be coupled to the external surface of lighting device attachment by a port frame . One or more components as described above in connection with e.g. processor and or memory may be implemented as components such as component on PCB .

Internal circuitry may be coupled to housing member and may route power and or other control signals from battery and or printed circuitry board to light sources disposed in internal light source housing .

Connector device may be mounted in a front portion of lighting device attachment e.g. between front lower housing portion and housing member so that connector extends from front lower housing portion . As shown in control device may be formed from a rotary member control circuitry coupled to rotary member and a mounting member that couples control device to housing member . Internal circuitry may provide conductive couplings between control circuitry printed circuit board and or light sources disposed in internal light source housing so that when rotary member is turned the light sources turn on turn off and or change in brightness.

Although various embodiments have been described in which reflectors face and project light from a rear side of lighting device attachment this is merely illustrative. As shown in in one embodiment lighting device attachment may be provided with a lower portion and an upper portion that is rotatably attached to lower portion e.g. by a pivot so that the upper portion can be rotated as for example indicated by arrows e.g. in a theta direction as indicated in . In the example of top portion in which reflectors and associated light sources not shown are disposed has been rotated to a forward facing position on the same side of lighting device attachment as cavity in which a mobile device may be attached. In this way lighting device attachment may be used in cooperation with a forward facing camera of the mobile device e.g. for capturing a selfie image of the user .

As shown in top portion may be rotated about pivot from the forward facing position of as indicated by arrows toward a rear facing position as shown in in which reflectors are positioned to project light from the rear surface of lighting device attachment e.g. to illuminate a field of view of a rear facing camera of a mobile device that views a scene through opening . As shown a light source e.g. an LED flash of the mobile device may be positioned behind opening . In the embodiments of lighting device attachment includes a lower portion having the cavity configured to receive the mobile device and an upper portion having the light sources e.g. one or more light sources . The upper portion is rotatable with respect to the lower portion from a first position see e.g. to a second position see e.g. in which in the first position the light sources are configured to illuminate a first scene viewed by a first camera of the mobile device that faces away from a user and is disposed on a first side of the mobile device and in which in the second position the light source is configured to illuminate a second scene viewed by a second camera of the mobile device that faces the user and is disposed on an opposing second side of the mobile device.

However the embodiments of are merely illustrative and lighting device attachment may be provided without a rotating top portion. In various embodiments opening may be open or may be provided with a window e.g. a glass or plastic window through which light can be detected by camera of the mobile device .

At block a mobile device such as mobile device see e.g. may be attached to a lighting device attachment such as lighting device attachment . Attaching the mobile device to the lighting device attachment may include coupling a port of the mobile device to a connector of the lighting device attachment and or placing the mobile device within a cavity formed by one or more housing members of the lighting device attachment. Attaching the mobile device to the lighting device attachment may include operating e.g. by squeezing one or more engagement members such as engagement members while inserting the mobile device into the cavity and releasing the engagement members to secure the mobile device within the cavity. When the mobile device is attached to the lighting device attachment one or more light generating elements such as reflectors with associated light sources as described herein may be aligned with an optical element such as a camera and or one or more light sources of the mobile device.

At block the lighting device attachment may be activated. For example the lighting device attachment may be turned on using a switch or button of the lighting device attachment such as a rotary switch as described herein. Activating the lighting device attachment may include providing power from a battery of the lighting device attachment to one or more light sources at least partially disposed in a reflector such as one of reflectors as described herein.

At block a lighting device attachment application on the mobile device may be activated. For example a user may click an icon associated with the application to initiate communication between processing circuitry of the mobile device and processing circuitry of the lighting device attachment e.g. via the connector of the lighting device attachment .

At block one or more light sources of the lighting device attachment may be operated using a control component of the lighting device attachment and or using the lighting device attachment application on the mobile device. For example power may be increased or decreased to the one or more light sources by rotating a rotary switch such as control component of for example or by turning or otherwise adjusting a virtual dimmer or other virtual switch displayed on a touchscreen display of the mobile device or by pressing a real button of the mobile device .

At block a camera and or a light source of the mobile device may be operated in cooperation with the one or more light sources of the lighting device attachment. For example a real or virtual shutter button on the mobile device may be clicked and in response to the click the one or more light sources of the lighting device attachment may be flashed or powered on when the camera of the mobile device captures an image or a video stream. In this way the lighting device attachment may be used to provide a more powerful flash for capturing images and or a more powerful illuminator for capturing video than a light source of the mobile device. If desired one or more light sources of the mobile device may optionally be flashed along with the one or more light sources of the lighting device attachment when an image is captured. In one embodiment prior to capturing the image video while flashing the one or more light sources of the lighting device attachment a rotatable top portion of the lighting device attachment containing the one or more light sources may be rotated to align the one or more light sources with a desired camera e.g. a front facing or rear facing camera of the mobile device.

Although various embodiments for a lighting device attachment having a housing cavity for receiving a mobile device and an associated electrical connector in the cavity for communicatively coupling the lighting device attachment to the mobile device these examples are merely illustrative. In other embodiments lighting device attachment may include an external coupling member rather than a device receiving cavity for attaching the mobile device to the lighting device attachment.

In accordance with various techniques further described herein portable illumination devices may be provided to perform videography and photography with mobile phones and other mobile devices. In some embodiments such portable illumination devices may be implemented in accordance with the various beam shaping reflector embodiments attachment mechanism embodiments and or other embodiments discussed herein where appropriate. Referring now to the additional drawings wherein the showings are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure only and not for purposes of limiting the same show the projection of light provided by an illumination device e.g. also referred to as a lighting device . include a perspective view and an elevational view respectively of illumination device attached to a case with a mobile device disposed at least partially within case . Illumination device may be used as a flashlight and or as an illuminator for videography and still photography when used in conjunction with an electronic device equipped with a built in camera such as mobile device . However as understood by one skilled in the art illumination device may be used with various other cameras and is not restricted to use solely with a mobile phone as illustrated in . For example illumination device may be attached to and used with a mobile device such as a laptop computer tablet computer video camera point and shoot camera SLR camera DSLR camera as well as with various other types of devices used in photography and videography. Since illumination device does not block light emitted by the illumination device e.g. a flash that is built into the mobile device both illumination devices and can if desired be used together for photography videography and or as a flashlight.

In one or more embodiments illumination device may be mechanically coupled to an appropriate mobile device with a compatible mount that may or may not include an electronic coupling to the mobile device e.g. a hot shoe or a cold shoe or may be used without being mechanically coupled to the mobile device for off camera illumination e.g. an off camera flash of scenes being photographed or recorded as videos by the camera in the mobile device. Illumination device can also be used as a flashlight both when it is coupled to the mobile device and when it is not. Even when illumination device is not mechanically coupled to the mobile device it may still be electronically coupled to the mobile device. For example illumination device may be connected to mobile device via a wired connection e.g. via a USB port and cable and or via a wireless connection e.g. a Bluetooth connection . In some embodiments when illumination device is electronically coupled to mobile device one or more applications e.g. apps on the mobile device may be used to control some or all of the various adjustable characteristics of the illumination e.g. flux output or color temperature provided by illumination device .

Camera of the mobile device has an optical axis see that may be substantially perpendicular to a front surface e.g. a lens of camera . Camera has an FOV having a horizontal angle e.g. approximately 50 degrees along the long axis of mobile device and a vertical angle e.g. approximately 30 degrees along the short axis of mobile device that may define a portion of a real world scene captured by camera . FOV may be centered on optical axis both in the horizontal and vertical directions.

In the example of illumination device includes an optical assembly with two light sources A B two reflectors A B and two transparent windows A B placed in front of the reflectors A B to protect the reflectors A B and light sources A B from contamination or damage due to foreign objects and liquids. In some embodiments each of the windows A B may have parallel planar inner and outer surfaces and the inner and or outer surfaces of windows A B may be coated with various materials e.g. thin film interference coatings to reduce reflection losses and or alter the spectrum of light passing through the windows A B.

Thus optical assembly provides two optical trains A B. In this regard optical train A is comprised of light source A its associated reflector A and its associated window A whereas optical train B is comprised of light source B its associated reflector B and its associated window B. Although optical assembly and optical trains A B have been described in terms of various particular components e.g. light sources A B reflectors A B and windows A B additional and or other components may be provided e.g. optical components such as lenses optical filters and or optical diffusers .

The location of optical assembly at a proximate end of illumination device near camera is merely illustrative. In some embodiments optical assembly may be located at an opposing distal end of illumination device away from camera . In this regard increasing the distance of optical assembly from camera in this manner may reduce the degradation of the quality of imagery captured by the camera due to light that is backscattered into FOV of camera from airborne particles illuminated by illumination device in some embodiments.

Reflectors A B may receive and reflect light from respective light sources A B disposed partially within the reflectors as discussed herein. A large fraction of this reflected light may pass through windows A B. In addition a significant fraction of the light emitted by light sources A B may pass directly through windows A B without reflecting off of reflectors A B. The light exiting illumination device through windows A B generates a combined output light beam having a characteristic non rotationally symmetric intensity distribution as a function of vertical and horizontal angular coordinates e.g. a beam configured to illuminate a scene defined by an FOV of the camera of the mobile device . In some embodiments reflectors A B may be implemented for example as non paraboloidal monolithic beam shaping reflectors and or in accordance with any of the various embodiments described and or illustrated in the present disclosure in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 104 038 filed Jan. 15 2015 and or of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 169 491 filed Jun. 1 2015 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Optical trains A B of illumination device may output flux having the same spectrum or they may output flux having different spectra e.g. in some embodiments optical trains A B may both output white light but optical train A may produce light having a spectrum characterized by a warmer color temperature than that produced by optical train B .

In some embodiments using two or more optical trains A B allows for additional control of the shape of the overall light beam provided by illumination device . In this regard the overall light beam is a combination e.g. a melding of individual light beams A B produced by optical trains A B.

In some embodiments reflectors A B of illumination device may be aligned along substantially parallel optical axes. In some embodiments as illustrated in the example embodiments reflectors A B of illumination device may be aligned along respective non parallel optical axes A B also referred herein as symmetry axes tilted off axis from each other by a non zero angle e.g. an angle of about degrees such as angle in to generate a relatively wider combined light beam .

In some embodiments an off axis implementation permits combined light beam to exhibit oval intensity contours e.g. see the intensity distribution of rather than a beam having substantially circular intensity contours as is typically produced by a single axisymmetric reflector. The combined beam having oval intensity contours may be useful in various scenarios such as lighting for video and still photography where the desired field of view e.g. camera FOV to be illuminated is typically wider in one direction than in the orthogonal direction e.g. a ratio of in some embodiments .

For example illumination device may project a directional output light beam from optical assembly . Beam may be a product of the combination of individual beam A and individual beam B produced by optical trains A and B respectively where the angular beam width of beam in at least one meridian e.g. horizontal may be greater than the angular beam widths A B of either of the individual beams A B. For example in some embodiments the angular beam width may correspond to the full angular width at half maximum of the intensity profile of a given beam measured along a straight line parallel to a specified meridian and passing through the beam s peak intensity value.

In one or more embodiments each of the optical trains A B may be separately tilted such that the optical axes A B of the reflectors A B are not parallel to each other and or are not parallel to camera optical axis . For example optical trains A B may be oriented such that optical axes A B may have an angular offset of 15 degrees relative to each other in the horizontal meridian with each axis offset by 7.5 degrees in opposite directions relative to camera optical axis as shown in e.g. one optical train may point 7.5 degrees to the left of the camera optical axis while the other points 7.5 degrees to the right thus providing an overall offset of 15 degrees between optical axes A B . As a result of these angular offsets of the optical trains A B light beams A B may only partially overlap e.g. denoted by overlap area . In other embodiments beams A B may be individually oriented in other directions e.g. independently oriented in two different directions where each direction is defined in terms of a horizontal and or a vertical angular offset relative to camera optical axis .

In one or more embodiments of the present disclosure the combined intensity distribution produced by the light beams A B of optical trains A B may extend significantly beyond the edges of FOV in one or more directions. For example in some embodiments optical assembly may project an output light beam that extends substantially beyond FOV in all angular directions thus compensating for parallax between camera and optical trains A B and allowing for use of illumination device with cameras having varying FOVs e.g. varying FOV sizes and shapes .

In one or more embodiments the optical axes A B of the reflectors A B are oriented at different angles while the light sources A B and or windows A B all remain unfilled. As a result costs may be reduced and manufacturability may be improved by allowing all light sources A B to be mounted on a single flat surface and or a single common window to be used for all the optical trains A B.

In some embodiments light sources used in a single illumination device are identical. Alternatively in other embodiments light sources may be implemented with different optical output characteristics in a single illumination device. For example two or more light sources with different output spectra may be used. By controlling the flux output of each of the multiple light sources the spectrum of the melded output beam as well as the total flux output may be continuously adjusted e.g. during operation of the illumination device . This technique allows for example the color temperature of the white light beam produced by a single illumination device to be adjusted over a useful range thereby providing an effective means for altering color casts in still photographs and videos.

In some embodiments light sources may be implemented as LEDs however other implementations are also contemplated e.g. incandescent light bulbs tungsten halogen light bulbs fluorescent light bulbs high intensity discharge light bulbs or any other singular or plural light source devices . Although two light sources A B are illustrated illumination device may be implemented with one two or more light sources. In embodiments where illumination device includes more than one light source the optical trains A B may provide light having the same or different spectra. In embodiments where different spectra are provided the desired spectrum to be produced by each optical train may be obtained by selecting an appropriate light source having substantially the desired spectrum. In some embodiments coatings on the reflectors A B windows A B and or other optical components inserted into the optical trains A B could be used to alter the spectrum of the light emitted by the light sources thereby producing a desired output spectrum.

As depicted in in one or more embodiments of the present disclosure when illumination device is mechanically coupled to mobile device the exit pupils of optical trains A B e.g. corresponding to the outside diameter of reflectors A B and or windows A B from which light beams A B project in some embodiments may be separated from the entrance pupil of the camera e.g. corresponding to the outside diameter of a lens or window of camera through which light is received from an externally imaged scene by distances that are substantially larger than the separation between the entrance pupil of the camera and the exit pupil of built in illumination device e.g. the outside diameter of illumination device from which light is projected . In some embodiments the distances separating the exit pupils of optical trains A B may be on the order of the largest spatial dimension of the mobile device . Making these separation distances that large or larger has the advantage of significantly reducing the degradation of the quality of imagery captured by the camera due to light that is backscattered into the FOV of the camera from airborne particles e.g. dust illuminated by illumination device .

As shown in the combined output beam from optical assembly may partially or substantially intersect FOV of camera as defined by region . Optical assembly may provide illumination that a conventional illumination device is incapable of providing. For example in some embodiments one or more control interfaces e.g. one or more user controls may be used to adjust the output flux levels of light beams A B produced by optical trains A B simultaneously or independently from one another thus allowing a user to obtain a specific desired illumination level and specific desired illumination color temperature for a scene.

In some embodiments batteries may be used to power light sources A B and or other electrical components of illumination device . Moreover by providing one or more batteries within illumination device light sources A B and or other electrical components of illumination device may receive electrical power from batteries for long periods of time without draining battery of mobile device .

Referring again to mobile device may have a coupling member such as a mechanical attachment mechanism e.g. case with ribs and grooves or a cold shoe mount . In another embodiment mobile device and illumination device may also be coupled electrically e.g. via a port such as a 30 pin connector port or a Lightning port or a hot shoe mount that mechanically and or electrically couples to illumination device . In some embodiments illumination device may be communicatively separate from mobile device e.g. mobile device may be attached or unattached mechanically and or electrically to illumination device and both devices may be operated separately and independently without any electrical coupling between the two . In other embodiments mobile device may send and or receive electrical power and or communications signals to and or from illumination device via coupling members and e.g. as indicated by arrows . In this respect coupling member of mobile device may form a connector interface e.g. a wired communication interface including for example circuitry such as one or more processors integrated circuits ports or other circuitry for managing communications with illumination device . Coupling member may form a connector interface e.g. a wired communication interface for illumination device including circuitry configured to manage communications with mobile device and or other devices and or to route power from its batteries to battery e.g. a lithium ion or other battery for charging battery .

As shown mobile device and illumination device may include wireless communication interfaces and respectively which may be implemented with appropriate circuitry such as one or more processors integrated circuits ports antennas or other circuitry for managing wireless communications between mobile device and illumination device e.g. to pass appropriate control signals or data therebetween using Wi Fi Bluetooth and or other communication techniques .

As shown in illumination device may include other components such as processor memory one or more light sources such as light sources A B one or more optical elements such as optical assembly as discussed and user controls e.g. one or more buttons switches sliders rotary encoders and or other control mechanisms . In some embodiments such a user control may be provided as a sliding dimmer switch as shown in . In this regard user control may be configured to vary the intensity of light provided by optical assembly based on Hall effect principles. Other user controls using the same or different operating principles may be used.

Processor may be implemented for example as a microcontroller microprocessor a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC and or any appropriate combination of these or other types of devices.

Memory e.g. implemented as any appropriate type of volatile and or non volatile memory may be used to store instructions and or data. For example in some embodiments memory may be implemented as a non transitory machine readable medium storing various instructions which may be executed by processor to perform various operations such as receiving and processing operating instructions from mobile device . In some embodiments such a machine readable medium may be provided within processor itself e.g. as firmware and or otherwise and or external to processor . Processor may include processing circuitry disposed within the housing of illumination device and configured to receive control signals from the mobile device via the coupling member and to operate the light sources A B in response to the control signals. The control signals may be generated by an application program interface API running on processor of mobile device based on user input.

As discussed light sources A B may be implemented using any desired number or types of light sources. As also discussed light sources A B may generate light of the same or different spectra e.g. having the same or different wavelengths . In some embodiments one or more optical filters may be provided e.g. within or external to light sources A B to modify the spectrum of light emitted from illumination device . Thus in various embodiments light beams A B may exhibit wavelength ranges that overlap with each other completely partially or not at all. In various embodiments the wavelength ranges may comprise electromagnetic radiation in any desired portions e.g. subsets of the spectral regions ranging from the extreme ultraviolet UV to the far infrared IR e.g. wavelengths from approximately 10 nm to approximately 106 nm and or the spectral regions of the visible light band e.g. wavelengths ranging from approximately 390 nm to approximately 770 nm . In various embodiments such wavelength ranges may be determined by light sources A B themselves and or other portions of optical trains A B including one or more of light sources A B reflectors A B windows A B and or other optical components such as lenses optical filters and or optical diffusers .

As discussed illumination device may include reflectors A B associated with light sources A B. For example light sources A B may be disposed at least partially within corresponding reflectors A B that shape light generated by light sources A B into light beams A B that are projected from illumination device to provide a combined light beam onto an area or two dimensional angular zone of interest such as a scene viewed within the FOV of a camera of mobile device .

In some embodiments reflectors A B may be implemented in the same or similar manner to provide similarly shaped light beams A B. In some embodiments reflectors A B may be implemented differently from each other to provide more degrees of freedom in creating desired shapes for combined light beam .

As shown in mobile device may include various components such as battery display e.g. a liquid crystal display or a light emitting diode display processor memory one or more cameras such as camera e.g. rear facing camera and or a forward facing camera light source e.g. one or more LED light sources user controls e.g. buttons switches and or touchscreen components such as portions of display when implemented as a touchscreen and or other components as commonly implemented in mobile devices such as smartphones e.g. positioning circuitry such as global positioning system circuitry GPS one or more accelerometers gyroscopes compasses etc. .

Processor may be implemented for example as a microcontroller microprocessor a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC and or any appropriate combination of these or other types of devices.

Memory e.g. implemented as any appropriate type of volatile and or non volatile memory may be used to store instructions and or data. For example in some embodiments memory may be implemented as a non transitory machine readable medium storing various instructions which may be executed by processor to perform various operations such as operating an illumination device application e.g. running on processor and interfacing with API for controlling illumination device e.g. for operating light sources A B to flash turn on turn off or increase or decrease in brightness . In some embodiments such a machine readable medium may be provided within processor itself e.g. as firmware and or otherwise and or external to processor .

Various controls may be used to operate light sources A B e.g. to turn on off increase or decrease in intensity go into a strobe mode and or perform other operations . In some embodiments light sources A B may controlled by user controls of illumination device itself. In some embodiments light sources A B may be controlled by mobile device e.g. by user controls of mobile device providing signals communicated to illumination device and or an application running on processor of mobile device providing such signals .

In some embodiments manipulation of user controls may cause processor of illumination device to communicate signals to processor of mobile device to cause an operating system and or application running on processor to display status information to the user e.g. on off status light intensity strobe duration and or other information . Additionally the operating system and or application may receive user inputs from user controls of mobile device and send appropriate control signals to processor of illumination device to control light sources A B e.g. in addition to and or overriding user controls .

In some embodiments illumination device and mobile device may communicate in accordance with a published or downloadable API . The API may be an open API thereby allowing third parties to publish software that can be downloaded on a mobile device to control the light generated by illumination device and or one or more light sources in the mobile device. For example an API may be provided that generates stop motion strobe photography functionality using the mobile device s camera capabilities in conjunction with timed strobing of the light sources A B in the illumination device .

In some embodiments an illumination device API on mobile device may grant software of the mobile device the ability to turn the light sources A B of the illumination device on and off adjust the output flux level of each light source schedule or time durations of light being on with light being off e.g. strobing or signaling and or ramp the peak intensity from one value to another as examples .

These various control methodologies may be applied to a variety of different types of mobile devices and illumination devices to confer mobile device capabilities on an illumination device. In one example use case a GPS controlled illumination device may be provided in which built in GPS functionality of a mobile device can be accessed and used to activate or deactivate the light source s of an attached illumination device based on a location of the mobile device and illumination device e.g. a GPS determined location provided by the mobile device s GPS circuitry . In another example use case a motion controlled illumination device may be provided in which an accelerometer or other motion detection circuitry in a mobile device that is attached to the illumination device can provide information about the motion of the mobile device and illumination device. The information can be provided to processing circuitry in the mobile device or the illumination device which in response to the motion information may cause the light sources of the illumination device to react e.g. turn on turn off flash strobe increase or decrease in brightness etc. based on the orientation rate direction or pattern of movement. In another example use case a network controlled illumination device may be provided in which a mobile device that is attached to an illumination device acts as a device receiving network signals via the internet Bluetooth or other communications circuitry or protocols that then cause processing circuitry in the mobile device or the illumination device to react to those signals and operate the light sources of the illumination device accordingly e.g. to turn on turn off flash strobe increase or decrease in brightness etc. of the light sources in response to the received network signals . For example the received network signals may be generated by a remote user such as a parent of a child in possession of the mobile device and illumination device e.g. to help locate the child or communicate with the child or by a user of the mobile device and illumination device e.g. to activate the light source to help locate a missing phone or capture an image remotely .

At block the illumination device may be coupled to a mobile device with a camera. Illumination device may be mounted to for example mobile device at least partially enclosed in case using methods discussed herein. The illumination device may be coupled to a mobile device mechanically and or electrically as discussed herein.

At block the illumination device may illuminate a portion of a scene lying within the FOV of the camera with the one or more light sources e.g. light sources A B and may project light beams A B respectively. For example the illumination device may be activated by a user control of the illumination device an application running on processor of mobile device and or a user control of mobile device . Activating the illumination device may include providing power from one or more batteries within the illumination device to one or more light sources A B at least partially disposed in one or more reflectors A B. Light beams A B may be produced by light sources A B shaped by associated reflectors A B and passed through transparent windows A B that may alter the spectrum and or intensity distribution of the light beams A B. As discussed the light beams A B may be tilted at non zero angles relative to each other and relative to the optical axis of the camera . The light beams A B may be independently tilted so that the light beams A B overlap within the FOV of the camera . The overlapped light beams A B may provide a combined light beam with an angular region of highest intensity e.g. portion of in FOV as discussed herein.

At block the light beams A B may be adjusted e.g. by the various controls and or applications discussed herein by simultaneously or independently adjusting the total optical flux emitted by each of the light sources A B by adjusting the amount e.g. level of electrical power used to drive each of them e.g. by adjusting one or more voltages currents pulse width modulation PWM patterns and or other associated aspects . Depending on the specifications of the light sources A B the designs of the optical components comprising optical trains A B and the spatial and angular orientations of the various optical components comprising these optical trains A B various optical characteristics e.g. the angular intensity distribution and or color temperature of the combined output beam produced by the illumination device may be altered due to said adjustment of the electrical power used to drive each of the light sources A B. The level of electrical power used to drive each of the light sources A B may be adjusted during operation of the illumination device and or mobile device e.g. during a video recording and may be adjusted discretely or continuously.

These electrical power levels may be adjusted using any of the various control techniques discussed herein. For example electrical drive power may be increased or decreased to one or more light sources A B by sliding a switch e.g. user control . In another embodiment the mobile device that the illumination device is electrically coupled to may also independently adjust the electrical drive power used to drive one or more of the light sources A B by turning or otherwise adjusting a virtual dimmer or other virtual switch or control displayed on a touchscreen display of the mobile device e.g. displayed by an application or operating system running on processor of mobile device or by operating one or more user controls of mobile device e.g. real buttons switches knobs and or other controls .

At block imagery e.g. one or more images providing visual representations such as individual still images and or a video stream of the portion of the scene within the FOV is captured. For example camera may capture imagery of a scene that is illuminated by illumination device . A user may then review the captured imagery on the display e.g. a conventional screen and or a touchscreen of the mobile device further adjust the optical characteristics block of the illumination provided by the illumination device and capture additional images until the desired characteristics e.g. color cast contrast level etc. of the imagery are achieved.

In an embodiment the illumination device may be used to provide significantly higher intensity illumination for capturing both still and video imagery than the one or more light sources built into the mobile device thereby allowing high quality imagery to be captured at significantly longer ranges in low ambient lighting conditions than would be possible without the illumination device . In addition the significantly higher intensity illumination provided by the illumination device may allow for significantly improved contrast control e.g. fill flash in situations where the brightness level provided by ambient lighting varies significantly over the scene to be captured. If desired one or more light sources of the mobile device may optionally be operated along with the one or more light sources A B of the illumination device when still or video imagery is captured. In one embodiment prior to capturing still or video imagery while operating the one or more light sources A B of the illumination device a rotatable top portion of the illumination device containing the one or more light sources A B may be rotated to align with a desired camera e.g. a front facing or rear facing camera of the mobile device .

Various features are provided on rear portion of case including an outer surface portion ribs and grooves e.g. tracks . Ribs are disposed on substantially opposite sides of outer surface . As shown in portions of ribs are elevated and disposed away from outer surface to define grooves between elevated portions and outer surface . For example grooves may be implemented as respective elongate voids between elevated portions and outer surface . Ribs also include solid portions which provide stops at respective ends of grooves . For example in some embodiments stops may be formed by solid portions of ribs conjoining with outer surface to define stops as surfaces substantially perpendicular to outer surface e.g. see

Case also includes a wedge shaped locking member having a contact surface configured to engage with a complementary feature of illumination device as further described herein.

Case includes textured surfaces adjacent to ribs . Outer surface includes textured surfaces e.g. in a dimpled pattern as shown or otherwise . In various embodiments textured surfaces and or may be provided to permit a user to conveniently grip case while illumination device is attached thereto.

Case and illumination device may interoperate to provide an attachment mechanism to secure e.g. mechanically couple illumination device to mobile device while mobile device is held by case . In this regard illumination device includes two opposing elongate and substantially parallel engagement members extending from a housing of illumination device and used to connect to case . In various embodiments engagement members may be integral portions of housing or may be separate structures mounted to or otherwise attached to housing .

Engagement members each include an elongate tongue adapted to slide into a corresponding one of grooves in a tongue and groove engagement. As shown in tongues may be implemented as flanges extending from main body portions of engagement members . Each tongue has an abutment surface configured to contact a corresponding stop of case when illumination device is mounted onto case and engagement members are completely engaged with ribs . Abutment surfaces may be implemented as notches in engagement members . In this regard abutment surfaces may catch and rest adjacent stops of case when illumination device is slid onto case and completely engaged therewith.

As shown in the cross sectional view of taken at line of tongues of engagement members may be positioned within grooves of case such that elevated portions of ribs are disposed above tongues thus securing illumination device to case through the engagement of tongues with grooves . As also shown elevated portions of ribs may engage with corresponding grooves e.g. tracks of illumination device e.g. grooves formed between a substantially flat surface of housing and tongues of engagement members to further secure illumination device to case .

Illumination device also includes locking member which may be used to further secure illumination device to case . Locking member is disposed on housing and provides a contact surface configured to engage with contact surface of locking member in a complementary fashion. As tongues slide into grooves illumination device locking member will slide over case locking member . When tongues are fully slid into grooves e.g. such that abutment surfaces contact stops locking member will have fully slid over locking member . Locking member will be pulled down toward outer surface of case due to the engagement of tongues and grooves . As a result locking member will be positioned in front of locking member . Locking members and may be sized and positioned such that surfaces and are in contact and in tension with each other e.g. surface may push against surface when locking member is so positioned. This causes locking member to bias e.g. push locking member and therefore also push housing toward stops . As a result tongues of engagement members will be pushed against stops by their attachment to housing .

The mechanical engagement of case with illumination device can be further understood with reference to . In illumination device is positioned away from case and is slid generally in the direction of arrow . In other embodiments case may be slid toward illumination device e.g. generally opposite the direction of arrow or case and illumination device may be slid toward each other. In tongues have been partially slid into grooves such that illumination device is partially engaged with case . In tongues have been fully slid into grooves such that abutment surfaces contact stops and surfaces and of locking members and are engaged with each other. Illumination device may be disengaged from case for example by reversing the sliding operation with sufficient force to dislodge locking members and from each other to permit locking member to slide back over locking member and withdraw tongues from grooves .

Various embodiments described and or illustrated by the present disclosure may be combined with any of the various embodiments described and or illustrated in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 104 038 filed Jan. 15 2015 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The disclosure is not intended to limit the present invention to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. It is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present invention whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. For example it is contemplated that the various embodiments set forth herein may be combined together and or separated into additional embodiments where appropriate. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein can be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

Embodiments described above illustrate but do not limit the invention. It should also be understood that numerous modifications and variations are possible in accordance with the principles of the present invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is defined only by the following claims.

