---

title: Lighting nodes having a core node and sensor pods
abstract: A method and a system of lighting nodes having a core node and sensor pods is described. A core node, representing a master device, is positioned within a luminaire housing to enable lighting control for the luminaire. At least one peripheral device representing an integrated sensor pod, an external sensor pod, or a video node. Each of the peripheral devices representing a slave device and includes one or more sensors for detecting conditions. A pod bus, representing a master-slave bus, enables power signals to be transmitted to each of the peripheral devices. The pod bus also enables the core node to query each of the peripheral devices and each of the peripheral devices to respond to a query from the core node.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09565732&OS=09565732&RS=09565732
owner: Sensity Systems Inc.
number: 09565732
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160310
---
The present application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. Section 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 130 732 entitled LIGHTING NODES HAVING A CORE NODE AND SENSOR PODS filed Mar. 10 2015 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Embodiments of the present disclosure relate generally to sensor networks and more particularly but not by way of limitation to lighting nodes having a cores node and sensor pods or other peripheral devices.

Today sensor networks are being used in a wide range of application areas. For example data collected by sensor networks may be used for environmental monitoring security and surveillance logistics and transportation control and automation and traffic monitoring. The sensor networks can be integrated with existing lighting infrastructures such as those used to light roads streets and highways. By leveraging the existing lighting infrastructure the existing luminaires and lighting fixtures can be transformed into sensor equipped smart devices capable of capturing and transmitting data to enable a broad array of applications and services.

The headings provided herein are merely for convenience and do not necessarily affect the scope or meaning of the terms used.

The description that follows includes systems methods techniques instruction sequences and computing machine program products that embody illustrative embodiments of the present invention. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of various embodiments of the inventive subject matter. As used herein the term or may be construed in either an inclusive or exclusive sense. It will be evident however to those skilled in the art that embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In general well known instruction instances protocols structures and techniques have not been shown in detail.

A networked environment may include a lighting sensor network that includes a sensor network in communication with a server system representing a sensor data storage and management platform also referred to as a service data platform via a network e.g. a wide area network WAN . The sensor network may be coupled to a lighting infrastructure or other infrastructure that is capable of providing the sensor nodes within the sensor network with mechanical support for mounting the sensor nodes and additional power and networking capabilities to the sensor nodes. In example embodiments some or all of the sensor nodes may be attached directly or indirectly to lighting fixtures within the lighting infrastructure.

The NetSense lighting sensor network platform developed by Sensity Systems Inc. of Sunnyvale California provides an example of a lighting sensor network that may be used to implement various embodiments described. The NetSense framework enables deployment of a variety of sensors using a lighting infrastructure that allows applications to securely access sensor data information which may represent sensitive identification information. The key components of NetSense includes end point sensor data collection devices e.g. sensor nodes a server platform that processes and enables applications to securely access the sensor data e.g. service data platform and a user interface that displays the sensor data.

The sensor network includes multiple spatially distributed sensor nodes used to monitor physical and environmental conditions such as temperature sound pressure light traffic vehicles and people and vibrations.

The sensor network usually monitors an area such as a customer site. For example the sensor nodes may be attached to lighting fixtures located at a customer site representing a lighting infrastructure. The lighting infrastructure may be capable of providing power to the sensor nodes and mechanical or physical support for the sensor nodes. The infrastructure may also provide additional networking communication interfaces for the sensor network . The sensor nodes are deployed within the site to monitor various conditions events or phenomenon that provides insights to users of the lighting sensor network . In alternative embodiments only some of the lighting fixtures within a lighting infrastructure are attached directly or indirectly to the sensor nodes.

The sensor nodes communicate over a network such as a wide area network WAN with the service data platform which may represent one or more application servers residing in a cloud computing environment. In many applications the sensor network communicates with a local area network LAN or wide area network WAN through a gateway. For example the gateway acts as a bridge between the WAN and the other network e.g. LAN which is not shown . The sensor data collected at the sensor nodes in the sensor network may be securely transported to a remote server system represented by the service data platform for storage and processing. This enables data to be stored and processed by devices with more resources for example in a remotely located server system residing in a cloud computing environment.

In various embodiments the service data platform may be owned and operated by an entity referred to as a service provider. The owner of the lighting infrastructure may be referred to as a customer of the service provider. In some examples the customer of the service provider may allow third parties to access the sensor data collected at the sensor nodes. In various embodiments the sensor data is processed by the sensor network and or the service data platform .

The service data platform also provides both programmatic access thru API servers and web access thru web servers to data stored in the service data platform . Data may be stored in the service data platform in one or more databases accessed through a database server. For example the service data platform may provide application programming interfaces APIs for third party applications to access sensor data stored in the service data platform . In another example the service data platform may also provide access to the sensor data via web servers.

The service data platform may represent a platform for managing sensor data that includes database services for customers. Developers of third party applications may access the sensor data stored in the database and build their own applications utilizing the sensor data. Other online data services may also be provided by the service data platform for example analyzing and processing the sensor data which are accessible to authorized users of the service data platform . The service data platform may include APIs and interfaces for third party application developers a middleware containing the business logic needed for managing and processing the sensor data a storage model suitable for the efficient storage and retrieval of large volumes of the sensor data and appropriate security measures that are available to customers for protecting unauthorized access to their sensor data.

In various embodiments the core node provides full lighting control capabilities and also collects basic sensor information e.g. ambient light motion detection temperature and power monitoring . In example embodiments the core node may be designed to be low cost light weight and adaptable to be deployed alongside any third party lighting fixture via a NEMA socket or fully integrated into luminaires.

In various embodiments the video node may include one or more camera or video devices. The video node may be considered to be a high performance node in the network. In some embodiments the video node may be designed to support higher bandwidth data e.g. video data and contain a computational engine for analyzing data rich applications e.g. security and smart parking across the light sensor network . In some embodiments the video node may include the ability to support the local high intensity analysis of high definition HD video which can be connected via one or more cameras. In various embodiments the video node includes a wireless radio that enables the video node to communicate directly or indirectly with a service data platform.

In the core node is positioned on top of the luminaire via an attachment device not shown . In an example embodiment the attachment device is a NEMA socket that conforms to the published specification ANSI C 136.41 that was approved on Dec. 5 2013 and published on Jan. 29 2014. The NEMA socket enables the core node to be detachable from the luminaire . The luminaire includes chassis which includes a LED driver . The LED driver is generally used to control the current and or voltage to a lighting engine . Extending from the core node to the sensor pod through the chassis is the pod bus . The video node which also includes the video sensor is communicatively coupled to the core node via the expansion connection .

In the core node is positioned on top of the luminaire via an attachment device not shown such as a NEMA that provides functionality to connect a device used to control the light level of a luminaire as described above e.g. ANSI C136.41 according to an example embodiment. The luminaire includes chassis which includes a LED driver . The LED driver is generally used to control the current and or voltage to a lighting engine . The luminaire also includes the lighting engine . The pod bus extends from the expansion connection to the sensor pod . The pod bus also extends from the base of the core node not shown to the expansion connection . The video node which also includes the video sensor is communicatively coupled to the core node via the expansion connection .

In the core node is located within in the luminaire according to an example embodiment. The sensor pod is communicatively coupled to the core node via the pod bus . The video node including the video sensor is also communicatively coupled to the core node . The luminaire includes a chassis and a lighting engine . The core node and the led driver are positioned within the chassis . In the example shown in a NEMA socket is not used because the core node has been integrated into the luminaire by the manufacturer of the luminaire .

In the example embodiments shown in the pod bus is also referred to as an internal bus or a master slave bus. The core node represents a master device and the sensor pods and the video node also referred to as peripheral devices represent slave devices. Communications between the core node and the sensor pods is through the pod bus . In various embodiments the pod bus extends through the expansion connection . Additionally the core node provides power signals to the sensor pods over the pod bus . In various embodiments the pod bus is considered to provide dual functionality.

In an example embodiment the sensor node includes a core node to enable lighting control for a luminaire . The core node has a base forming a plug portion of a socket. An example of a base is shown in . The plug portion of the socket has two pins designated as optional pins. For example the optional pins may be the brown pin and the orange pin described in the ANSI published specification C136.41 and shown in . The sensor node includes at least one peripheral device. Each peripheral device includes one or more sensors for detecting conditions and producing sensor information based on the detected conditions. The sensor node includes a pod bus enabling power signals to be transmitted to each of the peripheral devices and communications signals to be transmitted between the core node and each of the peripheral devices via a two wire communication path coupled to the two pins designated as optional pins.

In a further embodiment the socket represents a NEMA socket that includes a receptacle as shown in by the receptacle assembly attached to the base of the core node such that the core node is enclosed by the NEMA socket. The NEMA socket conforms to an ANSI published specification e.g. C136.41 and provides light level control for a light emitting diode LED driver for the luminaire . In alternative embodiments other detachable sockets may be used to connect the core node to the luminaire .

In various embodiments the pod bus extends from the base of the core node to each of the peripheral devices. In some embodiments each of the peripheral devices represents one of an integrated sensor pod communicatively coupled to a portion of the pod bus within the luminaire an external sensor pod communicatively coupled to a portion of the pod bus external to the luminaire or a video node communicatively coupled to the portion of the pod bus external to the luminaire . In a further embodiment the integrated sensor pod is integrated with the luminaire by a manufacturer of the luminaire .

In example embodiments the portion of the pod bus external to the luminaire represents a cable attached to a connector on the core node . In such an embodiment the external sensor pod is communicatively coupled to the cable. In another example embodiment the portion of the pod bus external to the luminaire enables video node s and external sensor pods to be added to the sensor node after the sensor node is deployed in the field.

In some embodiments the portion of the pod bus external to the luminaire represents a cable attached to a connector on the core node . In such an embodiment the video node includes at least one video camera communicatively coupled to the cable. In a further embodiment the video node performs video analytics data processing prior to transmitting video data to the core node via the cable. In an example embodiment the cable includes a splitter to enable more than one peripheral device to be attached to the cable.

In various embodiments the sensor node represents a lighting node in the lighting sensor network . In example embodiments the communication signals represents at least one of command request and interrupt signals from the core node transmitted to least one peripheral device. In further embodiments the communication signals include data signals that transmit the sensor information from each of the peripheral devices to the core node .

In one embodiment the core node collects the sensor information detected by at least one of the integrated sensor pod or the external sensor pod and transmits the sensor information to the service data platform to enable one or more applications to access the sensor information and wherein the accessed sensor information includes raw sensor information or processed sensor information at the core node and the service data platform . In another embodiment the core node collects the video information captured by at least one video camera and transmit the video information to a service data platform to enable one or more applications to access the video information and wherein the accessed video information includes raw video information or processed video information the core node and the service data platform .

In various embodiments the core node represents a master device and each peripheral device represents a slave device and wherein the pod bus represents a master slave bus. In further embodiments the pod bus enabling the core node to query the each of the peripheral devices and each of the peripheral devices to respond to a query from the core node .

In other example embodiments a lighting node includes a luminaire housing that includes a light emitting diode LED driver and a light engine. The lighting node also includes the core node positioned within the luminaire housing the core node enabling lighting control for the luminaire . The lighting node also includes at least one peripheral device. The at least one peripheral device includes an integrated sensor pod having one or more sensors for detecting conditions and producing sensor information based on the detected conditions. The lighting node also includes a pod bus positioned within the luminaire housing and represents a master slave bus. The pod bus enables power signals to be transmitted to each of the peripheral devices. The core node representing a master device and each of the peripheral devices representing a slave device such that the pod bus enables the core node to query each of the peripheral devices and each of the peripheral devices to respond to a query from the core node .

In further embodiments a sensor network includes a plurality of sensor node s communicatively coupled via a network. At least some of the sensor nodes include the core node to enable lighting control for a luminaire . The core node having a base conforming to a plug portion of a NEMA socket where the plug portion of the NEMA socket having two pins designated as optional pins. At least some of the sensor node s includes at least one peripheral device. Each peripheral device includes one or more sensors for detecting conditions and producing sensor information based on the detected conditions. At least some of the sensor node s includes a pod bus enabling power signals to be transmitted to each of the peripheral devices and communications signals to be transmitted between the core node and each of the peripheral devices via a two wire communication path coupled to the two pins designated as optional pins.

In various embodiments the core node may provide functionality to directly control the dimmable ballast or driver in addition to operating as a sensor node with networking capabilities. The pin diagram for the core base node illustrates aline pin having a black wire a neutral pin having a white wire and a switched pin having a red wire . The pins represent the high voltage pins as defined by the published specification ANSI C126.41. The dim pin shown by the violet wire and the pin shown by the gray wire are used to provide positive and negative voltages respectively for providing dimming functionality for the luminaire . The published ANSI C136.41 specification also includes tv ooptinnn pins and shown by orange and the brown wires . The optional pins and are used in various embodiments for communication signals and power lines or conductors . The optional pin may represent ground and the optional pin may represent 5 volts V in their role as power conductors according to example embodiments. The optional pins and also have a dual role by superimposing communication signals onto the power lines. The communication signals communicatively couple the core node with the peripheral nodes via the pod bus as shown in .

The published ANSI C136.41 specification also defines a receptacle for mating with the photocontrol base. An example of a photocontrol base is described above in conjunction with . In an example embodiment the core node base represents a photocontrol base. In various embodiments the photocontrol base together with a mating receptacle is used to connect a core node to a luminaire.

The line pin from the core node base corresponds to the black wire the neutral pin from the core node base corresponds to the white wire the switched pin from the core node base corresponds to the red wire the dim pin from the base corresponds to the gray wire the dim pin from the base corresponds to the violet wire the open pin from the core node base corresponds to the brown wire and the open pin from the core node base corresponds to the orange wire. In other words the pins are connected to the corresponding wires as described above.

The relay provides power to the luminaire using the red wire also referred to as line out via the switched pin . The white wire provides neutral signals and is a bidirectional signal. The auxiliary power signals referred to as Aux L and Aux N providing line and neutral power signals respectively are communicatively coupled to the relay .

The communications controller is communicatively coupled to the dimmers . The micro controller provides a pulse width modulation PWM signal that controls a 0 10V dimmer circuit which is carried on the violet and gray wires and is only used for dimming.

The micro controller is also communicatively coupled to the communications device via a universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART . The communications device is capacitively coupled to the 5V power on the brown wire and allows communications with devices connected to and possibly powered by the brown 5V and orange GND wires.

The micro controller provides a general purpose input output GPIO signal to the relay that switches power on off on the red wire. The GPIO signal controls the relay .

The micro controller is communicatively coupled to the wireless transceiver also referred to wireless radio in some embodiments for wireless communications over Wi Fi or other wireless protocols using an antenna . For example the wireless transceiver may communicate using the Bluetooth communications protocol including the Bluetooth low energy BLE communications protocol. The communications device provides functionality for the core node to communicate and send data via the external bus to the service data platform and other devices.

The brown and orange wires connected to the brown pin and the orange pin respectively provide communications signals to the internal bus referred to as the pod bus. In various embodiments internal bus represents a master slave bus where the core node represents the master device and the sensor nodes or other peripheral devices represent the slave nodes. The communication signals may represent broadcast signals requesting one or more sensor pods or other peripheral devices to sign on. The communication signals may represent commands or requests to the one or more sensor pods or other peripheral devices. The communication signals may represent interrupts from the sensor pods . Communication signals and data may be transmitted over data paths within the sensor node .

Unlike the core node the sensor pod cannot communicate directly outside the sensor node . Since the sensor pod is a slave device communicatively coupled to the core node which is the master device the sensor pod can respond to requests from the core node and can initiate messages to the core node by using a provisioned time slot dedicated for its use or shared with other pods. In the case of a time slot shared with other nodes sensor pods may incorporate a mechanism to resend messages that are not acknowledged as being received by the master device. In an example embodiment the sensor pod only provides responses to the core node via the internal bus only in response to requests received from the core node . In other embodiments sensor pods can initiate messages using a provisioned time slot. In various embodiments the sensor pod is queried by the core node before it provides a response.

In the sensor pod includes a temperature sensor and an ambient light sensor . In other embodiments the number of sensors within the sensor pod may vary. The micro controller is communicatively coupled to the communications device . Capacitive coupling is provided between the input from the brown wire associated with the optional pin and the communications device . The power controller receives power signals from the internal bus in particular input from the brown wire associated with the optional pin . In some embodiments the micro controller has a low power input output LPIO that is coupled to a PIR .

The internal bus which includes the optional pins and enables the following features to be implemented in the sensor node 

Referring back to the sensor node includes a master device and three slave devices e.g. slave slave and slave . The sign on or discovery process which is used to enable communication between the master and the slave devices is described below.

During a first operation a master device broadcasts a command for slaves to respond at a random time within a time interval.

During a second operation each slave device picks a time slot and transmits a single byte number on the bus. In various embodiments time slots represent 1 millisecond per time slot. Each slave devices uses a random number from 0 15 to pick a time slot to respond on to a sign on command.

During a third operation the master device broadcasts a command for each slave number it receives to have the slave who provided the number provide the master device with its unique identification ID number which may be a serial number .

Once sign on or discovery of the slave devices is complete then the sensor node operates in an active mode.

In various embodiments the node address is an 8 bit address. Based on the node address different device types of messages or groups can be assigned to one or more devices.

As indicated above the sensor pods provide a response to the core node when it is queried or requested to provide a response. As a result of the master slave relationship between the core node and the sensor pods or other peripheral devices the core node is able to control the traffic on the internal bus to minimize congestion.

In alternative embodiments there may be more than one master device. For example there may be one main master device who delegates authority to other master devices.

Other examples of sensors that may be used in various embodiments in sensor nodes include biometric sensors motion sensors environmental sensors and position sensors. For example the biometric sensors may include components to detect expressions e.g. hand expressions facial expressions vocal expressions body gestures or eye tracking measure biosignals e.g. blood pressure heart rate body temperature perspiration or brain waves identify a person e.g. voice identification retinal identification facial identification fingerprint identification or electroencephalogram based identification and the like. Examples of motions sensors may include motion components such as acceleration sensor components e.g. accelerometer gravitation sensor components rotation sensor components e.g. gyroscope and so forth. Various environmental sensors may be used which include environmental components such as illumination sensor components e.g. photometer temperature sensor components e.g. one or more thermometer that detect ambient temperature humidity sensor components pressure sensor components e.g. barometer acoustic sensor components e.g. one or more microphones that detect background noise proximity sensor components e.g. infrared sensors that detect nearby objects gas sensors e.g. gas detection sensors to detection concentrations of hazardous gases for safety or to measure pollutants in the atmosphere or other components that may provide indications measurements or signals corresponding to a surrounding physical environment. Various position sensors may include position components such as location sensor components e.g. a Global Position System GPS receiver component altitude sensor components e.g. altimeters or barometers that detect air pressure from which altitude may be derived orientation sensor components e.g. magnetometers and the like.

Additionally certain embodiments described herein may be implemented as logic or a number of modules engines components or mechanisms. A module engine logic component or mechanism collectively referred to as a module may be a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and configured or arranged in a certain manner. In certain example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more components of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion or firmware note that software and firmware can generally be used interchangeably herein as is known by a skilled artisan as a module that operates to perform certain operations described herein.

In various embodiments a module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. within a special purpose processor application specific integrated circuit ASIC or array to perform certain operations. A module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software or firmware to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that a decision to implement a module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by for example cost time energy usage and package size considerations.

Accordingly the term module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which modules or components are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the modules or components need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the modules or components comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure the processor to constitute a particular module at one instance of time and to constitute a different module at a different instance of time.

Modules can provide information to and receive information from other modules. Accordingly the described modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiples of such modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the modules. In embodiments in which multiple modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple modules have access. For example one module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

With reference to an example embodiment extends to a machine in the example form of a computer system within which instructions for causing the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein may be executed. For example one or more nodes may be implemented using the computer system to perform data analytics or other processing of the sensor information and or video information. In alternative example embodiments the machine operates as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the machine may operate in the capacity of a server or a client machine in server client network environment or n tier network as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment or in a virtualized cloud computing environment. The machine may be a personal computer PC wearable computing device a tablet PC a set top box STB a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a cellular telephone a web appliance a network router a switch or bridge sensor node or any machine capable of executing instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further while only a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.

The example computer system may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . In example embodiments the computer system also includes one or more of an alpha numeric input device e.g. a keyboard a user interface UI navigation device or cursor control device e.g. a mouse a storage unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The storage unit includes a machine readable storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software instructions embodying or used by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system with the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable storage medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable storage medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of embodiments of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures used by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable storage media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device and utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi and WiMAX networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an overview of the inventive subject matter has been described with reference to specific example embodiments various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of embodiments of the present invention. Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed.

The embodiments illustrated herein are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed. Other embodiments may be used and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. The Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Moreover plural instances may be provided for resources operations or structures described herein as a single instance. Additionally boundaries between various resources operations modules engines and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in a context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within a scope of various embodiments of the present invention. In general structures and functionality presented as separate resources in the example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or resource. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single resource may be implemented as separate resources. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within a scope of embodiments of the present invention as represented by the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

