---

title: Systems and methods for newsroom management with electronic-publish-point integration
abstract: Presently described are systems and methods for newsroom management with electronic-publish-point integration. One example embodiment takes the form of a non-transitory computer-readable medium containing instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause a set of steps to be carried out for submitting content to an electronic publish point. The set of steps includes providing a newsroom script to a user via a user interface; receiving a selected portion of an on-air text portion of the newsroom script from the user via the user interface; and retrieving, from a media database, media associated with the newsroom script. The set of steps further includes submitting content to the publish point, wherein the content includes text associated with the selected portion of the on-air text portion, and wherein the content further includes the retrieved media.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09495472&OS=09495472&RS=09495472
owner: Tribune Broadcasting Company, LLC
number: 09495472
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160510
---
This disclosure is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 724 997 entitled Systems and Methods for Newsroom Management with Electronic Publish Point Integration and filed on Dec. 21 2012 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Pat. App. No. 61 579 491 entitled System and Method for Newsroom Production and filed on Dec. 22 2011 the entire contents of each of which is incorporated by reference herein.

Throughout this application with respect to all reasonable derivatives of such terms and unless otherwise specified and or unless the particular context clearly dictates otherwise each usage of 

The present systems and methods relate to broadcasting technology and more particularly to newsroom management and to the creation and submission of content to one or more electronic publish points.

Full service broadcasting systems typically include a series of subsystems that communicate through use of a widely accepted protocol namely the Video Disk Control Protocol VDCP or the Media Object Server MOS protocol. One such subsystem is a video recording and playout server a common example of which is the K2 server provided by Grass Valley of San Francisco Calif. Another subsystem is a video management system such as Bitcentral of Newport Beach Calif. which manages a plurality of video recording and playout servers by organizing and moving video components back and forth between the servers and a video component database i.e. to store a video component once it is recorded or to retrieve a video component for playback . Video recording and playout servers typically communicate with video management systems using the VDCP protocol.

Another subsystem is a newsroom management system which joins previously recorded video components that were e.g. retrieved by a video management system with live video components graphics voiceovers and or other features or add ins to produce a news program. An example of a newsroom management system is the Essential News Production System a k a the Electronic News Program System ENPS which is leased for use by stations from the Associated Press AP . Newsroom management systems typically communicate with video management systems using the MOS protocol. A news program is then ultimately selected by a scheduling and sequencing subsystem for commercial broadcast on e.g. a television channel .

With the recent popularity of electronic publish points publish points such as those associated with social media services e.g. Facebook hereinafter Facebook and Twitter hereinafter Twitter it has become common to publicize and solicit interest in a given news program by creating content that relates to the news program and submitting that content to an associated publish point. For example content from or associated with a news program may be used to create and submit content to a Facebook page that is associated with that news program which is then accessible by a user via a website application etc. . That content may also be submitted to other related publish points such as a Facebook page associated with a particular media personality that is affiliated with that news program a Twitter feed for the station on which the news program is broadcast and or one or more other options.

The specific type of content that is submitted to a given publish point typically depends on the configuration of the publish point but in most instances includes text hyperlinks and or media such as video components or embedded code for video players applications etc. and or images . Certain publish points such as those described above often also provide their users with an ability to respond to a publish point submission thereby encouraging and facilitating interactive communication.

Because it is often desired that content that is submitted to publish points be provided to end users in close temporal proximity to the time when associated content becomes available on other types of media e.g. on air broadcast web videos video players and or applications on connected devices and the like or at least that such submissions have a real time feel content is typically submitted to publish points around the same time that the associated content becomes available e.g. is shown on the other media. For example in the broadcasting industry it is particularly important that publish point content about broadcast news programming appear in close temporal proximity to when the news program airs on television i.e. to coincide with a live television broadcast . This is due in part to the fact that the publish point content is used to drive interest in the news program through other media.

Accordingly a user e.g. a producer newsroom social media director an otherwise designated user hereinafter collectively referred to as a producer that is affiliated with the provider of that news program typically creates and manually submits content to various publish points while the news program is being broadcast. However this approach presents several issues. First news programs are often fast paced and loaded with content making it difficult for the producer to keep up with submitting timely content. This is particularly an issue when a producer is submitting content to multiple publish points e.g. multiple pages or feeds associated with one or more social media services at substantially the same time. Further news programs are often modified shortly before or even during a broadcast to address timing issues technical issues and or other issues. As such a producer s ability to create publish point content in advance of a news program is limited due in part to the practical realities of the ways in which news programming is created and or the transient time sensitive nature of the news content itself.

Another disadvantage of the above described approach is that the process of creating publish point content is often tedious and time consuming. Indeed in addition to drafting appropriate text i.e. text that is associated with the content that is broadcast in the news program the producer often needs to search for and retrieve a relevant video component and then include it in the publish point content. Obtaining relevant video components in this environment is particularly difficult due to the fact that traditional broadcasting systems have a segmented design.

As described above prior art newsroom management systems are not optimized for tight integration with playout servers and or video management systems. As such when a producer is using such a newsroom management system i.e. to view content that is currently being broadcast or scheduled for broadcast on a news program and decides to create publish point content that includes a related video component the producer must leave the newsroom management system environment access a separate video management system that has access to a video component database and search for and retrieve the appropriate video component. Thereafter the producer must draft appropriate text upload the retrieved video component and submit the content to the appropriate publish point. This approach presents similar issues when producers seek to include other relevant media e.g. images in their publish point content as such media is similarly not available within nor easily attainable by that newsroom management system.

Due to the complexity and time required in carrying out the above described approach it is common for publish point content created in this environment to be submitted in an untimely fashion and or to contain errors. For example the submitted content may include substantive and or typographical errors in its text and may also or instead include undesired media e.g. media that is not relevant to the applicable portion of the news program mismatched and or inaccurate media e.g. media that contains extra content that is not related to the applicable portion of the news program and or does not contain relevant content that is intended to be emphasized by the publish point content and the like.

Yet another problem with the above described approach is that it may present security issues. In order to enable one or more producers to submit publish point content each such person is typically provided with login credentials for a set of predetermined publish points. However because the list of applicable publish points may be large and may frequently change it can and often does become difficult to manage these login credentials. As one example in the event that a producer is terminated or removed from a news program project the login credentials for all associated publish points must in order to prevent unauthorized access then be changed and provided to all other producers who continue to require such access.

Disclosed herein are systems and methods for newsroom management with electronic publish point integration the disclosed systems and methods improve upon the traditional approaches to creating and submitting content to an electronic publish point in a broadcasting environment.

One example of an advantage of the presently disclosed systems and methods is the ability to quickly and efficiently create publish point content that is relevant to an associated news program.

Another example of an advantage of the presently disclosed systems and methods is the ability to efficiently and accurately select and edit text based on an associated newsroom script for inclusion in content submitted to a publish point.

Another example of an advantage of the presently disclosed systems and methods is the ability to efficiently and accurately retrieve and edit media based on an association with a newsroom script used for a news program for inclusion in content submitted to a publish point.

Another example of an advantage of the presently disclosed systems and methods is the ability to efficiently and accurately retrieve and edit media from one or more e mails one or more websites one or more media databases and or any other available source s for inclusion in content submitted to a publish point.

Another example of an advantage of the presently disclosed systems and methods is the ability to efficiently and accurately select an image of a video component based at least in part on a selection of newsroom script text for inclusion in content submitted to a publish point.

Another example of an advantage of the presently disclosed systems and methods is the ability to store manage and retrieve login credentials of publish points to reduce or eliminate security issues often presented when submitting content to a publish point.

Another example of an advantage of the presently disclosed systems and methods is the ability to tag for auto publishing content that is associated with a newsroom script to reduce or eliminate user intervention at or around the time the content is intended to be submitted to a publish point.

Various embodiments of the presently disclosed systems and methods may have none some or all of these advantages. Other advantages will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art.

A first example embodiment takes the form of a non transitory computer readable medium containing instructions that when executed by a processor cause a set of steps to be carried out for submitting content to an electronic publish point. The set includes the steps of i providing a newsroom script to a user via a user interface ii receiving a selected portion of an on air text portion of the newsroom script from the user via the user interface and iii retrieving from a media database media associated with the newsroom script. The set further includes the step of submitting content to the publish point where the content includes text associated with the selected portion of the on air text portion and where the content further includes the retrieved media. Another example embodiment takes the form of a method comprising this set of steps.

A second example embodiment takes the form of a newsroom management system that includes i a media database that is configured to store media ii a newsroom script database that is configured to store newsroom scripts together with references to associated media iii a user interface comprising a display device and an input device and iv a publish point module that is coupled to the media database the newsroom script database and the user interface. The publish point module is configured for i receiving a user selected portion of an on air text portion of a newsroom script ii retrieving from the media database media associated with the newsroom script based at least in part on a reference included in the newsroom script database and iii submitting content to an electronic publish point the content including text associated with the selected portion of the on air text and further including the retrieved media.

A third example embodiment takes the form of a non transitory computer readable medium containing instructions that when executed by a processor cause a set of steps to be carried out for submitting content to an electronic publish point. The set includes the steps of i receiving a selected newsroom script from a user via a user interface ii retrieving from a media source media associated with the newsroom script and iii submitting content to the publish point where the content includes the retrieved media. Another example embodiment takes the form of a method comprising this set of steps.

A fourth example embodiment takes the form of a non transitory computer readable medium containing instructions that when executed by a processor cause a set of steps to be carried out for submitting content to an electronic publish point. The set includes the steps of i receiving a selected newsroom script from a user via a user interface ii receiving content associated with the selected newsroom script iii receiving a request to tag the newsroom script for auto publishing and iv responsive to a triggering event submitting the received content to the publish point. Another example embodiment takes the form of a method comprising this set of steps.

Turning now to an example newsroom management system of the present invention is shown. Included in the newsroom management system is a publish point module implemented as a non transitory computer readable medium containing instructions that when executed by a processor cause performance of a set of steps for creating and submitting content to an electronic publish point . The newsroom management system further includes an input device a display device and a user interface provided on the display device through which a user e.g. a producer interacts with the publish point module and the entire newsroom management system .

Further included in the newsroom management system is at least one media management system having a media database. In at least one embodiment one media management system may be a video management system having one and perhaps a plurality of recording and playout servers and a video component database and another media management system may be an image management system having an image database . Finally the newsroom management system includes a relevancy system a newsroom script database and a publish point login credential database .

It is contemplated that some or all of the above described systems and databases may be combined and or otherwise organized as desired. Also the organization of data within the described databases is not limited to any one particular technique. For example the video component database may be organized by storing separate files for each video component. Alternatively it may be organized by storing a video file together with a set of markers to identify a video component contained within the video file.

Turning now to a flow chart including steps of an example of a method embodiment of the present invention is shown. In step a newsroom script is provided to a user via the user interface associated with the newsroom management system . A newsroom script includes a set of producer commands and or on air text and is associated with a news program and more particularly is associated with a block of a news program. In a typical newsroom management system a news program is represented by a lineup also referred to as a rundown that includes a plurality of blocks separated by commercials. Blocks are identified by letter e.g. Block A and Block B . Each block contains a plurality of newsroom scripts with each script often being associated with a self contained news story. Newsroom scripts are identified by number e.g. Block A may have Script A 1 and Script A 2 .

The producer commands in each newsroom script are used to assist in the production of the news program e.g. by specifying the lighting settings . The on air text in each newsroom script is typically written by a producer and contains the actual text that is sent to a teleprompter and intended to be read aloud e.g. by a news anchor during a news program i.e. to correspond to the news story associated with the newsroom script . Newsroom scripts are stored in the newsroom script database and contain references e.g. pointers to associated media e.g. a video component stored in the video component database or an image stored in the image database .

Next a user selects a portion of the on air text included in the newsroom script that is desired to be included in the publish point content e.g. by highlighting the text using a mouse or other input device such that in step a selected portion or at least an indication thereof of the on air text is received from the user. In step a menu is provided to the user via the user interface that includes a plurality of selectable publish points . The user then selects one or more publish points to which the created content will be submitted such that in step one or more selected publish points are received from the user. In at least one embodiment a check is also performed to ensure that the selected portion of the on air newsroom script does not exceed the maximum number of characters permitted by any selected publish point . In the event that this occurs a user may be notified and prompted to select another portion of text and or edit the currently selected text. Alternatively the text may be divided into two or more separate submissions either automatically or upon a request from the user. In step a menu is provided to the user with a draft of the content to be submitted to the publish point including the selected portion of the on air text.

In some embodiments the provided text may be case corrected since on air text is often written in all upper case letters which may not be desired in content submitted to a publish point . The user can then modify the selected portion of the on air text such that in step a modified version of the selected portion of the on air text is received from the user. Depending on the publish point additional options such as the inclusion of media e.g. a video component or image in the publish point content may also be provided to the user. Retrieval of such media is described in greater detail below.

Among other things the above described technique provides an advantage over the traditional approach of creating publish point content e.g. by manually typing the text portion in that it takes advantage of previously written on air text to improve the accuracy of the text included in the publish point content e.g. the content will have improved accuracy as related to statements actually made on a news program that airs . Such accuracy and therefore reliability improves the effectiveness of publish point content in creating a connection with an end user e.g. a consumer of social media . Due to the intended use of the on air text i.e. to literally be read aloud on the air there is a preexisting need to ensure that the information contained therein is accurate and relevant to a given news story. This preexisting need is thereby leveraged to provide added benefits to previously unrelated activities namely the creation and submission of content to a publish point .

Returning to the additional feature of retrieving media in the event that a selected publish point provides for the inclusion of video as part of or in association with submitted content the user is given the opportunity to include a relevant video component as part of the submitted content. As such in one embodiment the video component database newsroom management system retrieved media is a video component associated with the newsroom script. In this embodiment the newsroom management system includes and or is tightly integrated with the video management system with each being specially configured to integrate with each other at an operational level such that they provide features that are not available in traditional newsroom management systems and particularly those related to the described publish point features. Indeed since newsroom scripts maintained in the newsroom script database include references e.g. a MOS object reference to video components in the video component database an associated video component for a given newsroom script can be retrieved and automatically included in content submitted to a publish point . As such in step a video component associated with the selected newsroom script i.e. the script containing the on air text selected by the user is retrieved from the video management database . Moreover since the video management system and therefore the recording and playout server is integrated into the newsroom management system in step the retrieved video component can be edited directly in the newsroom management system e.g. upon receiving editing requests from a user . For example the user could request modifying the starting and ending positions to select a subset of the full video component before including it in the content for submission to a publish point .

Many publish points also provide for the inclusion of an image as part of or in association with the submitted content. For example select publish points provide for the inclusion of an image that corresponds to an included video component e.g. to be shown to the end user as a preview icon for the video component also commonly known as a thumbnail image . Again through tight integration with the video management system the user is provided with the opportunity to retrieve still images from the directly accessible video component for use as part of and or in association with the content submitted to the publish point . To assist the user with selecting an image in step the user is provided with a preview of the video component and a frame marker via the user interface . In step a position of the frame marker is adjusted based upon a request received from the user and in step an image of the video component is defined based on a frame associated with the frame marker.

The user may be further provided with options to move forward or backward some predefined number of frames to provide greater ease and more intuitive frame navigation. In at least one embodiment the user has the option to move inclusively between 1 60 between 30 120 and between 60 9 000 frames per movement and more particularly the user may have the option to move 1 30 or 1 800 frames per movement notably for video having a 30 frames per second frame rate 30 frames represent 1 second of video and 1 800 frames represent 1 minute of video with incrementally displaced frames being loaded from the video component database each time the frame marker is moved to reduce memory retrieval time . However these frame movement settings may be adjusted as desired e.g. proportionally scaled for different frame rates .

In some embodiments a default image for an associated video component may also be selected e.g. based on the first frame of the associated video component . It may also be the case that the user is allowed to select from a list of generic images e.g. when no video associated with the news story exists or from another available source. As such in one embodiment the newsroom management system and the retrieved media is an image associated with the newsroom script. Similar to the steps described above with respect to retrieval of an associated video component in step an image associated with the newsroom script is retrieved from the image database .

It should be noted that in some embodiments a user may retrieve a video component associated with the newsroom script simply to obtain an associated image i.e. by using the frame selection technique described above but may not include the video component itself in the content submitted to the publish point. Likewise an image may be selected that is not associated with a particular video component but that is otherwise desired to be included in the content submitted to the publish point.

In another embodiment a user is provided with the opportunity to obtain publish point content e.g. an image video or other media from another source such as an email website database etc. and is provided with a path destination window in which the user can select the media in the appropriate location.

Publish point content may also be retrieved through use of a relevancy system. Using this technique in step a subset of the selected portion of the associated newsroom script is sent to the relevancy subsystem and in step media resulting from a search based on the subset of the selected portion of the on air text is retrieved from a media database which may be external but accessible to the relevancy subsystem . In some embodiments the subset of the selected portion of the on air text is the entire selected portion. However in other embodiment filters may be applied to remove certain text e.g. terms such as a and the from the selected portion before sending the request to the relevancy subsystem. In utilizing this technique by a user s mere selection of a portion of an on air text portion of a newsroom script the relevancy system returns a set of video components images or other media that can be selected by a user and included in the content submitted to a publish point.

In another embodiment the publish point content may include media associated with a newsroom script e.g. based on a MOS object reference or on search results obtained from the relevancy system but not an on air text portion of the newsroom script. This allows a user to select a newsroom script generally e.g. Script A instead of selecting a portion of the associated on air text to create relevant publish point content. In yet another embodiment a selection of on air text may be used solely to identify media sought to be submitted to a publish point. These embodiments allow a user to skip the step of modifying a selected portion of on air text thereby further streamlining the process of submitting content to a publish point i.e. without a text portion .

In step the user s request to submit the content as configured to a publish point is received in step login credentials for each of the selected publish points are retrieved from the login credential database and in step the publish point content is submitted to each selected publish point using the retrieved corresponding login credentials. Use of such login credentials is particularly beneficial when users are submitting content to multiple publish points as individual users need not be given login credentials for each publish point. In some embodiments login credentials may also include particular data required by the corresponding publish point to permit for automatic submissions i.e. by reducing or eliminating user intervention as described below .

The newsroom management system may also be configured such that it requires a master login to prevent unauthorized access to the associated publish points. Also in submitting content to each publish point an appropriate protocol such as an application programming interface is retrieved e.g. from the login credential database and followed such that the content can be submitted.

Typically the protocol for a publish point defines certain restrictions such as what types of content can be submitted. Such restrictions may be leveraged to assist the user in selecting content for submission. For example if one of the selected publish points does not accept video submissions the user may be notified of the same and is restricted from selecting video such as by disabling the option in the user interface .

In an alternative embodiment a given newsroom script is associated with predefined publish point content e.g. defined at the time the newsroom script is created and is tagged for auto publishing. This technique is used to reduce or eliminate user intervention at or around the time the content is intended to be submitted to a publish point. For example as a producer is drafting an on air text portion of a newsroom script the producer may select associated content e.g. a portion of the on air text portion or media associated with the newsroom script designate it as appropriate content for submission to a publish point and tag the newsroom script for auto publishing. Thereafter as the news program airs the predefined content associated with the appropriate newsroom script is automatically submitted to the publish point. Preferably the time at which the on air text of the newsroom script is sent to a teleprompter is used to trigger the automatic submission of content to the publish point but other timing mechanisms are also considered as triggering events e.g. a timer alert .

It should further be noted that each of the content selection and login credential features discussed throughout this application are still applicable to this alternative embodiment. As such the producer may predefine video images or other content or rely on media obtained from the relevancy system for automatic submission to one or more publish points using appropriate protocols and login credentials. Using this technique select user intervention can be further reduced or eliminated thereby providing an even greater ability to efficiently and accurately create and submit publish point content that is relevant to an associated news program.

Notably the present system and method may also be used in connection with a news program that is aired on the radio. In such embodiments the newsroom script contains on air text that is intended to be read aloud by a radio broadcaster during a news program and therefore the above described techniques can be similarly applied. Notably while a newsroom script that is used for radio does not contain a link or reference to a particular video component since video is not supported by a radio broadcast video components may still be obtained such as via use of the relevancy system as described above.

It is noted that the described steps throughout this application need not be performed in the disclosed order. Further the steps need not be performed sequentially but can also be performed in parallel as desired. Further not all steps need to be performed to achieve the desired goals of the present invention and therefore not all steps are required.

Throughout this application in some instances steps may be defined by activity of the user. In these instances such described steps should also be interpreted as describing the computer readable medium and or system hardware components as containing instructions that when executed take appropriate steps or provide appropriate output requesting the user to perform such steps and or instructions for receiving the user s input and proceeding accordingly.

Although the present invention has been described in terms of certain embodiments and generally associated methods alterations combinations and permutations of these embodiments and methods will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the above description of example embodiments does not define or constrain the present invention.

Other changes substitutions and alterations are also possible without departing from the invention in its broader aspects as set forth in the following claims.

