---

title: System and method for identity recognition and affiliation of a user in a service transaction
abstract: The method integrates the dynamic and authoritative posture of an authenticated user, a registered device, and a registered service provider as a conclusive proof of identity recognition for affiliation of associated contextual attribution and referential integrity. In addition to relieving the user of the burden of remembering multiple passwords for a plurality of services, the method provides a means to facilitate an affiliation oriented architecture for a broad spectrum of web and cloud based services with affiliation aware content streaming, leveraging the affiliation score as a key trust metric. The method provides protection from user-agnostic delegation and impersonation of identity, social engineering, and compromised passwords, which are exploited by numerous strains of landed malware to launch multi-stage coordinated cyber-attacks on consumer accounts and enterprise systems. The method of affiliation based on identity recognition provides authoritative, contextual, and consensual user information, of relevance in a live transaction, to the service provider.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09503452&OS=09503452&RS=09503452
owner: AUTOMITI LLC
number: 09503452
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160627
---
This invention relates to the field of cybersecurity and more particularly to a system and method to provide authoritative user identity recognition based device association and proof of presence of the user at the device and user affiliation based on static and association attributes of a recognized user. The invention also provides a method to break the kill chain which causes a network compromise and or a data breach by enhancing the user login ceremony authentication sequence with identity recognition and affiliation as key trust metrics to prevent the exploit of compromised user credentials.

Legacy authentication mechanisms relied solely on the use of a password to identify a user authoritatively with proof of possession of credentials as the single factor. This is referred to as the what you know factor. The likelihood of a password compromise being the root cause of an intrusion and data breach drove the industry to promote two factor authentication based on the what you have factor as the quintessential second factor. The second factor could be a key fob with a one time code a fingerprint smart card or other biometric techniques. The user must furnish proof of possession of two artifacts for multi factor authentication. To strengthen passwords one time passcodes are used as a mechanism to introduce entropy.

However a significant problem that remained was the proliferation of passwords as Internet enabled applications and services hosted in the cloud. Users face the challenge of creating strong passwords for every service or application they use and the burden of making these passwords harder to guess or crack with automation. CAPTCHA Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart is used as a challenge response to thwart automated password cracking attacks. The emerging cybersecurity threats referred to as advanced persistent attacks are highly coordinated and multi stage attacks that leverage the user as the weakest link in the chain. User is the carbon the exploit and staging surface for such high end attacks. Once a user s account is compromised role based access controls are rendered ineffective. That shifts the onus of breach prevention on user behavior recognition. This is a challenge because a compromised user essentially delegates permissions and privileges to the attacker human or malware to perform legitimate actions and operations on behalf of the user thereby rendering anomaly detection unreliable. Such compromised actions may vary from financial transactions online payments attacks on critical infrastructure theft of intellectual property takeover of Internet of Things IoT devices to ransomware.

Other approaches based on use of symmetric or asymmetric encryption technologies rely on solutions that manage passwords in an identity vault for automated authentication or rely on a first entity to authoritatively authenticate a user in one realm for use in another realm by another relying entity single sign on . Such methods require implicit trust in the identity provider. The Security Token Service STS offers a protocol and schema Security Assertion Markup Language SAML to achieve two party trust. Other approaches propose the use of more than two multi part keys for encryption of credentials. However the original problem persists as the user must still enter a username and password combination pair to login to the primary provider single sign on and the risk is further exacerbated because now a compromised single credential provides the attackers access to a plurality of websites and applications without requiring explicit re authentication.

The stricter password strength requirements imposed by online services have led to users unable to remember passwords self evident by the Forgot Password hyperlink and security questions to reset or recover passwords. The password centric authentication paradigm is outdated and needs retooling to the realities of modern cyber regime.

The major technology gap that remains is that none of the existing approaches provide conclusive proof of identity recognition that is the key driver for use of affiliation that enables dynamic and consensual attribution of the user or a user device and provides referential integrity to a service provider for the purpose of personalization and customization of services for the user or user device. Further the risks posed by social engineering an intrusion method by which hackers exploit the vulnerability and psychology of human interactions for cybercrime are amplified by reliance on na ve user s awareness of modi operandi of professional hackers and or shifting the onus of password protection to non technical users in a utility model multi tenant ecosystem.

Passwords are the weakest link in the cyber kill chain. Compromise of a single password may cause an intrusion and subsequent data breach. Theft of passwords in a data breach may cause harm to several users. Breach of user s password may lead to identity fraud. Accordingly there is a need to protect passwords for responsible digital citizenship preempt data breaches caused by compromise of an employee or contractor password or stolen devices and preempting cyber attacks on ubiquitous IoT devices through malicious access.

Unlike contemporary single sign on SSO and brokered authentication services that provide federated identity or tokens for implicit cross realm authentication the present disclosure describes a method for authoritative proof of device associated identity beyond a device agnostic passcode provided by the user. The cyber threats e.g. data breaches damage to mission critical assets ransomware etc. orchestrated by using infected compromised unmanaged or unknown devices may be mitigated by such a methodology.

The technology challenge today is in establishing non repudiable trust in the provenance of an authenticated user preempting risks posed by exploit of stolen user credentials and qualifying connections in the social network for authoritative affiliation.

The proposed system and method provide authoritative Identity Recognition of an authenticated user wherein the user authentication requires a device watermark associated with the user s device and Identity Affiliation of the user in a service transaction by means of a user token issued by a broker and a service identifier issued by the accessed service wherein the affiliation information is transmitted as a user token that includes a dynamically computed affiliation score component scores and affiliation attributes.

The device watermark is not stored on the user s device or on the broker server is not stored in memory or on storage media on the user s device or on the broker server is never transmitted on the network and is dynamically generated using a hash function autonomously on the user s device and on the broker server. The device watermark is generated using a plurality of device identifiers tightly coupled and locked to the user s device wherein the device identifiers include volatile and non volatile software system and hardware level indicators. Further the disclosed device watermark does not require any external physical device such as for example a universal serial bus USB pluggable dongle a hardware fob a key fob or a registered phone to receive a one time passcode as required by two factor authentication mechanisms.

The service identifier issued by the accessed service is digitally signed with a server private key and transmitted over a secure encrypted channel e.g. HTTPS with extended server certification validation.

The user token for identity affiliation is generated only upon service identifier verification and transmitted over a secure encrypted channel e.g. HTTPS .

The proposed method of Identity Recognition is not yet another method for password management or protection. Instead the proposed innovation clearly defines Identity Recognition as a method of identifying the user prior to an authentication ceremony based on a device watermark associated with the user s device a service identifier for verification of the accessed service prior to transmittal of the encrypted password for decryption at the user s device and decryption on the user s device of the encrypted password using the device watermark and the user s personal identification code known only to the user and linked to the accessed service that requires user authentication or the user identification code encrypted using a device pre shared secret for the accessed service that does not require user authentication.

The proposed method of Identity Affiliation is defined as a mechanism to generate and issue a user token comprising of at least an affiliation score component scores and affiliation attributes for the user requested by the accessed service and consented to by the user during a service transaction with or without user authentication. The user token request generation requires use of the device watermark the device pre shared secret and a user identification code. Further the affiliations of a user are qualified and consented relationships between other users and organizations.

The proposed service authentication codes and user identification codes as exemplary embodiments of the user personal identification code provide the ability for multiple users to securely share a single device and the associated device watermark using different private personal identification codes.

The proposed method of service identifier verification prior to transmittal of the encrypted password for decryption at the local user device serves as an effective control to automatically preempt phishing attacks staged on gullible users.

The proposed method of identity affiliation serves as an effective control to automatically preempt watering hole attacks staged against a group of users by infecting websites visited by the cohort. The affiliation request without requiring user authentication by the accessed website provides the ability to identify a lone wolf or a cybercrime syndicate member and the geo location of the attacker because of the qualified and consented nature of affiliations.

The proposed method of the disclosed system provides recognition of the user and device in a service transaction makes affiliation intelligence about a user available to a service with live user consent sends alerts to victims about identity impersonation through qualified affiliations and simplifies on off boarding of users and bring your own devices BYODs in enterprise and cloud ecosystems. The solution is achieved through a disclosed method of watermarking user s devices for provenance scoring users based on qualified affiliations and dynamic data fusion with directed graphs to model attribute based relationships.

The proposed method of the disclosed system uses two types of personal identification codes PIC for each user a Service Authentication Code SAC and a User Identification Code UIC .

In one exemplary embodiment of the disclosed method for access to services that require authentication the PIC is a SAC that is created by the user and known exclusively only by the user. The user s SAC is never transmitted on the wire and is not stored locally at the device or remotely at the broker and the device watermark is generated dynamically and autonomously by the device and the broker and never transmitted on the wire to establish proof of presence of the user at the device during the service transaction. The user s SAC and the device watermark are used to encrypt the password associated with an accessed service for use during an authentication ceremony. Unlike two factor authentication credentials and PINs the user SAC is not registered with an identity provider IdP is not part of the authentication password of the user one time passcodes and is used solely to encrypt the user s original authentication password. This facilitates a in the use of stronger passwords and periodic password changes without the burden of having to evoke hard to remember passwords and b in blocking the use of compromised passwords by an attacker from the attacker s device.

In another exemplary embodiment of the disclosed method for access to services that do not require authentication the PIC is a UIC that is created by the user as a member of a group identified by an account number through a self service portal. The UIC is encrypted by the device agent using a device pre shared secret for transmission over a secure channel to the broker agent.

In certain exemplary embodiments of the disclosed method where the UIC is not explicitly provided by the user at the device the user who registered the device may be inferred from the device AIN.

The method of the disclosed system protects a a compromised device watermark from malicious use from an attacker s device by requiring the user s SAC that is known only to the user and b a compromised user SAC from malicious use from an attacker s device by requiring the matching device watermark. Further compromise of a device watermark would require compromise of the device pre shared key PSK and a plurality of device identifiers associated with the user s registered device.

In sharp contrast to traditional brokered authentication ceremony such as the identity provider and relying party RP or service provider SP model the disclosed system provides an authoritative recognition of the user at the device rather than an authentication mechanism for a user based on biometric or device attributes. The user provides authentication credentials to the accessed service without having to manually enter hard to remember passwords for service login sign in . Unlike password managers the proposed method does not store the user s multiple passwords in a security vault protected by a single password locally at the user device synchronized across the user s devices or in the cloud for automated authentication using form autofill. In the disclosed method the user encrypts the passwords at the device using a user SAC known only to the user and a dynamically generated device watermark and registers the encrypted password with a broker to generate an on demand user token that includes the encrypted password in subsequent accesses to a service. The encrypted password can be decrypted only at the device using the dynamically generated device watermark and the user SAC known only to the user. The user may use the same SAC for all accessed services from a device different SACs for each accessed service at a device or different SACs at different devices for the same accessed service.

The proposed method provides the ability to resync a registered device with one click if the device identifiers change and re encrypt all passwords protected using the same user SAC with one click if the user s SAC is compromised on the device without requiring all passwords to be changed. Unlike password managers the proposed method does not generate new passwords for the user.

The proposed method provides user and device identity recognition prior to an authentication ceremony between a service provider and an identity provider.

Unlike Single Sign On SSO methods wherein a first authentication with an identity provider is the basis for a token e.g. SAML based second authentication with a service provider requiring an explicit second authentication the disclosed innovation facilitates in a password based authentication ceremony without requiring the user to remember and manually enter the password in a service transaction.

Unlike an attribute exchange network that merely harvests and distributes to a policy decision point service provider user and or device assertions retrieved from commercial and or authoritative attribute providers the disclosed innovation constructs a directed graph comprising of entity vertices and relationship links processes attributes as dependent or independent variables maps the attributes to a component and evaluates a component score and the relative impact i.e. positive negative or none of the attribute in the calculus of an affiliation score for the user.

The proposed affiliation based method is not a distribution system for attributes in an information data warehouse attribute exchange . Instead the disclosed method serves as a scoring system based on incremental attribute relationships and impact.

The proposed identity affiliation is not an attribute based access control but rather a score based on entity relationships in a directed graph for post access privilege management wherein the entities include users organizations and profiles and relationships include dependent and independent attributes of the entities.

The proposed method uses the plurality of local device identifiers and a device pre shared key shared by the broker with the device over a secure channel through a hash function to dynamically generate a device watermark for device recognition rather than user authentication. The user recognition is based on the username associated with the service principal name SPN and the user SAC that may be associated with a plurality of passwords and a plurality of accessed services across multiple user devices. This addresses a key market challenge wherein a large cohort of users rely on multiple and weak passwords to access many websites and applications every day from multiple user devices e.g. laptops desktops at work or at home smart phones tablets etc. without using two factor authentication or a password manager.

The method of the disclosed system provides identity affiliation based on identity recognition that comprises of at least an affiliation score component scores and affiliation attributes for a user with explicit user consent for distribution of requested identity affiliation during a service transaction and on demand by the accessed service. The identity affiliation is independent of any optional authentication ceremony during the service transaction with the accessed service.

According to an exemplary embodiment the present disclosure provides a method to send requested affiliations comprising of attributes and scores calculated using entity relationships and a dynamically constructed and traversed directed graph of the user to a service or application with explicit user consent in a service transaction wherein authentication of the user to the accessed service may be optional.

According to yet another exemplary embodiment the present disclosure provides a mechanism for remote management services to preempt unauthorized e.g. malicious phishing compromised account etc. access to managed devices e.g. IoT devices in home automation systems surveillance systems etc. wherein the remote management devices are watermarked and linked to managed service accounts.

Further areas of applicability of the present disclosure will become apparent from the detailed description provided hereinafter. It should be understood that the detailed description of exemplary embodiments are intended for illustration purposes only and are therefore not intended to necessarily limit the scope of the disclosure.

Although the disclosure is illustrated and described herein with reference to specific embodiments the invention is not intended to be limited to the details shown herein. Rather various modifications may be made in the details within the scope and range of equivalents of the claims and without departing from the scope of the disclosure.

The method of identity recognition is based on positive affirmation by a broker server of a registered device as proof of presence of the user at the identified device and verification of the user based on a manually entered user SAC. The user SAC is never transmitted on the wire encrypted or unencrypted during an authentication handshake login ceremony or during a management session self service portal .

The device registration and dynamic verification is based on the group account number and a plurality of attributes and components of the device. The attributes include at least hardware identification of the mother board or mezzanine card Trusted Platform Module TPM chip identifier processor identification manufacturer identification integrated resource identification e.g. camera monitor keypad mouse pluggable device identification e.g. USB flash drive web camera etc. etc. Bluetooth device identification hardware configuration e.g. memory storage etc. service tags product registrations wireless service identifiers geo location by internet protocol IP address registered device asset identification number AIN and globally unique identifier GUID of a domain enrolled computer. The registered device non reputable attributes DNA of the device are used to dynamically generate the globally unique device watermark and the associated device AIN that remain invariant across sessions.

The globally unique device watermark is dynamically generated by a hash function using a device pre shared key PSK shared by the broker agent with the device agent over a secure channel and device identifiers associated with the registered device autonomously at the device by the device agent and at the broker agent using the device AIN. The device watermark is thereby not persisted in memory or storage on the device or at the broker.

The identification of users is based on the group or subscription account number device registrations and service profiles wherein the passwords in the service profiles are encrypted using the device watermark and the user s SAC and include at least a service principal name e.g. a Uniform Resource Locator URL or Uniform Resource Name URN by which a client uniquely identifies an instance of a service a username associated with the SPN a password and a device AIN. The user SAC is entered locally at the device to decrypt the passwords in the service profiles for use in a transaction.

In one exemplary embodiment of the disclosed system the PIC may comprise at least four 4 alphanumeric characters that may include both upper and lower case letters punctuation marks and symbols e.g. and . For languages other than English alphanumeric characters include letter variations.

In an exemplary embodiment of the disclosed system the password contained in the service profile is encrypted using the dynamically generated device watermark for the device and the user s SAC.

The user token request to the broker during a user transaction with a registered service from a registered device includes the device AIN the account number a timestamp a digital signature generated using the device watermark and the timestamp the service principal name SPN the username where the accessed service requires authentication or the user s UIC encrypted using the device pre shared key where the accessed service does not require authentication the received digitally signed service identifier via the service agent and the accessed service host address i.e. IP address . The user token response may include the encrypted password in the service profile that was originally encrypted during service registration using the device watermark and the user s SAC at the registered device. The encrypted password in the service profile may only be decrypted at the device using the device watermark and the user s SAC.

The user token request may be protected against replay and man in the middle attacks using standard timestamp and message integrity signatures over secure channels between the device agent and the broker agent.

The identity recognition in a live transaction requires the user s PIC and a one time user token issued by the broker based on verification of the device watermark linked to the service profile to authenticate the recognized user to the service with optional affiliation context comprising of an affiliation score component scores and categorical affiliation attributes. The one time user token may include either the encrypted password or a pre authentication token of the user.

The identity affiliation based on identity recognition is established by processing as a directed graph a variety of large datasets harvested from a plurality of third party authoritative data providers data sources and queried by one or more of a user name an address a telephone number and the last 4 digits or alphabets of a federal state or local government issued identification number e.g. social security number SSN taxpayer identification number TIN passport driver s license identification card etc. . The received datasets include user profile information attributes such as memberships in public or private organizations credit history proof of insurance civic records health records property ownership employment history education records subscriptions to utility services gas electric and cable etc. The queries are also directed to receive datasets relating to organizations a user may be associated linked with that include organization profile information attributes such as company ranking revenues employees sector etc. The purpose of identity affiliation post identity recognition is to adequately qualify associations relationships of the user to a plurality of independent and trusted nodes entities that may comprise of other users and organizations to establish authoritative and referential integrity based on the user profile.

The proposed method of identity provenance based affiliation provides an open services interface and architecture for affiliation aware filtering streaming and customization of content for a user. The approach transcends complex role based access controls in cross realm domain applications eliminating administrative overheads for content providers in cyber space.

The proposed method of identity recognition and affiliation in an online web transaction significantly reduces the risks and advanced threats posed by password compromise delegation and or impersonation of a user by landed malware and facilitates traceability of the user s managed or unmanaged device and location associated with a staged cyber attack. Impersonation flows the user s identity to back end resources on the same computer. Delegation flows the user s identity to back end resources on computers other than the computer running the service.

The method of establishing affiliations between registered users of the Identity Recognition and Affiliation IRA service requires explicit consent of the user to accept an affiliation to detect identity theft. A registered malicious user U may assume the identity of a victim user U using the victim s name compromised email password and or contact telephone number. When user Uconnects to another registered user U to establish an affiliation by impersonating user U there are at least two 2 methods to detect the malicious user U. The registered user Ureceives an affiliation invite along with user Uinformation including at least the name telephone number and email address of the victim user Uas impersonated by the malicious user U. The registered user Umay ascertain whether user Usending the affiliation invite is a person of acquaintance and if so whether any received user Uinformation is indeed that of the acquaintance. The registered user Umay contact the acquaintance Uto confirm whether the invite was indeed initiated by the acquaintance before accepting the invite. Concurrently the victim user Ureceives an alert message by email text or phone to be notified about the affiliation invite initiated to registered user U even where the victim user U may not be a registered user of the IRA service. The disclosed method of consent based affiliations therein provides a way to detect identity theft and dispatch alerts to a community of victims who are not registered users of the IRA service.

The affiliation score of a user is a qualitative and quantitative measure of the diversity of qualified attributes and relationships determined based on information available to the broker about the user. The affiliation score is derived based on a plurality of component scores wherein each component score is further determined based on relative weights and categorization of associated attributes received from multiple data sources about the user. There are at least four basic categories logical grouping of affiliations personal social professional and enterprise. Within each category there are a plurality of component scores possible based on associated attributes for example reference score honorary score utility score civic score education score insurance score finance score employment score travel score health score property score service score etc.

The privacy of the user s personal information i.e. user profile is secured by encrypting the data first at the user s device with the SAC of the user that is only known to the user i.e. not persisted on the user s device and subsequently further encrypting the data at a remote server with a server platform identification number PIN that is generated dynamically i.e. not persisted on the remote server based on user profile information and server hardware entropy. This provides two layers of protection for user s data at rest i.e. on persistent storage .

The calculus for the affiliation score uses directed graph theory with a set of objects nodes connected together where all the edges links are directed from one node to another and functional homomorphic encryption used for obfuscation. The broker service harvests a variety of user attributes from a plurality of authoritative data sources through directed queries for a user. The user attributes which may be cached in a repository include information across personal social professional and enterprise domains. The user s static and association attributes are used to construct a dynamic directed graph to represent entities as nodes and relationships as links. Entities include a community of users social networking connections organizations roles and groups. The relationships represent an association type e.g. parent sibling child employer employee member colleague friend advisor contact vendor contractor supervisor student client doctor landlord banker partner agent coach teacher tutor associate intern etc. or a profile type e.g. finance reference education civic insurance honorary employment utility property travel health service etc. . The directed graph is traversed to calculate a plurality of component scores based on a score criteria and a score function. The score function computes a weighted score for each of the entities and relationships matching the score criteria.

The affiliation score calculation is based on hierarchical non hierarchical e.g. lateral peer to peer cyclic and non cyclic interdependencies between entities e.g. user and non user objects . Each node is an entity e.g. user organization profile etc. and may optionally be assigned attributes. Each link represents a relationship with assigned attributes that have a static or dynamic absolute score. The absolute score of an entity is unconditional and may be assigned by a data provider or calculated by directed graph traversals. The affiliation score calculation for a user entity is a conditional score based on weighted absolute scores of other entities and relationships in the directed graph.

The device may be any type of hardware appliance including for example a laptop desktop tablet smart phone server IoT device etc.

The broker agent may send email text or voice based event notifications to the registered user about successful and failed authentication attempts to access a registered service from a registered device including information about the date and time of the episode device geo location and service profile.

The harm caused by lost or stolen devices in a virtualization and cloud centric ecosystem where users are increasingly migrating their private data and applications to is enormous. The credentials cached remembered by the web browser and passwords saved in a document pose a bigger risk as an attacker could exploit these credentials now in their possession to access the user s online data.

In one exemplary embodiment of the invention a lost or stolen registered device is protected by a requiring knowledge of the user s PIC that is only known to the user b a lockout after a set limit on incorrect PIC entry and c a notification of the episode to the user by the broker agent on use of an incorrect PIC.

In another exemplary embodiment of the invention a lost or stolen registered device is protected by deregistering the device through a self service management portal accessed by the account manager using the group or subscription account number and account password or the registered user s username and user password.

Attributes harvested through directed queries to a plurality of data sources including data exchanges public organizations private organizations background check engines published reports ratings bureaus etc. may be processed by the broker service to generate derivative attributes. As examples a age group attributes may be derived from age b credit status attributes may be derived from the FICO score c good student attributes may be derived from a college grade d professional engineer attributes may be derived from certifications and e good driver attributes may be derived based on citations.

The fraction coefficients in an equation or function in a calculus of score may be generated by a empirical evidence b applying statistical regression using attributes harvested in the broker repository c industry standards or d applying a uniform distribution.

Referring to and at blocks and the attributes table provides examples to illustrate the types of affiliation attributes that are harvested retrieved by query from a plurality of data providers sources including the member user classified by category and mapped to a component. The component score may be calculated as a static or dynamic score based on a discrete constant value a ranking grading equation a weighted equation normalization or a multi attribute function grammar expressions . The attributes may be independent of or dependent on other association or profile based attributes of a component. The impact signifies whether an attribute has a positive negative or no effect on the component score and consequently on the affiliation score. The extensibility of attributes in the present disclosure will be readily appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art from the illustrated table.

S t a where is a fraction coefficient 1 and tis a lookup table containing the rank score rfor attribute an. For example the education score may be calculated based on college degree and grade attributes wherein the ranks rare based on colleges attended published college rankings accreditation of the degree and grade scored. For example the finance score based on a FICO score may be ranked as excellent 760 850 very good 700 759 good 660 699 not good 620 659 poor 580 619 or very poor 500 579 .

S e a where is a fraction coefficient 1 and eis a mathematical expression that determines a static score for an independent attribute an. For example the employment score may be calculated based on company ranking employees revenues job position and years of service.

S f a a . . . a where is a fraction coefficient 1 and f is a program function that calculates a static score for a set of dependent attributes a a . . . a. For example the property score may be calculated based on multiple properties the user may be linked with and the status owner renter or foreclosure and the city and state as the property valuation is dependent on location. Further the impact may vary per property based on status.

S Swhere Sis the score for attribute a of link l in the directed graph traversal mapped to component c.

The following real world applications vulnerable to exploits with a user s compromised password benefit from the proposed authoritative identity recognition and affiliation method.

Referring to a user uses a plurality of devices wherein a registered device has a dynamically generated globally unique device watermark . A plurality of applications may be installed on the registered device . An application such as for example a web browser installed on the registered device performs an online transaction with a service that may require authentication i.e. sign in such as for example a web based email service or with a service that does not require authentication such as for example an online news website. The service may query affiliations that are attributed with the user that is performing the online transaction with the service . The user has two types of personal identification codes PIC a service authentication code SAC and a user identification code UIC . The user may also have an affiliation score and may be a member of a group account . The affiliations may be categorized as personal social professional or enterprise . The personal affiliations may be based off a public profile . The social affiliations may be based on connections with a community of users . The professional affiliations may be based on connections to organizations . The enterprise affiliations may be based on assigned roles and groups in an identity management system such as for example a directory of an authentication system.

Referring to and the user is provided a set of user controls at the registered device to manage toggle the Identity Recognition and Affiliation IRA mode of operation. Control enables the IRA mode of operation so that the user does not have to remember or manually enter passwords on access to a service that requires authentication or disables the mode to allow user to switch to explicit use of passwords through manual entry. Control provides a proximity based auto disable of the IRA mode of operation as a security locking mechanism when the user is away from the registered device. Control always asks prompts the user for the IRA PIC SAC or UIC on each attempted service access to block silent impersonation or delegation by malware in stealth of the user s credentials. Control sends live hourly or daily notifications of transactions as email text and or popups. Control allows the user to provide explicit consent to disclose requested affiliations to the service provider on user access to the service. Control allows the user to share the registered device with other members of the group account. Control allows the user to register or deregister the device with the broker .

Referring to and the service generically represents alternate embodiments of services that require or that do not require authentication .

Referring to and at block a user at a device instrumented with the device agent uses a client application e.g. a web browser or application to initiate a service access request to a service . At block the service returns a web response page that includes an IRA service icon a service identifier and optional affiliation requests. The page is rendered at the device to the user by the client application . At block the user clicks on the IRA service icon to commence a local ceremony where the user is prompted to provide a service profile a PIC SAC or UIC and consent to disclose requested affiliations to the service . At block upon user submission of the page a user token request is built by the client application using dynamic device identifiers wherein the identifiers may include the hardware identification of the mother board or mezzanine card Trusted Platform Module TPM identifier device serial number service tag number camera hardware identifier geo location by IP address processor identification hard disk serial number installed memory operating system and edition product ID manufacturer ID monitor hardware ID computer name USB device IDs and WiFi SSIDs. At block a user token request is generated and sent to the broker . At block the broker processes the request from the client application to validate the authenticity of the received service identifier and associated fully qualified domain name FQDN of the service determined from the received service host address. A one time user token that is linked to the service identifier included in the user token request is generated. The generated one time user token is sent to the client application on the user s device . At block the received user token is processed to complete and submit the received page along with the user token to the service . The encrypted password received from the broker in the user token at block is consumed by the client application to complete form based authentication and is not forwarded to the service . At block the service may send a user token verification request to the broker . At block the broker validates the received one time user token by referencing static configuration and dynamic operations metadata in the broker repository .

In an exemplary embodiment of the disclosed system the timestamp in the user token request may be generated locally at the device configured for network time synchronization or received from the broker agent during the initial SSL handshake e.g. server hello message between the device agent and the broker agent.

In one exemplary embodiment of the disclosed system at block the service identifier is encrypted using the private key of the server in hosting the service .

In one exemplary embodiment of the disclosed system at block the broker requests a pre authentication token for example using the OAuth OpenID SSO or Kerberos protocol from the service by sending an authenticator containing at least a secret key issued for the broker by the service provider the username of the user an optional timestamp and optional IP address of the device . At block the user token includes a pre authentication token issued to the broker by a service for the user . When a pre authentication token is included no password is required and just a valid username is adequate to authenticate the user to the service . The pre authorization token may be issued for one time use only or for a session duration. The pre authentication tokens for the user may be stored in the broker repository with a set expiration date and time based on session duration.

In one exemplary embodiment of the disclosed system the broker may issue a single user token for identity recognition and affiliation or issue split user tokens one user token for identity recognition and one use token for identity affiliation.

Referring to and the user accesses a service that requires authentication to grant user access. The user provides the SAC for the client application to request a user token wherein on the user s device the method of token request creation requires the dynamically generated device watermark the device pre shared key the device AIN and the service identifier issued to the service by the broker received at block . The broker verifies the received service identifier encrypted with the private key of the service provider and only upon successful verification that preempts phishing attacks with the associated public key generates and issues a user token with the affiliation information and encrypted password for decryption at the user s device with the device watermark and the user s SAC. At block the username the decrypted password and the user token are forwarded to the service over an encrypted secure channel e.g. HTTPS with extended validation of the server certificate.

At block an attacker at a device in possession of the compromised username and password of user attempts to authenticate with service without the user token. The service may deny authentication based on requiring a user token with affiliation information for identity recognition prior to authentication.

At block an attacker faces a tremendous challenge to impersonate a the user s dynamic device watermark that is not stored at the user s device or at the broker b a plurality of device identifiers locked to the user s device c the user device pre shared secret d the device agent hash function and e the user s SAC known only to the user to generate a malicious one time user token that requires back channel validation by the broker .

Referring to and the user accesses a service that does not require authentication to grant user access. The user provides the UIC for the client application to request a user token wherein on the user s device the method of token request creation requires the dynamically generated device watermark the device pre shared key the user s UIC and the service identifier issued to the service by the broker received at block . The broker verifies the received service identifier encrypted with the private key of the service provider and only upon successful verification that preempts phishing attacks with the associated public key generates and issues a user token with the affiliation information. At block the user token is forwarded to the service .

At block an attacker at a device attempts to access service without the user token. The service may deny access based on requiring a user token with affiliation information for identity affiliation. For example watering hole attacks may be preempted by requesting affiliation information to establish whether the user attempting to access the website has a qualified affiliation with members of a group.

Referring to at block a user accesses the sign in form based authentication page of a service that requires authentication . The user first enters the username e.g. login identifier email address phone number etc. . Then the user clicks on the IRA service icon to initiate the IRA mode of operation.

In an alternate embodiment of the disclosed system the IRA service icon may be displayed on a web page other than a login page such as on a landing page or navigated page for a service that does not require authentication .

Referring to at block a user enters a username and clicks on the IRA service icon displayed by the client application at the device on a web response page from a service not yet registered by the user as a service profile that requires explicit authentication. The client application prompts the user to register the service profile before the authentication credentials with proof of identity recognition and requested affiliations are sent to the service by means of a one time user token.

At block the service principal name inferred from the accessed service URL and the username are displayed to the user . The user is prompted to enter the password and the user SAC based on user controls and with the icon to view affiliations if any requested by the service interact with a checkbox to allow or deny sending the affiliations and then to register the service or cancel the access .

At block a user enters a username and clicks on the IRA service icon displayed by the client application at the device on a web response page from a service already registered by the user with a service profile that requires explicit authentication. The client application prompts the user before the authentication credentials for the registered service profile with proof of identity recognition and requested affiliations are sent to the service by means of a one time user token.

At block the service principal name inferred from the accessed service URL and the username are displayed to the user . The user is prompted to enter the user SAC as set at during service registration at and based on user controls and with the icon to view affiliations if any requested by the service interact with a checkbox to allow or deny sending the affiliations and then to login or cancel the access .

Referring to in an alternate embodiment at block the user clicks on the IRA service icon displayed by the client application at the device on a web response page from a service that does not require any authentication. The client application prompts the user before any requested affiliations are sent to the service by means of a one time user token.

At block the service principal name inferred from the accessed service URL is displayed to the user . The user is prompted to optionally enter the user UIC based on user controls and with the icon to view affiliations if any requested by the service interact with a checkbox to allow or deny sending the affiliations and then to continue or cancel the access . If no explicit UIC is provided the user associated with the registered device is implicitly inferred as the user.

Referring to and at block the service registers using the service principal name SPN with the broker . The client certificate of the server hosting the service and server certificate of the broker server hosting the broker are used to establish a mutually secured connection using Secure Sockets Layer SSL or Transport Layer Security TLS . At block the broker generates and returns a universally unique service identifier linked to the fully qualified domain name FQDN of the server .

Referring to at block the user at device registers a service profile with the broker over a secured connection using SSL or TLS using the server certificate of the broker server . The password in the service profile is encrypted at the device by the client application using the device watermark and the user s SAC prior to being transmitted to the broker . At block the registered service profile of user is further encrypted using the hardware key of the broker server and stored in the broker repository . At block the client application at the device may query for the registered service profile of a service on access by the user to the service .

Referring to at block the broker queries a data provider for a user profile comprising of requested affiliation attributes over a mutually secured connection SSL or TLS using a client certificate of the broker server and a server certificate of the server hosting the data provider . At block the received profile is processed by the broker to tokenize the user affiliations . At block the affiliation score for the user is updated.

Referring to at block a service accessed by the user from device queries affiliations of the user for personalization over a secured connection SSL or TLS using the server certificate of the server hosting the service . At block the client application on the device prompts the user for consent and retrieves the requested user affiliations from the broker . The received user affiliations contained in a user token generated by the broker are forwarded to the service .

Referring to and at block the group account manager or registered user associated with the service subscription account connects to the broker dashboard self service portal using the account number and account password or the account number username and user password . The group account manager may add remove or manage users and create a password for the user members of the group to access the self service management portal at the broker dashboard . The registered user may delete devices or services or change the user password . At block a group is illustrated with one or more users wherein at each user is assigned a management password PWD and UIC.

At block each user may connect to the broker dashboard using the account number and user password to change the password or manage the member profile .

At block member profiles are illustrated the member profiles comprising user attributes that may include a plurality of affiliations and a plurality of attributes about the user harvested from a plurality of data providers .

At block device profiles registered and optionally shared by the user from the respective device are stored in the broker repository .

At block the registered device profile comprises of at least the device identifiers device AIN and the device pre shared key PSK .

At block service profiles registered by the user from a device and stored in the broker repository are illustrated. At block the passwords in the service profiles are encrypted at the device using the device watermark and the user s SAC that is only known to the user .

In one exemplary embodiment of the disclosed system the member profiles device profiles and service profiles are further encrypted by the broker using the hardware key and respectively of the broker server .

In another exemplary embodiment of the disclosed system the group account manager and registered users may login through a self service management portal at the broker dashboard to view edit or delete member device and service profiles set or change the password or UIC generate activity reports and configure notifications based on role based administration controls.

Referring to the disclosed system comprises of the user the device the service the broker and the data providers .

All communications between the device agent the service agent the broker agent and between the broker service and the data providers are performed over secure and encrypted transport protocols e.g. Transmission Control Protocol TCP User Datagram Protocol UDP Message Bus Intents Push Notifications etc. and APIs e.g. Representational State Transfer REST Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP etc. . The data exchanges occur in structured and semi structured data formats e.g. Comma Separated Values CSV Tab Separated Values TSV Excel JavaScript Object Notation or JSON Extensible Markup Language or XML etc. .

The device further comprises of the device agent and the client application . The device agent registers or deregisters the device with the broker agent as initiated by the user through user controls . The client application interfaces locally with the device agent on the device . At block the client application communicates using REST APIs for messaging with the broker agent . At block the client application communicates with the service accessed by the user .

The server may be any type of server such as for example a web server an application server a database server a proxy server a gateway server or a network device.

The service hosted on the server includes a service agent plugin. At block the service agent communicates with the broker agent for service registration and token verification.

The broker hosted on the broker server further comprises the broker service and the broker agent . At block the broker service connects to a plurality of data providers to query and retrieve user profiles comprising of user attributes and or affiliations.

The broker agent interfaces with the broker service the broker repository the broker dashboard the client application and the service agent . At block the broker agent initiates a query to retrieve a user profile from the data providers . At block operations to read get or write set member device and service profiles are performed. At block the broker agent responds to directed queries by the broker dashboard for administration management and configuration of groups and profiles i.e. member device and service .

The broker dashboard hosted on a management server provides the console for administration of the disclosed system group account management and member self service portals.

The service provider represents the entity e.g. organization service vendor providing the service hosted on the server .

Referring to user nodes U organization nodes O and profile nodes Pare illustrated. Links to annotate attributes between user nodes between a user node and an organization node between a user node and a profile node and an organization node and a profile node and between organization nodes are illustrated.

Referring to block illustrates user organization and profile nodes affiliation relationships and property keys to build and traverse a directed graph.

Referring to at block a list of registered users is built. At block the graph database is populated by querying attributes from the respective data sources providers for each user in the list. At block a directed graph is built by adding creating or updating user profile and organization vertices and inter vertex edges based on the received attributes for all users in the list. For each user in the list the flowchart illustrated in is executed as discussed below. At block iteration at the first user vertex in the list is begun. At block the directed subgraph for the user vertex is retrieved and a list of components between the user and other users organizations and profile nodes is built. At block the list of components is traversed for the user by building a component subgraph to calculate component scores and build a list of affiliation attributes by component for the user. For each component in the list the flowchart in is executed as discussed below. At block the affiliation score is calculated for the user based on the calculated component scores and fraction coefficients. At block the next user vertex is selected to repeat execution from block until the end of the list of user vertices.

Referring to at block the user vertex is added created or updated . At block a list of attributes is built based on the received attributes for the user starting at the first attribute in the list. At block a profile vertex for the user is added created or updated . At block edge and attributes between user and profile vertices are added created or updated . At block an organization vertex is added created or updated . At block a profile vertex for the organization is added created or updated . At block edge and attributes between organization and profile vertices are added created or updated . At block edge and attributes between user and organization vertices are added created or updated . At block edge and attributes between user and user vertices are added created or updated . At block edge and attributes between organization and organization vertices are added created or updated . At block the next attribute is selected to repeat execution from block until the end of the list of attributes.

Referring to for the first component at block the component subgraph is built. At block a list of attributes mapped to the component is built. At block for each attribute edge the impact score is calculated based on the score calculus for the attribute. At block the aggregate component score and list of affiliation attributes are calculated for the component. At block the next component is selected to repeat execution from block until the end of the list of components.

Referring to queries on a directed graph database are illustrated to build subgraphs subset graphs based on a match criteria.

At block a subgraph of a user and a profile node and a corresponding edge is illustrated based on a query 

At block a subgraph of an organization and a profile node and a corresponding edge is illustrated based on a query 

At step of the method the user registers with the broker agent to create a password and a user identification code UIC for the user linked to the account number associated with a group of users.

At step the method can include registering by the user at a device with the broker agent the device to create a device profile comprising of at least the received unique device identifiers required to generate a device watermark a device pre shared key PSK and a device AIN. The device PSK and device AIN are generated for the device by the broker agent and transmitted to the device agent over a secure channel during device registration.

At step the method can include registering by the user a plurality of services with the broker agent using service profiles wherein a service profile comprises of a service principal name SPN a username associated with the SPN a password and a device AIN and where the password is encrypted at the device using the device watermark and the user s SAC.

At step the method can include storing by the broker agent the registered user device and service profiles in a broker repository.

At step the method can include accessing by the user at the device a service wherein the device agent is executing on the device and the service agent is executing on the accessed service.

At step the method can include clicking by the user on a service icon displayed by the client application on the user s device via the service agent of the accessed service to provide consent for identity recognition.

At step the method can include prompting by the client application to receive the user s SAC from the user.

At step the method can include generating by the device agent for the client application a user token request containing the device AIN the account number a timestamp a digital signature generated using the device watermark and the timestamp the service principal name SPN the username associated with the SPN and optionally a received digitally signed service identifier via the service agent.

At step the method can include sending the generated user token request by the device agent to the broker agent.

At step the method can include processing the received user token request by the broker agent to generate a one time user token linked to the accessed service the one time user token comprising the encrypted password or a pre authentication token issued for the user by the accessed service to the broker agent using the username and a secret key.

At step the method can include sending the generated one time user token by the broker agent to the device agent.

At step the method can include decrypting by the device agent at the device the encrypted password in the received one time user token using the device watermark and the user s SAC.

At step the method can include forwarding by the device agent the decrypted password or the pre authentication token with the one time user token via the client application to the service agent of the accessed service.

At step the method can include verifying by the service agent of the accessed service with the broker agent the received one time user token from the client application.

At step the method can include authenticating by the accessed service the user based on the received password or pre authentication token included with the verified one time user token.

At step the method can include notifying the user by the broker agent of successful and failed authentication attempts to access the service from the device.

At step of the method the user registers with the broker agent to create a password and a user identification code UIC for the user linked to the account number associated with a group of users.

At step the method can include registering by the user at a device with the broker agent the device to create a device profile comprising of at least the received unique device identifiers required to generate a device watermark a device pre shared key PSK and a device AIN. The device PSK and device AIN are generated for the device by the broker agent and transmitted to the device agent over a secure channel during device registration.

At step the method can include registering by the user a plurality of services with the broker agent using service profiles wherein a service profile comprises of a service principal name SPN a username associated with the SPN a password and a device AIN and where the password is encrypted at the device using the device watermark and the user s SAC.

At step the method can include storing by the broker agent the registered user device and service profiles in a broker repository.

At step the method can include accessing by the user at the device a service wherein the device agent is executing on the device and the service agent is executing on the accessed service.

At step the method can include clicking by the user on a service icon displayed by the client application on the user s device via the service agent of the accessed service to provide consent for identity affiliation.

At step the method can include prompting by the client application to receive the user s SAC or the user s UIC from the user.

At step the method can include generating by the device agent for the client application a user token request containing at least the device AIN the account number a timestamp a digital signature generated using the device watermark and the timestamp the service principal name the username associated with the SPN where the accessed service requires authentication or the user s UIC encrypted using the device pre shared key where the accessed service requires no authentication and a received digitally signed service identifier via the service agent.

At step the method can include sending the generated user token request by the device agent to the broker agent.

At step the method can include processing the received user token request by the broker agent to generate a one time user token linked to the accessed service the one time user token comprising the affiliation score component scores affiliation attributes and optionally the encrypted password or a pre authentication token issued for the user by the accessed service to the broker agent using the username and a secret key.

At step the method can include sending the generated one time user token by the broker agent to the device agent.

At step the method can include decrypting by the device agent at the device the encrypted password in the received one time user token using the device watermark and the user s SAC.

At step the method can include forwarding by the device agent the decrypted password or the pre authentication token with the one time user token via the client application to the service agent of the accessed service.

At step the method can include verifying by the service agent of the accessed service with the broker agent the received one time user token from the client application.

At step the method can include authenticating by the accessed service the user based on the received password or pre authentication token included with the verified one time user token.

At step the method can include notifying the user by the broker agent of successful and failed authentication attempts to access the service from the device.

At step the method can include personalization of content and services by the accessed service based on the received affiliation score component scores and affiliation attributes included with the verified one time user token.

In one exemplary embodiment of the disclosed system the service agent of the service provider may comprise a client side script rendered for example via a Java Server Page JSP or Active Server Page ASP to execute locally on the user s device for example as a web browser code object in a runtime environment container .

In another exemplary embodiment of the disclosed system the service agent of the service provider may comprise a server side code object servlet or class and a pre or post processor filter that executes on the server.

In one exemplary embodiment of the disclosed system the device agent may comprise an operating system OS platform specific service application and or taskbar dashboard control.

In one exemplary embodiment of the disclosed system the broker agent may be implemented as a web service or application.

Although exemplary embodiments have been described in terms of a computing device or instrumented platform it is contemplated that it may be implemented in software on microprocessors general purpose computers such as the computer system illustrated in . In various embodiments one or more of the functions of the various components may be implemented in software that controls a computing device such as computer system which is described below with reference to .

Aspects of the present invention shown in or any part s or function s thereof may be implemented using hardware software modules firmware non transitory computer readable media having instructions stored thereon or a combination thereof and may be implemented in one or more computer systems or other processing systems.

If programmable logic is used such logic may execute on a commercially available processing platform or a special purpose device. One of ordinary skill in the art may appreciate that embodiments of the disclosed subject matter can be practiced with various computer system configurations including multi core multiprocessor systems minicomputers mainframe computers computers linked or clustered with distributed functions as well as pervasive or miniature computers that may be embedded into virtually any device.

For instance at least one processor device and a memory may be used to implement the above described embodiments. A processor device may be a single processor a plurality of processors or combinations thereof. Processor devices may have one or more processor cores .

Various embodiments of the invention are described in terms of this example computer system . After reading this description it will become apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art how to implement the invention using other computer systems and or computer architectures. Although operations may be described as a sequential process some of the operations may in fact be performed in parallel concurrently and or in a distributed environment and with program code stored locally or remotely for access by single or multiprocessor machines. In addition in some embodiments the order of operations may be rearranged without departing from the spirit of the disclosed subject matter.

Processor device may be a special purpose or a general purpose processor device. As will be appreciated by persons skilled in the relevant art processor device may also be a single processor in a multi core multiprocessor system such system operating alone or in a cluster of computing devices operating in a cluster or server farm. Processor device is connected to a communication infrastructure for example a bus message queue network or multi core message passing scheme.

The computer system also includes a main memory for example random access memory RAM and may also include a secondary memory . Secondary memory may include for example a hard disk drive removable storage drive . Removable storage drive may comprise a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive a flash memory or the like.

The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage unit in a well known manner. Removable storage unit may comprise a floppy disk magnetic tape optical disk etc. which is read by and written to by removable storage drive . As will be appreciated by persons skilled in the relevant art removable storage unit includes a non transitory computer usable storage medium having stored therein computer software and or data.

In alternative implementations secondary memory may include other similar means for allowing computer programs or other instructions to be loaded into computer system . Such means may include for example a removable storage unit and an interface . Examples of such means may include a program cartridge and cartridge interface such as that found in video game devices a removable memory chip such as an EPROM or PROM and associated socket and other removable storage units and interfaces which allow software and data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to computer system .

The computer system may also include a communications interface . Communications interface allows software and data to be transferred between computer system and external devices. Communications interface may include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet card a communications port a PCMCIA slot and card or the like. Software and data transferred via communications interface may be in the form of signals which may be electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being received by communications interface . These signals may be provided to communications interface via a communications path . Communications path carries signals and may be implemented using wire or cable fiber optics a phone line a cellular phone link an RF link or other communications channels.

The computer system may also include a computer display and a display interface . According to embodiments the display used to display the GUIs and dashboards shown in B and described above may be the computer display and the console interface may be display interface .

In this document the terms computer program medium non transitory computer readable medium and computer usable medium are used to generally refer to media such as removable storage unit removable storage unit and a hard disk installed in hard disk drive . Signals carried over communications path can also embody the logic described herein. Computer program medium and computer usable medium can also refer to memories such as main memory and secondary memory which can be memory semiconductors e.g. DRAMs etc. . These computer program products are means for providing software to computer system .

Computer programs also called computer control logic are stored in main memory and or secondary memory . Computer programs may also be received via communications interface . Such computer programs when executed enable computer system to implement the present invention as discussed herein. In particular the computer programs when executed enable processor device to implement the processes of the present invention such as the stages in the methods illustrated by the flowcharts in and discussed above. Accordingly such computer programs represent controllers of the computer system . Where the invention is implemented using software the software may be stored in a computer program product and loaded into computer system using removable storage drive interface and hard disk drive or communications interface .

Embodiments of the invention also may be directed to computer program products comprising software stored on any computer useable medium. Such software when executed in one or more data processing device causes a data processing device s to operate as described herein. Embodiments of the invention employ any computer useable or readable medium. Examples of computer useable mediums include but are not limited to primary storage devices e.g. any type of random access memory secondary storage devices e.g. hard drives floppy disks CD ROMS ZIP disks tapes magnetic storage devices and optical storage devices MEMS nanotechnological storage device etc. and communication mediums e.g. wired and wireless communications networks local area networks wide area networks intranets etc. .

In certain exemplary embodiments of the disclosed system a group account number may be assigned to a business unit of an enterprise for role based controls for members of the group.

In an alternate embodiment of the disclosed system the service sign in ceremony may be accomplished without requiring a service agent by the service provider through a plugin loaded by the client application e.g. web browser wherein the accessed service is qualified based on a server certificate and the encrypted password retrieved from the user token is used by the client application plugin to complete the authentication ceremony. Accordingly the digitally signed service identifier in the user token request is optional.

It is to be appreciated that the Detailed Description section and not the Summary and Abstract sections is intended to be used to interpret the claims. The Summary and Abstract sections may set forth one or more but not all exemplary embodiments of the present invention as contemplated by the inventor s and thus are not intended to limit the present invention and the appended claims in any way.

Embodiments of the present invention have been described above with the aid of functional building blocks illustrating the implementation of specified functions and relationships thereof. The boundaries of these functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternate boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the invention that others can by applying knowledge within the skill of the art readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without undue experimentation without departing from the general concept of the present invention. Therefore such adaptations and modifications are intended to be within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments based on the teaching and guidance presented herein. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation such that the terminology or phraseology of the present specification is to be interpreted by the skilled artisan in light of the teachings and guidance.

Although the invention is illustrated and described herein with reference to specific embodiments the invention is not intended to be limited to the details shown. Rather various modifications may be made in the details within the scope and range equivalents of the claims and without departing from the invention.

