---

title: System and method for enhanced customer experience workflow
abstract: A system for enhanced customer experience workflows, comprising a workflow integration server configured to receive at least a plurality of customer interaction information, and configured to produce at least a plurality of interaction workflow events based at least in part on at least a portion of the customer interaction information, and configured to transmit at least a portion of the interaction workflow events via a network; wherein at least a portion of the customer interaction information is received from a customer interaction system, and at least a portion of the interaction workflow events are produced automatically, and at least a portion of the customer interaction information is received while an interaction is in progress, and at least a portion of the workflow events are produced and transmitted while the interaction is in progress.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09582779&OS=09582779&RS=09582779
owner: Virtual Hold Technology, LLC
number: 09582779
owner_city: Akron
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160918
---
This application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 62 310 775 titled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ENHANCED CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE WORKFLOW and filed on Mar. 20 2016 the entire specification of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The disclosure relates to the field of customer interaction and more particularly to the field of automating enhanced workflows based on customer interaction.

In customer interaction management it is common for businesses to wish to implement analysis and influencing operations for various use cases expediting customer requests and identifying metrics and areas of improvement through operational analysis. However various approaches in the art require a great deal of custom configuration resulting in a high cost to implement and tend to be very customer specific causing migration issues and additional configuration needs.

What is needed is a means to lower the cost to provide viable use case analysis and influencing from a given stream of events and to operate on those events to produce non customer specific workflows and analysis thereof to optimize operations while improving customer experience.

Accordingly the inventor has conceived and reduced to practice in a preferred embodiment of the invention a system and method for enhanced customer experience workflows that improves customer experience through automated real time workflow triggering based on interactions and context.

According to a preferred embodiment of the invention a system for enhanced customer experience workflows comprising a workflow integration server comprising at least a plurality of programming instructions stored in a memory and operating on a processor of a network connected computing device and configured to receive at least a plurality of customer interaction information and configured to produce at least a plurality of interaction workflow events based at least in part on at least a portion of the customer interaction information and configured to transmit at least a portion of the interaction workflow events via a network wherein at least a portion of the customer interaction information is received from a customer interaction system and at least a portion of the interaction workflow events are produced automatically and at least a portion of the customer interaction information is received while an interaction is in progress and at least a portion of the workflow events are produced and transmitted while the interaction is in progress is disclosed.

According to another preferred embodiment of the invention a method for enhanced customer experience workflows comprising the steps of receiving at a workflow integration server comprising at least a plurality of programming instructions stored in a memory and operating on a processor of a network connected computing device and configured to receive at least a plurality of customer interaction information and configured to produce at least a plurality of interaction workflow events based at least in part on at least a portion of the customer interaction information and configured to transmit at least a portion of the interaction workflow events via a network a plurality of customer interaction information producing a plurality of interaction workflow events based at least in part on at least a portion of the customer interaction information and transmitting at least a portion of the interaction workflow events via a network is disclosed.

The inventor has conceived and reduced to practice in a preferred embodiment of the invention a system and method for enhanced customer experience workflows that improves customer experience through automated real time workflow triggering based on interactions and context.

One or more different inventions may be described in the present application. Further for one or more of the inventions described herein numerous alternative embodiments may be described it should be appreciated that these are presented for illustrative purposes only and are not limiting of the inventions contained herein or the claims presented herein in any way. One or more of the inventions may be widely applicable to numerous embodiments as may be readily apparent from the disclosure. In general embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice one or more of the inventions and it should be appreciated that other embodiments may be utilized and that structural logical software electrical and other changes may be made without departing from the scope of the particular inventions. Accordingly one skilled in the art will recognize that one or more of the inventions may be practiced with various modifications and alterations. Particular features of one or more of the inventions described herein may be described with reference to one or more particular embodiments or figures that form a part of the present disclosure and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments of one or more of the inventions. It should be appreciated however that such features are not limited to usage in the one or more particular embodiments or figures with reference to which they are described. The present disclosure is neither a literal description of all embodiments of one or more of the inventions nor a listing of features of one or more of the inventions that must be present in all embodiments.

Headings of sections provided in this patent application and the title of this patent application are for convenience only and are not to be taken as limiting the disclosure in any way.

Devices that are in communication with each other need not be in continuous communication with each other unless expressly specified otherwise. In addition devices that are in communication with each other may communicate directly or indirectly through one or more communication means or intermediaries logical or physical.

A description of an embodiment with several components in communication with each other does not imply that all such components are required. To the contrary a variety of optional components may be described to illustrate a wide variety of possible embodiments of one or more of the inventions and in order to more fully illustrate one or more aspects of the inventions. Similarly although process steps method steps algorithms or the like may be described in a sequential order such processes methods and algorithms may generally be configured to work in alternate orders unless specifically stated to the contrary. In other words any sequence or order of steps that may be described in this patent application does not in and of itself indicate a requirement that the steps be performed in that order. The steps of described processes may be performed in any order practical. Further some steps may be performed simultaneously despite being described or implied as occurring non simultaneously e.g. because one step is described after the other step . Moreover the illustration of a process by its depiction in a drawing does not imply that the illustrated process is exclusive of other variations and modifications thereto does not imply that the illustrated process or any of its steps are necessary to one or more of the invention s and does not imply that the illustrated process is preferred. Also steps are generally described once per embodiment but this does not mean they must occur once or that they may only occur once each time a process method or algorithm is carried out or executed. Some steps may be omitted in some embodiments or some occurrences or some steps may be executed more than once in a given embodiment or occurrence.

When a single device or article is described herein it will be readily apparent that more than one device or article may be used in place of a single device or article. Similarly where more than one device or article is described herein it will be readily apparent that a single device or article may be used in place of the more than one device or article.

The functionality or the features of a device may be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices that are not explicitly described as having such functionality or features. Thus other embodiments of one or more of the inventions need not include the device itself.

Techniques and mechanisms described or referenced herein will sometimes be described in singular form for clarity. However it should be appreciated that particular embodiments may include multiple iterations of a technique or multiple instantiations of a mechanism unless noted otherwise. Process descriptions or blocks in figures should be understood as representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. Alternate implementations are included within the scope of embodiments of the present invention in which for example functions may be executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those having ordinary skill in the art.

Generally the techniques disclosed herein may be implemented on hardware or a combination of software and hardware. For example they may be implemented in an operating system kernel in a separate user process in a library package bound into network applications on a specially constructed machine on an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or on a network interface card.

Software hardware hybrid implementations of at least some of the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented on a programmable network resident machine which should be understood to include intermittently connected network aware machines selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in memory. Such network devices may have multiple network interfaces that may be configured or designed to utilize different types of network communication protocols. A general architecture for some of these machines may be described herein in order to illustrate one or more exemplary means by which a given unit of functionality may be implemented. According to specific embodiments at least some of the features or functionalities of the various embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented on one or more general purpose computers associated with one or more networks such as for example an end user computer system a client computer a network server or other server system a mobile computing device e.g. tablet computing device mobile phone smartphone smart watch laptop or other appropriate computing device a consumer electronic device a music player or any other suitable electronic device router switch or other suitable device or any combination thereof. In at least some embodiments at least some of the features or functionalities of the various embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented in one or more virtualized computing environments e.g. network computing clouds virtual machines hosted on one or more physical computing machines or other appropriate virtual environments .

Referring now to there is shown a block diagram depicting an exemplary computing device suitable for implementing at least a portion of the features or functionalities disclosed herein. Computing device may be for example any one of the computing machines listed in the previous paragraph or indeed any other electronic device capable of executing software or hardware based instructions according to one or more programs stored in memory. Computing device may be configured to communicate with a plurality of other computing devices such as clients or servers over communications networks such as a wide area network a metropolitan area network a local area network a wireless network the Internet or any other network using known protocols for such communication whether wireless or wired.

In one embodiment computing device includes one or more central processing units CPU one or more interfaces and one or more busses such as a peripheral component interconnect PCI bus . When acting under the control of appropriate software or firmware CPU may be responsible for implementing specific functions associated with the functions of a specifically configured computing device or machine. For example in at least one embodiment a computing device may be configured or designed to function as a server system utilizing CPU local memory and or remote memory and interface s . In at least one embodiment CPU may be caused to perform one or more of the different types of functions and or operations under the control of software modules or components which for example may include an operating system and any appropriate applications software drivers and the like.

CPU may include one or more processors such as for example a processor from one of the Intel ARM Qualcomm and AMD families of microprocessors. In some embodiments processors may include specially designed hardware such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs electrically erasable programmable read only memories EEPROMs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs and so forth for controlling operations of computing device . In a specific embodiment a local memory such as non volatile random access memory RAM and or read only memory ROM including for example one or more levels of cached memory may also form part of CPU . However there are many different ways in which memory may be coupled to system . Memory may be used for a variety of purposes such as for example caching and or storing data programming instructions and the like. It should be further appreciated that CPU may be one of a variety of system on a chip SOC type hardware that may include additional hardware such as memory or graphics processing chips such as a Qualcomm SNAPDRAGON or Samsung EXYNOS CPU as are becoming increasingly common in the art such as for use in mobile devices or integrated devices.

As used herein the term processor is not limited merely to those integrated circuits referred to in the art as a processor a mobile processor or a microprocessor but broadly refers to a microcontroller a microcomputer a programmable logic controller an application specific integrated circuit and any other programmable circuit.

In one embodiment interfaces are provided as network interface cards NICs . Generally NICs control the sending and receiving of data packets over a computer network other types of interfaces may for example support other peripherals used with computing device . Among the interfaces that may be provided are Ethernet interfaces frame relay interfaces cable interfaces DSL interfaces token ring interfaces graphics interfaces and the like. In addition various types of interfaces may be provided such as for example universal serial bus USB Serial Ethernet FIREWIRE THUNDERBOLT PCI parallel radio frequency RF BLUETOOTH near field communications e.g. using near field magnetics 802.11 WiFi frame relay TCP IP ISDN fast Ethernet interfaces Gigabit Ethernet interfaces Serial ATA SATA or external SATA ESATA interfaces high definition multimedia interface HDMI digital visual interface DVI analog or digital audio interfaces asynchronous transfer mode ATM interfaces high speed serial interface HSSI interfaces Point of sale POS interfaces fiber data distributed interfaces FDDIs and the like. Generally such interfaces may include physical ports appropriate for communication with appropriate media. In some cases they may also include an independent processor such as a dedicated audio or video processor as is common in the art for high fidelity A V hardware interfaces and in some instances volatile and or non volatile memory e.g. RAM .

Although the system shown in illustrates one specific architecture for a computing device for implementing one or more of the inventions described herein it is by no means the only device architecture on which at least a portion of the features and techniques described herein may be implemented. For example architectures having one or any number of processors may be used and such processors may be present in a single device or distributed among any number of devices. In one embodiment a single processor handles communications as well as routing computations while in other embodiments a separate dedicated communications processor may be provided. In various embodiments different types of features or functionalities may be implemented in a system according to the invention that includes a client device such as a tablet device smartphone smart watch or other wearable computing device running client software and server systems such as a server system described in more detail below .

Regardless of network device configuration the system of the present invention may employ one or more memories or memory modules such as for example remote memory block and local memory configured to store data program instructions for the general purpose network operations or other information relating to the functionality of the embodiments described herein or any combinations of the above . Program instructions may control execution of or comprise an operating system and or one or more applications for example. Memory or memories may also be configured to store data structures configuration data encryption data historical system operations information or any other specific or generic non program information described herein.

Because such information and program instructions may be employed to implement one or more systems or methods described herein at least some network device embodiments may include nontransitory machine readable storage media which for example may be configured or designed to store program instructions state information and the like for performing various operations described herein. Examples of such nontransitory machine readable storage media include but are not limited to magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROM disks magneto optical media such as optical disks and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and perform program instructions such as read only memory devices ROM flash memory as is common in mobile devices and integrated systems solid state drives SSD and hybrid SSD storage drives that may combine physical components of solid state and hard disk drives in a single hardware device as are becoming increasingly common in the art with regard to personal computers memristor memory random access memory RAM and the like. It should be appreciated that such storage means may be integral and non removable such as RAM hardware modules that may be soldered onto a motherboard or otherwise integrated into an electronic device or they may be removable such as swappable flash memory modules such as thumb drives or other removable media designed for rapidly exchanging physical storage devices hot swappable hard disk drives or solid state drives removable optical storage discs or other such removable media and that such integral and removable storage media may be utilized interchangeably. Examples of program instructions include both object code such as may be produced by a compiler machine code such as may be produced by an assembler or a linker byte code such as may be generated by for example a Java compiler and may be executed using a Java virtual machine or equivalent or files containing higher level code that may be executed by the computer using an interpreter for example scripts written in Python Perl Ruby Groovy or any other scripting language .

In some embodiments systems according to the present invention may be implemented on a standalone computing system. Referring now to there is shown a block diagram depicting a typical exemplary architecture of one or more embodiments or components thereof on a standalone computing system. Computing device includes processors that may run software that carry out one or more functions or applications of embodiments of the invention such as for example a client application . Processors may carry out computing instructions under control of an operating system such as for example a version of Microsoft s WINDOWS operating system Apple s Mac OS X or iOS operating systems some variety of the Linux operating system Google s ANDROID operating system or the like. In many cases one or more shared services may be operable in system and may be useful for providing common services to client applications . Services may for example be WINDOWS services user space common services in a Linux environment or any other type of common service architecture used with operating system . Input devices may be of any type suitable for receiving user input including for example a keyboard touchscreen microphone for example for voice input mouse touchpad trackball or any combination thereof. Output devices may be of any type suitable for providing output to one or more users whether remote or local to system and may include for example one or more screens for visual output speakers printers or any combination thereof. Memory may be random access memory having any structure and architecture known in the art for use by processors for example to run software. Storage devices may be any magnetic optical mechanical memristor or electrical storage device for storage of data in digital form such as those described above referring to . Examples of storage devices include flash memory magnetic hard drive CD ROM and or the like.

In some embodiments systems of the present invention may be implemented on a distributed computing network such as one having any number of clients and or servers. Referring now to there is shown a block diagram depicting an exemplary architecture for implementing at least a portion of a system according to an embodiment of the invention on a distributed computing network. According to the embodiment any number of clients may be provided. Each client may run software for implementing client side portions of the present invention clients may comprise a system such as that illustrated in . In addition any number of servers may be provided for handling requests received from one or more clients . Clients and servers may communicate with one another via one or more electronic networks which may be in various embodiments any of the Internet a wide area network a mobile telephony network such as CDMA or GSM cellular networks a wireless network such as WiFi Wimax LTE and so forth or a local area network or indeed any network topology known in the art the invention does not prefer any one network topology over any other . Networks may be implemented using any known network protocols including for example wired and or wireless protocols.

In addition in some embodiments servers may call external services when needed to obtain additional information or to refer to additional data concerning a particular call. Communications with external services may take place for example via one or more networks . In various embodiments external services may comprise web enabled services or functionality related to or installed on the hardware device itself. For example in an embodiment where client applications are implemented on a smartphone smart watch or other electronic device client applications may obtain information stored in a server system in the cloud or on an external service deployed on one or more of a particular enterprise s or user s premises.

In some embodiments of the invention clients or servers or both may make use of one or more specialized services or appliances that may be deployed locally or remotely across one or more networks . For example one or more databases may be used or referred to by one or more embodiments of the invention. It should be understood by one having ordinary skill in the art that databases may be arranged in a wide variety of architectures and using a wide variety of data access and manipulation means. For example in various embodiments one or more databases may comprise a relational database system using a structured query language SQL while others may comprise an alternative data storage technology such as those referred to in the art as NoSQL for example Hadoop Cassandra Google BigTable and so forth and NewSQL for example MySQL Cluster Infobright TokuDB and so forth etc. In some embodiments variant database architectures such as column oriented databases in memory databases clustered databases distributed databases or even flat file data repositories may be used according to the invention. It will be appreciated by one having ordinary skill in the art that any combination of known or future database technologies may be used as appropriate unless a specific database technology or a specific arrangement of components is specified for a particular embodiment herein. Moreover it should be appreciated that the term database as used herein may refer to a physical database machine a cluster of machines acting as a single database system or a logical database within an overall database management system. Unless a specific meaning is specified for a given use of the term database it should be construed to mean any of these senses of the word all of which are understood as a plain meaning of the term database by those having ordinary skill in the art.

Similarly most embodiments of the invention may make use of one or more security systems and configuration systems . Security and configuration management are common information technology IT and web functions and some amount of each are generally associated with any IT or web systems. It should be understood by one having ordinary skill in the art that any configuration or security subsystems known in the art now or in the future may be used in conjunction with embodiments of the invention without limitation unless a specific security or configuration system or approach is specifically required by the description of any specific embodiment.

In various embodiments functionality for implementing systems or methods of the present invention may be distributed among any number of client and or server components. For example various software modules may be implemented for performing various functions in connection with the present invention and such modules may be variously implemented to run on server and or client components.

Workflow integration server may be connected to a customer relations management CRM system that may store and provide customer related information such as account details contact information previous interaction records or other various customer information that may be relevant to a particular interaction or to a particular customer within an interaction. Workflow integration server may also provide data to CRM system for example to update customer information directly based on interaction information for example during the processing of a workflow event as described below referring to enabling efficient integration with CRM resources without requiring manual operation by an agent or other user. Workflow integration server may also communicate with a plurality of back office systems such as automated or non interactive systems operated by a contact center or enterprise for execution of tasks or providing normal function such as for example a credit check service used by a financial institution to process credit checks for customers or a billing system used by an enterprise to produce and operate on customer billing details such as for the generation of recurring charges or production of invoices and enterprise systems for example specialized enterprise systems such as systems to aid in the contextual determination of a next right action or a system to determine the semantic meaning of an event and the like.

In this manner workflow integration server may be integrated with a number of enterprise systems to facilitate access to internal resources such as CRM and back office systems while also being integrated with customer interaction systems to receive interaction information or to provide information for use during an interaction. This integration may then be used to drive real time workflow events during an interaction in progress for example to automatically perform operational steps using back office systems once a need is recognized during an interaction. For example if a customer is exploring credit checking options via an IVR information may be requested from or provided to a credit checking service automatically without requiring direct action from an agent or other enterprise user and without requiring a customer to locate and understand a self service option to perform the action on their own.

According to the embodiment a customer experience workflow may be used to analyze and act upon context and customer interactions in real time enhancing customer experience by making their interactions more immediately relevant and efficient as well as improving results through automated handling to ensure customer requests are responded to in the optimal manner for example eliminating the risk of miscommunication when a customer interacts with a business representative who must manually fulfill their request . Workflows may utilize event based triggers to execute actions optionally using single or multiple events to qualify as a start condition for example triggering a particular action when a customer explores self service options for technical support but only if this is a repeat caller i.e. not the first time they ve sought assistance with the same issue . Triggers may optionally be time based such as triggering an event only after a certain timeframe has passed or only if an interaction is still within a specified window and workflows may be halted or abandoned based on time based criteria or other conditions or events . Workflows may be generally focused on customer actions prompting automated responses to customer activities or requests in a reactive mode of operation that focuses on customer oriented issue resolution and enhancing an overall customer experience. During workflow execution and handling a variety of metrics may be produced for example through logging functions of various system components used while handling a particular workflow and workflows may optionally be long running or unrelated to a specific interaction as needed such as a workflow that is handled while a customer is not in an interaction to process information and fulfill requests from previous interactions or to initiate an outbound interaction to reach a customer for resolution such as a follow up to a prior tech support request that was unresolved at the time of the interaction . In some embodiments a plurality of workflows may interact with each other. For example one or more events may trigger new workflows to act as event semaphores for example to allow execution to continue in other workflows or alternatively to stop other workflows. An example of this function may be during a banking workflow for a customer applying for a new line of credit. As part of a credit application workflow an event may trigger a separate child workflow for a credit check. Another event may trigger a child workflow for an account history examination with the financial institution. These workflows may complete and produce output information that is then incorporated into the initial credit application workflow which may optionally either require triggered workflows to complete before being able to conclude itself or may conclude separately so that each workflow produces a separate result all of which may be further utilized after completion for example reviewed by a bank manager .

According to the embodiment a messaging framework may be used to provide communication capabilities across different functional components for example using standardized messaging protocols or programming functions to provide internal integration of system resources within a workflow integration server .

A data integration engine may operate for example an application programming interface API manager to provide a plurality of APIs for use in integrating enterprise systems and workflow handling components. For example an event submission API may be used to integrate a variety of enterprise systems so that events may be provided to them for further handling such as to direct the operation of an enterprise system to carry out specified tasks. APIs may also be used to create dynamic contextual data and access dynamic or static rules based data from various resources during operation. Data integration engine may operate an API endpoint to receive workflow events such as triggers for example when particular actions are performed or keywords are entered during an interaction or any other interaction event that may be used to trigger workflow actions for example via a standardized HTTP based interface for ease of integration with a variety of existing resources. Configuration may be minimized through the use of standard protocols and adaptive operation so that resources may be quickly integrated without downtime or risking operation and the use of such standardized rapidly deployable integration also enhances scalability for large arrangements with numerous resources and system robustness through consistent configuration and operation.

A business logic integration engine may further comprise for example a business function manager that may be used to enable external systems to execute business logic decisions within a workflow integration server and to enable external systems to act on workflow results and may utilize a plurality of RESTful APIs to facilitate integration with various business functions and systems for example using a standardized API for ease of integration with existing products or services . Additionally business logic integration may be used to provide enhanced scalability and redundancy by operating multiple instances of business functions and distributing tasks or requests.

An administration manager may be used to provide data access and system functional requests to an administrator interface such as a web based interface configured to allow an administrator user to view and interact with system information. For example a user may be able to create lookup tables for database requests modify users such as to add users with specified privileges to aid in administration modify workflow configuration such as to modify event types or triggering parameters or to modify integration configuration such as to add or remove connected services or to modify their operation such as changing how a particular metric is recorded or a particular task is executed .

A plurality of data access services may include for example a context store manager to manage context based event storage for example events that are only relevant to certain workflows based on the context of a customer interaction as well as contextual operations such as customer identification management and event republishing for example propagating an event to other components for further handling or repeated execution according to interaction context an object state manager that may store and manage stateful customer related data such as for example a troubleshooting ticket that may require further handling and for which state tracking may be important or a data store manager that may expose general low level data to system components such as to integrate with enterprise data stores at a lower level than would be feasible for a human user for example to directly manipulate database tables or perform administrative system operations . A context store manager may be used to handle a high volume and variety of data that may be stored in a distributed fashion across a number of database nodes to provide data resiliency and increase performance through parallel operation. Such an arrangement may be optimized for querying and modifying unstructured data which is particularly suitable to such operation according to the embodiment due to the quantity and varied nature of integrated resources that may be utilized. Operation may be configuration free using JSON or other standardized means to store context in its native format further increasing robustness of operation by eliminating reliance on proprietary or modified protocols that may introduce compatibility issues or reliability concerns as they age whereas standardized protocols may have industry support throughout their operational life .

A business logic execution manager may further comprise for example a workflow listener that listens for events such as keywords or activities during a customer interaction that may be used to trigger workflow events a workflow manager that may execute workflow events for example by performing workflow event handling and directing the operation of various integrated components or services to perform requested actions or provide information or providing information or further workflow events to external enterprise systems for handling or a variety of custom business functions that may be used to integrate specific functions or capabilities of a particular enterprise or arrangement such as proprietary internal products or services .

A plurality of system services may include for example a log manager that may be used to provide centralized logging during operation job scheduler that may schedule operations for automated execution or a process manager that may manage internal processes during operation such as to start stop restart or audit processes or their results.

A plurality of reporting services may include for example a metrics manager that enables workflows and enterprise functions to generate and record metrics for example to log system performance or to quantify interaction or workflow details for easier and more effective tracking scoring or auditing a metrics aggregator that provides fixed aggregation periods for example to periodically collate metricized data or a variety of dashboards to provide data for analysis by a human user or to receive interaction from a user for example to configure metric collection or presentation .

In a next step workflow integration server may listen for reporting information such as logs from external services that were utilized as part of a workflow for example if an external credit check service was directed to run a check for a customer the workflow integration server may listen for results of the credit check to come back . Received reporting information may then be compiled into a workflow results report for example including detailed information on workflow execution custom interaction details that were utilized or observed and the results of any workflow actions such as the results of a credit check or a confirmation of whether or not a customer s account was found or other such result information . In a final step a report may be provided as output for reference for example via a reporting interface for review by a human user such as via a web accessible interface viewable using a browser application or for storage in a database for future reference.

The skilled person will be aware of a range of possible modifications of the various embodiments described above. Accordingly the present invention is defined by the claims and their equivalents.

