---

title: Smart line routing using wireless beacons
abstract: There are provided systems and methods for smart line routing using wireless beacons. A merchant may set up a wireless beacon throughout a storefront or retail location for the merchant. The beacons may connect to a user's device and provide check-in services to the user. Based on the connections between the user's device and the wireless beacons, information about the user's behavior in the merchant location may be determined. The information may correspond to items/services the user may purchase and an amount of items/services the user may purchase. Using this information and a payment instrument the user utilizes to complete a transaction for the items/services, and expected time for the user to complete a checkout and payment to the merchant may be determined. The expected time can be used to direct the user to a checkout line that minimizes a wait time for each line.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09639868&OS=09639868&RS=09639868
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09639868
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160104
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 340 069 filed Jul. 24 2014 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present application generally relates to smart line routing using wireless beacons and more specifically to determining a user s path through a merchant location using wireless beacons to make decisions on an expected checkout time for the user and subsequent users.

At various merchant locations such as a merchant s retail store a user may browse items and or services for sale from the merchant and select various items services for purchase from the merchant. These items services may be grouped in areas together such as a produce or bakery of a shopping market or a computers or televisions section of an electronics store. Based on the amount of items services purchased the user may spend a different amount of time completing a checkout and payment. For example purchasing one bag of apples may be very quick however purchasing enough vegetables meat condiments and hamburger buns for a barbeque may take a considerably larger amount of time. Moreover certain items services may take longer to purchase by nature of the type of item service. While purchasing soft drinks for a barbeque may be accomplished quickly it may take longer to purchase alcohol for a party due to checking identification to verify age completing a more expensive purchase or retrieving items that are under security precautions. Moreover payment methods may cause users to spend different amounts of time completing a payment. However merchants merely guide users to checkout lines without determining how long the user may take to checkout. Thus these checkout lines may not be optimized to increase user throughput and create a better user experience.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

Provided are methods that provide smart line routing using wireless beacons. Systems suitable for practicing methods of the present disclosure are also provided.

Various locations may provide short range wireless communications with a device such as through beacons using one or more of Bluetooth Low Energy BLE communication protocol LTE Direct communication protocol WiFi communication protocol etc. These beacons may be set up at a location and communicate with devices to alert users of check in services through their device. The beacons may provide additional functionality such as establishing a connection with a server entity to complete transactions including payment services. The beacons may communicate with the devices directly including information stored in the beacons. The beacons may also communicate with a device attached to or in communication with the beacon such as a device of a merchant.

A merchant may offer smart line routing using the aforementioned wireless beacons at a merchant location. A merchant location may correspond to a retail store a shopping market a mall location or other physical location where a user such as a consumer or purchaser may visit to purchase items. Owners of the merchant locations may utilize short range wireless beacons at the merchant location to communicate with a device of the user. For example the short range wireless beacons may be established throughout the merchant location such as sub locations having a type or category of items to purchase. The beacons may employ BLE LTE Direct WiFi or other communications that emit a signal receivable by the user s device. The communication may include an identifier for the beacon the user the merchant and or a payment provider that provides payment services between the user and the merchant.

A user may set up a user device to passively monitor for BLE LTE Direct WiFi or other communication signals from the beacon. When the user device detects the signal and verifies the one or more identifiers both the user device and the beacon may ramp up in power and establish a connection where the connection may further enable the user device to communicate with the merchant. The beacon may also provide information to a merchant device for the merchant such as an amount of time the user device stays connected to the beacon actions the user takes with the user device while connected to the beacon and other tracking information. The beacon may be connected to a networked device at the merchant location or the beacon may include network functionality to communicate with other devices and or servers. Thus the beacon enables the user device to establish a connection communicate check in information e.g. an identifier for the user and or initiate a check in with the merchant. The check in may be completed automatically when the user device is in range of the beacon or may be completed after prompting the user to check in when the user device is in range of the beacon.

Once the merchant establishes the wireless beacons throughout the merchant location the merchant may register the location for each of the wireless beacons. As previously discussed a location for a wireless beacon may correspond to a sub location within the merchant location. For example a sub location in a shopping market may correspond to a bakery section a deli section a produce section or other section of the market. In another example a sub location of an electronics store may correspond to a television section a gaming section a computing section etc. Thus a sub location may identify a part of the merchant location. Based on the items and or services available in the sub location an expected purchasable item service for the user may be determined if the user visits the section and their user device connects to the wireless beacon for the section. For example if the user visits a bakery section of a market and their user device connects to the wireless beacon in the section it may be determined that the user is purchasing baked goods. A sub location may be further subdivided such as a cake pastry area of a bakery section. Thus more than one wireless beacon may correspond to a sub location and may be used to subdivide the sub location in various embodiments. As the user travels through the merchant location the user may form one or more connections with the wireless beacons throughout the merchant location. Based on the number and type of connections purchasing information about the user may be determined. For example by tracking the connections the tracking information may show the user has only visited the bakery has visited a bakery produce and butcher location or other location information. Thus the user may only be purchasing baked goods or may be purchasing baked good produce and meats respectively.

In addition to using the area that the user visits in the store to make determinations as to the items and or services the user may purchase an amount of time spent in the area may also determine a type or quantity of items and or services that the user may purchase. For example a user visiting a television section of a merchant location for less than 10 minutes may not likely purchase a television. Thus if the user later travels to a video gaming section and then wishes to checkout it is likely the user is only purchasing a video game or video game system. However if the user spends a long time in the television section and then travels to a checkout the user may be purchasing a television. Similarly if the user spends a short time in a produce section the user may only be purchasing one or two fruits or vegetables whereas a user that spends 10 15 minutes in a produce section may be purchasing a substantial amount of fruits and or vegetables.

Using the information about the user taken from the connections between the user device and the wireless beacons at the merchant location an expected checkout time may be determined for the user. The expected checkout time may correspond to an estimated or predicted amount of time that it may take the merchant to ring up the items services the user wishes to purchase e.g. scan and determine a total for the selected items services and an amount of time for the user to provide a payment instrument the merchant and or a payment provider to process the payment and for completion of the payment including providing the merchant and or user a transaction history receipt . The expected checkout time may be determined based on the amount of items to purchase and the type of items. For example purchasing one soda at a merchant location may be quickly accomplished whereas purchasing 30 items of various bakery deli and produce goods may take a substantially longer amount of time. Moreover if grocery items include alcohol or medications age verifications prescription verifications or other processed information may increase an expected checkout time. Additionally the expected checkout time may be affected by previous purchases by the user. If the user has previously purchased or often purchases certain items such as diapers hair products etc. and visits the same area of a store it may be determined that the user will again be purchasing the same products. The user may also establish a shopping list on a user device or cloud service which the user may view and interact with at the merchant location. Thus items input to the shopping list may also be used to determine the expected checkout time for the user. If the user crosses items off the shopping list while at the merchant location it may be determined the user is purchasing that item. Thus a user device or cloud service may provide shopping list information used to determine an expected checkout time.

In various embodiments the payment method of the purchase may affect the expected checkout time. Thus items like large electronic purchases or purchases with an extendable store credit may take longer to accomplish than small cost items. The expected checkout time may also depend on the payment instrument the user may utilize has indicated the user will utilize or has utilized in the past. For example cash credit card check store credit accounts or payment account with a payment provider may each be processed in different amounts of item. Thus the expected checkout time may depend on the payment instrument.

Using the expected checkout time for the user the user may be routed to a specific checkout line or route at the merchant location. The user may further be routed to a specific checkout line based on other users and an expected wait time for the checkout line. For example the merchant may monitor the checkout line by utilizing information about the expected checkout time for each user in the checkout line the number of users in the checkout line the items services the user is purchasing in the checkout line or other information obtainable about the checkout line. Using the checkout line s expected wait time information with the expected checkout time for users at the merchant location the merchant may intelligently route the users to a line that expedites the user s checkout process and or reduces congestion and wait times in each checkout line for the merchant. The merchant may then route further users to the same or different lines based on the expected checkout time for the first user. Thus the expected checkout time for the first user affects the line routing and expected checkout times for subsequent users.

System includes a user a user device wireless beacons a merchant device and payment provider server in communication over a network . User such as a consumer or other shopper at a merchant location may arrive at the merchant location and establish a connection with one or more of wireless beacons at the merchant location while user is selecting items services for purchase. Once user is ready to checkout and pay for the items services merchant device may determine an expected checkout time for user based on the connections between user device and wireless beacons . Merchant device may then instruct user to utilize a specific checkout line at the merchant location. Additionally payment provider server may provide payment services between user device and merchant device .

User device wireless beacons merchant device and payment provider server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network .

User device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication with wireless beacons merchant device and or payment provider server . For example in one embodiment user device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone laptop tablet computer wristwatch with appropriate computer hardware resources eyeglasses with appropriate computer hardware e.g. GOOGLE GLASS other type of wearable computing device and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an IPAD from APPLE . Although a user device is shown the user device may be managed or controlled by any suitable processing device. Although only one user device is shown a plurality of user devices may function similarly.

User device of contains a check in application a payment wallet application other applications a database and a communication module . Check in application payment wallet application and other applications may correspond to processes procedures and or applications executable by a hardware processor for example a software program. In other embodiments user device may include additional or different software as required.

Check in application may be used by user of user device to establish a connection with one or more of wireless beacons established throughout a merchant location for merchant device e.g. a grocery store retail location storefront etc. . Check in application may be configured to connect to one or more of wireless beacons in order to enable merchant device to track user s movements through the merchant location and other behaviors of user while in the merchant location e.g. an amount of time spent in a location of the merchant location . In this regard check in application may receive short range wireless communications from wireless beacons at the merchant location and transmit information to wireless beacons including check in information for a check in process with merchant device or payment provider server if payment provider server provides check in services that associates user with the location corresponding to wireless beacons . For example the location for one or more of wireless beacons may correspond to a sub location within the merchant location such as a produce aisle of a grocery store an electronics section of a retail store a bedding section of a home goods store or other sub area having a description or item service type within a larger merchant location. In such an example wireless beacons may be range limited to correspond only to the sub location and a plurality of other wireless beacons may be distributed throughout the merchant location each capable of uniquely connecting to user device . Wireless beacons may be set to be range limited to the sub locations or may be limited to the room by virtue of merchant location e.g. walls dividers spacing etc. . Thus check in application may transmit information to one or more of wireless beacons when user is nearby the one or more of wireless beacons enabling merchant device to determine where user is within the merchant location. In turn merchant device may make determinations assumptions and intelligent decisions about an expected checkout time for user to complete a transaction at the merchant location as will be explained in more detail herein.

Check in application may further correspond to an application utilized by user device with merchant device to complete a check in for the merchant location corresponding to wireless beacons . The check in with merchant device may correspond to a process to log in to a user account of user with merchant device or payment provider server if payment provider server provides check in services . In other embodiments the check in may provide and or verify the identity of user including transmission of an identifier for user and or user device . The check in may be completed over network with merchant device . In such embodiments check in application may correspond more generally to a browser application configured to communicate with merchant device .

Check in application may execute in the background of an operating system of user device and be configured to establish connections using communication module of user device with one or more of wireless beacons . The connection may be established with or without user input from user . For example wireless beacons may broadcast a token such as a universally unique identifier UUID for reception by check in application as will be explained in more detail herein. Check in application may utilize communication module of user device to receive the token from one or more of wireless beacons . If check in application acknowledges the UUID as identifying wireless beacons merchant device and or payment provider server e.g. if check in application determines the UUID corresponds to a request to complete a check in check in application may transmit an identifier corresponding to user and or user device back to the one or more of wireless beacons transmitting the first identifier. Check in application may utilize communication module of user device to communicate with one or more of wireless beacons e.g. over near field communication Bluetooth Bluetooth Low Energy radio infrared LTE Direct or other connection . The identifier from user device may include be transmitted with concatenated with or otherwise bundled with the identifier received from the one or more of wireless beacons transmitting the first identifier. In other embodiments different information may be transmitted to wireless beacons such as a name or other personal information for user a loyalty account for user with the merchant etc. Thus the information transmitted to wireless beacons does not need to be utilized to process and or complete a check in with merchant device in all embodiments.

Once a connection is established with one or more of wireless beacons user device may be checked in with merchant device if user has not previously been checked in. The check in process may then associate user with the one or more of wireless beacons used to connect to user device . For example a merchant for merchant device may previously have established and registered wireless beacons as located in sub locations throughout a merchant location for the merchant. Thus merchant device may be informed that user is within the sub location based on the connection between user device and one or more of wireless beacons located in the sub location. As previously discussed in other embodiments a check in need not be processed and or completed to associate user with the sub location and or the merchant location. Thus other connections and data transfers to one or more wireless beacons at the sub location may be sufficient to associate user with the sub location and or merchant location.

In various embodiments check in application may display information received from merchant device to user . For example when user device connects to one or more of wireless beacons located at a merchant location for merchant device merchant device may determine that user is at the merchant location. Furthermore if wireless beacons are established in sub locations of the merchant location merchant device may determine a sub location that user has visited. As will be explained in more detail herein merchant device may further determine a time user spends in the sub location other sub locations user visits and an expected checkout time to process and or complete a transaction for items services selected by user at the merchant location. Using the aforementioned information and other information available to merchant device merchant device may determine a checkout line that user may utilize to optimize user customer throughput and speed when checking out and paying for items services at the merchant location. For example merchant device may optimize wait times in each checkout line by placing numerous users with 1 3 item purchases in one line while the 2 users with 15 or more item purchases in another line as will be explained in more detail herein. The information for the checkout line route or path for user may be presented to user in check in application .

Moreover merchant device may present user with determined estimated or intelligently decided information based on the tracking shopping and or expected purchasing information determined for user through connections between user device and wireless beacons . For example based on the information gathered about user using wireless beacons an expected checkout time and an optimized checkout line for user may be determined and presented to user through an application interface of check in application . However if the expected checkout time far exceeds an actual or predicted checkout time that user knows or believes it will take user to checkout user may ignore the checkout line determined and communicated to user or may enter further information to check in application to refine the expected checkout time for a better estimate of the amount of time to check out by user . Thus the checkout line provided to user may be altered using input by user .

Additional parameters and or information that affect the expected checkout time and resulting optimized checkout line for user may be presented to user through check in application interface . For example a number and or type of items services predicted to be purchased by user using information gathered by wireless beacons may be presented by check in application . Additionally past behavior such as transaction histories items services in the transaction histories and checkout times for completion of the transaction histories may be presented by check in application . These transaction histories may further present the payment instrument selected by user or a payment instrument for user by user may be selected using payment wallet application or entered to check in application . In order to prevent abuse by user when providing input to reduce an expected checkout time such as a number of items services selected for purchase by user type of items services selected for purchase by user payment instrument used by user and or past checkout times by user an abuse system may be implemented by merchant device that prevents user from altering one or more parameters affecting the expected checkout time as will be explained in more detail herein. Thus if user is determined to be abusing the alteration of the parameters check in application may limit and or prevent user from altering the aforementioned parameters when presented to user in an application interface of check in application .

Payment wallet application may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit user to select payment options and provide payment for items and or services. For example payment wallet application may be implemented as an application having a user interface enabling the user to enter payment options for storage by user device provide payment to a merchant e.g. through merchant device and complete a transaction for the items and or services using payment provider server . In certain embodiments payment wallet application may correspond more generally to a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet or access a website corresponding to a payment provider.

Payment wallet application may be configured to provide payment to merchant device . In this regard payment wallet application may correspond to an application that may provide an interface where user may view a purchase order for items requested by user . Additionally user may generate a payment request for the purchase order to the merchant. The payment request may instruct payment provider server to provide payment for the purchase order to the merchant. Additionally the payment request may denote a payment instrument that payment provider server may utilize to provide the payment to the merchant. Payment wallet application may correspond to a dedicated application for payment provider server e.g. a specific device application or may correspond to a browser application.

The payment request may correspond to a token including the selected payment instrument for user . The payment instrument may include an account identifier payment card bank account etc. Once the payment request is generated user may authorize the payment request for transmission to payment provider server in order to effectuate a payment to the merchant. Payment wallet application may transmit the payment request to payment provider server with an identifier for the merchant in order to complete the payment to the merchant. In other embodiments payment wallet application may transmit the payment request as a token with a payment instrument and identifier for user to merchant device for completion by the merchant.

Payment wallet application may provide payment for items using a user account with the payment provider such as payment provider server . Payment wallet application may include cross linking allowing user to identify a user account through an identifier for a separate user account e.g. identifying a user account through a debit card account number and vice versa . Payment wallet application may further include options to store transaction histories for purchased items such as receipts for later use. Thus payment wallet application provides an interface enabling user to provide proof of purchase to the merchant.

In various embodiments one or more features of check in application and or payment wallet application may be incorporated in the same application so as to provide their respective features in one application.

User device includes other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to user device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Other applications may also include email texting voice and IM applications that allow a user to send and receive emails calls texts and other notifications through network . In various embodiments other applications may include financial applications such as banking online payments money transfer or other applications associated with payment provider server . Other applications may include browser social networking and or mapping applications which may also be used in conjunction with check in application and or payment wallet application . Other applications may contain software programs executable by a processor including a graphical user interface GUI configured to provide an interface to the user.

User device may further include database which may include for example identifiers such as operating system registry entries cookies associated with check in application payment wallet application and or other applications identifiers associated with hardware of user device or other appropriate identifiers such as identifiers used for payment user device authentication or identification. Identifiers in database may be used by a payment credit provider such as payment provider server to associate user device with a particular account maintained by the payment credit provider. Database may include user device tokens and or encryption keys including an encryption key of wireless beacons merchant device and or payment provider server . Database may include identifying information for tokens enabling check in application to identify wireless beacons merchant device and or payment provider server when receiving a corresponding check in token.

User device includes at least one communication module adapted to communicate with wireless beacons merchant device and or payment provider server . In various embodiments communication module may include a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communication devices. Communication module may communicate directly with wireless beacons using short range communications such as Bluetooth Low Energy LTE Direct radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communications.

Wireless beacons may be maintained for example by a merchant for merchant device and or payment provider server . Wireless beacons may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wireless communication with merchant device . For example in one embodiment wireless beacons may be implemented as a dongle device including a hardware processor and a communication module for example connected to device at the location of user . Wireless beacons may also be implemented as a device incorporated within a personal computer PC a smart phone laptop tablet computer and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data. Wireless beacons may also act as a stand alone device including a processor communication module and or network interface component configured to communicate with merchant device and or payment provider server . Although wireless beacons are described as a plurality of wireless beacons set up at sub locations within a merchant location for merchant device in various embodiments wireless beacons may correspond to a single wireless beacon established at the merchant location and or a sub location within the merchant location.

Wireless beacons may be located at a physical location corresponding to merchant device e.g. a merchant location such as a grocery store shopping market retail location merchant storefront etc. . Each of wireless beacons may be established at sub locations located throughout the merchant location. For example one or more of wireless beacons may be established in an area corresponding to a specific type of item service or items services available at the merchant location e.g. food type personal service type consumer good type etc. . Each of wireless beacons may further be range limited to connect to device within the sub location. Wireless beacons of contains processes procedures and or applications executable by a hardware processor for example a software program configured to interact with user device merchant device and or payment provider server . Thus regardless of the implementation of wireless beacons as discussed above each of wireless beacons utilize a check in application and a communication module . In other embodiments wireless beacons may include additional or different software and devices as required.

Check in application may correspond to an application for transmitting requests to establish a connection between a device e.g. user device and one of wireless beacons . The requests may be unique to each of wireless beacons and form a connection with only the matching one of wireless beacons . Thus wireless beacons may utilize short range wireless communications e.g. BLE LTE Direct WiFi etc. of wireless beacons to transmit the requests to establish a connection including an identifier such as a Universally Unique Identifier UUID . If user device receives a request to establish the connection with wireless beacons and responds with an identifier for user user device potentially including the UUID and other information necessary to effectuate a check in for user wireless beacons to ramp up in power and create a connection between user device and one of wireless beacons .

Each of wireless beacons may uniquely transmit the request to establish the connection with wireless beacons as a short range wireless communication e.g. a BLE protocol communication including a wake up process for check in application of user device and or a token for the one of wireless beacons transmitting the request. In other embodiments the request and or connection may utilize near field communication radio communication infrared communication or Bluetooth communication. Additionally although wireless beacons may utilize BLE protocol communications to effectuate an always on type service where the QUID and wake up process are transmitted continuously other communication protocols used to provide an always on service may include QUALCOMM LTE Direct or similar device to device communication technology. BLE and LTE Direct may both be utilized to provide discovery of nearby devices to wireless beacons e.g. user device and or merchant device and establishment of a connection for data transfers.

The request may be specific to user device by including information that is specific to user such as a name identifier or user device identifier. The information specific to user may be determined from a user account of user or other information previously provided to merchant device and or payment provider server . Thus in certain embodiments only merchant device will pick up and authenticate the request. In other embodiments user device may only pick up the request based on the signal range and or physical context for one of wireless beacons transmitting the request within the sub location. For example one of wireless beacons established in a sub location of a merchant location and may be limited in range only to connect to user device if user device is located in the sub location.

After check in application receives an identifier from user device check in application may determine user is in proximity to the wireless beacon of wireless beacons receiving user s identifier. Thus merchant device may determine a sub location where user is located through the connection between one or more of wireless beacons . Wireless beacons may pass the identifier to payment provider server to complete the check in process. As shown in wireless beacons may utilize communication module to pass the identifier to merchant device which may then pass the identifier to payment provider server . However in other embodiments wireless beacons may utilize a network connection of wireless beacons to pass the identifier to payment provider server directly. Additionally check in application may cause wireless beacons to keep a communication channel open between user device merchant device and or payment provider server for passing additional information such as connection time between user device and one or more of wireless beacons expected checkout times checkout lines routes lanes for user etc.

In various embodiments wireless beacons includes at least one communication module adapted to communicate with user device merchant device and or payment provider server . Communication module may include a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communication devices. Communication module may communicate with user device and or merchant device using short range communications such as radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communications.

Merchant device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication with user device wireless beacons and or payment provider server . For example merchant device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone laptop computer wristwatch with appropriate computer hardware resources eyeglasses with appropriate computer hardware e.g. GOOGLE GLASS and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an IPAD from APPLE . Although a merchant device is shown the merchant device may be managed or controlled by any suitable processing device. Although only one merchant device is shown a plurality of merchant devices may function similarly. Moreover in various embodiments one or more of the applications processes and or features discussed below in reference to merchant device may be included in payment provider server and vice versa.

Merchant device of contains a beacon application a line routing application a sales application other applications a database and a communication module . Beacon application line routing application sales application and other applications may correspond to processes procedures and or applications executable by a hardware processor for example a software program. In other embodiments merchant device may include additional or different software as required.

Beacon application may correspond to an application configured to monitor wireless beacons and determine connectivity of wireless beacons with user devices such as user device . In this respect beacon application may receive and or access connection information for connections between user device and one or more of wireless beacons . As previously discussed a connection between user device and one or more of wireless beacons may be formed when user device is in proximity to one or more of wireless beacons and receives a communication signal from the one or more of wireless beacons in proximity to user device . In various embodiments beacon application may monitor and receive updates on the connection between user device and a beacon of wireless beacons connected to user device after establishing the communication channel or connection However in other embodiments beacon application may correspond to processes to complete a check in with user device for a merchant location corresponding to merchant device e.g. with one or more of wireless beacons established in sub locations and or a merchant location for the merchant of merchant device . Thus beacon application may correspond to the merchant device side application configured to receive check in information e.g. user account information and or an identifier for user from user device and complete the check in. The check in request may include log in information for a user account with merchant device and or payment provider server and thus complete the check in with user by verifying the account information. For example the check in information may include an identifier or other account information for a user payment account of user . However in embodiments where a user account has not been previously established by user beacon application may receive other information identifying user and or the merchant including a user name identifier user device identifier an identifier for an account with another entity or other information.

Beacon application may determine the sub location visited by user using the connection s between user device and one or more of wireless beacons. Moreover beacon application may further determine an amount of time spent by user in the sub location by determining an amount of time of existence of the connection between user device and one or more of wireless beacons . For example user may be determined to be located in a produce sub location of a grocery store for 10 minutes if the connection between user device and a wireless beacon of wireless beacons established in the produce section exists for 10 minutes. At the end of the 10 minutes if user walks out of the produce section and user device can no longer connect to the wireless beacon established in the produce section then beacon application may determine user is no longer in the produce section. Moreover beacon application may track user s movements throughout the merchant location by receiving and or accessing information on which of wireless beacons that user device connects with and how long the stay in connection to those wireless beacons.

Once check in is completed between user device and wireless beacons line routing application may be utilized to determine a line lane or route for checkout for user that may optimize both a checkout time for user and a throughput or traffic flow for all users checking out at the merchant location. For example line routing application may determine a line for user that may complete checkout fastest for user . Additionally line routing application may also determine a line for user to optimize each checkout line at the merchant location so that each user may complete checkout quickly based on the items services for purchase by each user. Thus optimization of the checkout lines may focus on the fastest throughput or traffic for each checkout line at the merchant location so that one checkout line does not take considerably longer than another checkout line. In this regard line routing application may receive information from beacon application and process the information to determine an expected checkout time for user . Information received from beacon application may correspond to movement location time tracking information for user such as sub locations within the merchant location that user visited amount of time spent in the sub locations and or actions taken in the sub locations e.g. scanned items using a camera or scanning function of user device item lookups using a browse search feature of user device merchant service requests in the sub location etc. .

Line routing application may processes the information received from beacon application to make assumptions determinations and or intelligent decisions as to the amount and or type of item s service s that user is purchasing. For example if user spends 1 minute in a produce section or a music section of a store line routing application may determine user is only purchasing a single item or small number of items. Conversely if user spends 10 15 minutes in a produce section or 30 minutes in a music section line routing application may determine that user may be purchasing a number of items. Additionally user may take actions in those sections such as scanning items using user device to determine a price or looking up items to determine sales at other stores or online which may affect line routing application s determination of items for purchase by user . Based on the number of items that user may purchase line routing application may determine how long user may take to complete a checkout at the merchant location for merchant device . Thus if user spends 15 minutes in a produce section and may be purchasing several items of produce it may take user longer e.g. 3 5 minutes to checkout than if user spends 1 minute in the produce section and may only be purchasing a single item e.g. 1 minute .

Moreover a type of item for purchase may also affect the expected checkout time for user . Whereas a user shopping for media in a department store may take 1 minute to pay for a single CD or DVD a user shopping in the television or computer section of the department store may take noticeably longer e.g. 10 20 minutes . For example a user paying for a DVD may provide cash or payment card that quickly completes a checkout. Conversely a person purchasing a 1 000 television or computer may wish to negotiate warranties split payment between accounts inquire into credit extended by the store and or payment plans and potentially utilize such offers and or present coupons or other discounts. Thus line routing application may determine expected items for purchase by user which may affected an expected checkout time for user .

A payment instrument for use by user may also affect the expected checkout time determine by line routing application . For example utilizing cash payment card and or payment account with a payment provider may be quick when completing a payment. For example cash may only take 30 seconds to accept and provide change while a payment card may only take 10 seconds to scan and sign a receipt. Conversely utilizing a check may take 1 2 minutes to fill out the check having it scanned and accept identification to prevent fraud and or insufficient account funds e.g. the check bouncing . Moreover in high cost items payment plans and or credit lines may be extended to user such as in the above television computer example. Thus in order to assess user s credit worthiness complete a credit check fill out credit payment plan forms and complete the transaction the merchant for merchant device may require 10 20 minutes or more. Therefore an expected checkout time may be affected by the payment instrument selected by user . The payment instrument may be determined based on past transactions by user past transactions by user with the merchant for merchant device and or a selected payment instrument by user using user device .

The expected checkout time for user may also be determined using past transactions for user . Merchant device and or other merchant device for other merchants may time user while completing checkout. The time for user to actually complete checkout may be stored and may affect the expected checkout time for user . Thus if user always takes 2 minutes to complete a transaction for 5 items or always takes 1 minute to complete a transaction for apples merchant device may adjust the expected checkout time using such information. The actual checkout time s for user may also be compared to an average checkout time for the same or similar items service by other users to determine if user takes shorter or longer than other users. Thus the expected checkout time may also be affected by this comparison.

As previously discussed line routing application may transmit the determined information for user to user device for review by user . Thus user may view predicted items services for purchase by user a payment instrument for transaction processing and payment determined for user and or an expected checkout time for user . If user is not purchasing listed items services is purchasing additional items service or is utilizing another payment method user may change the information using user device which may update and affect the expected checkout time determined by line routing application . However if user changes the items services numbers and or payment instrument fraudulently e.g. is actually purchasing items that were removed from the predicted items for purchase by user line routing application may limit or prevent user from making such changes in the future.

Once an expected checkout time is determined for user line routing application may determine a line lane or route for checkout by user . A merchant location may include a plurality of checkout lines each having none one or more users in the line and checking out paying for items services with the merchant. Line routing application may determine an estimated or actual wait time for each line for example using the expected checkout times for each user in the line the lines throughput traffic or other information about the checkout line. Thus line routing application may inform user of which line to enter in order to checkout based on the checkout lines information and the expected checkout time for user . The line for user may be based on which line will most quickly complete a checkout for user by routing user to a line that has the shortest wait. However line routing application may also optimize each line to decrease wait and or traffic time for all users by routing user to a line that optimizes all users checkout times at the merchant location. Thus if user is expected to take 20 minutes to checkout user may be routed to a line that is 10 minutes long even if another line that is 5 minutes long is available. Thus user will not sharply increase the time in a short line that can be user by line routing application to direct other users with short expected checkout times. Therefore if there are a large number of users with short expected checkout times and user is the only or one of a few users with large checkout times line routing application may route user to the longer line so that traffic through the short line may continue flowing quickly. However if line routing application does not expect other users to enter the short checkout line user may be routed to the short checkout line even if user is expected to take noticeably longer to complete a checkout.

Line routing application may present the determined checkout line to user through user device . In order to prevent user from visiting an incorrect line or otherwise abusing the line system line routing application may require a connection and or check in with user device and or a wireless beacon of wireless beacons established in the checkout line. For example a checkout line may include a wireless beacon of wireless beacons that connects to user device and alerts user that they are in the correct line. The merchant for merchant device may also be alerted so that the merchant is aware that user is in the correct line. If user is in the incorrect line user and or the merchant may be alerted. In various embodiments line routing application may display a map for the checkout lines to user with the correct checkout line. In other embodiments a number identifier or other information may be presented to user on user device that may be shown to a merchant or line administrator so that user is placed in the correct checkout line.

Sales application may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit a merchant for merchant device to enter view and or process items services user wishes to purchase. For example sales application may be implemented as an application having a user interface enabling the merchant to enter the items services user has selected for purchase e.g. through input by the merchant and or user scanning the items services etc. . Sales application may further enable the merchant to view the items services for purchase by user enter coupons and or discounts for the items services edit the order including adding removing and or modifying items services or other functions with regards the selected items services. Once the items services have been arranged into an order for purchase by user a total may be calculated and a transaction may be engaged with user to complete payment for the selected items services.

Sales application may request payment covering the selected items service from user . Thus sales application may receive a payment instrument from user to complete a transaction for the selected items services. The payment instrument may correspond to cash payment cards checks and or payment accounts with payment provider server in various embodiments. Once a transaction is processed and or completed by sales application for the selected items services by user a transaction history e.g. receipt may be generated and provided to one or more of user user device and or payment provider server . Additionally sales application may time calculate or otherwise determine an amount of time that user requires to checkout with merchant device . For example the amount of time may correspond to an actual amount of time from the beginning of the transaction between user and merchant device to the end of the transaction. The beginning of the transaction may correspond to a time a first item service selected by user is entered to sales application or another starting point such as initiating payment. The end of the transaction may be determined to be when user provides a payment instrument to merchant device a payment for the selected items services is processed or completed and or when user leaves a checkout line route at the merchant location for merchant device . The amount of time required by user to checkout with merchant device may be provided in the transaction history. Furthermore the payment instrument utilized by user and the amount of time may be utilized by line routing application to determine an expected checkout time for user as previously discussed.

Merchant device includes other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to merchant device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. In various embodiments other applications may include financial applications such as banking online payments money transfer or other applications associated with payment provider server . Other applications may contain other software programs executable by a processor including a graphical user interface GUI configured to provide an interface to the user.

Merchant device may further include database which may include for example identifiers such as operating system registry entries cookies associated with beacon application line routing application sales application and or other applications identifiers associated with hardware of merchant device or other appropriate identifiers such as identifiers used for payment user device authentication or identification. In one embodiment identifiers in database may be used by payment provider server to associate merchant device with a particular account maintained by payment provider server . Database may also store user s information including check in information an identifier etc. for user . Database may include payment instruments past transaction histories expected checkout times and or other past information for user . Information about checkout lines at a merchant location corresponding to merchant device may also be stored to database such as current wait times estimated wait times traffic flow or other statistic that may affect a user s expected checkout time in a line or the lines throughput.

Merchant device includes at least one communication module adapted to communicate with user device wireless beacons and or payment provider server . In various embodiments communication module may include a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communication devices. Communication module may communicate directly with wireless beacons using short range communications such as Bluetooth Low Energy LTE Direct radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communications.

Payment provider server may be maintained for example by an online payment service provider which may provide payment services and or processing for financial transactions on behalf of a user. In this regard payment provider server includes one or more processing applications which may be configured to interact with user device wireless beacons and or merchant device to facilitate payment for a transaction. In one example payment provider server may be provided by PAYPAL Inc. of San Jose Calif. USA. However in other embodiments payment provider server may be maintained by or include a credit provider financial services provider financial data provider and or other service provider which may provide payment services to user and or the merchant. Moreover in various embodiments one or more of the applications processes and or features discussed below in reference to payment provider server may be included in merchant device and vice versa.

Payment provider server of includes a transaction processing application other applications a database and a network interface component . Transaction processing application and other applications may correspond to processes procedures and or applications executable by a hardware processor for example a software program. In other embodiments payment provider server may include additional or different software as required such as a check in application and or a monitoring application as discussed in reference to merchant device where those features are instead provided by payment provider server .

Transaction processing application may be configured to receive information from and or transmit information to user device and or merchant device for processing and completion of financial transactions. Transaction processing application may include one or more applications to process financial transaction information from user and merchant for merchant device by receiving a request to complete transaction for items and or services offered by the merchant. The request may correspond to a payment from user to the merchant. The payment may include a user account identifier or other payment information e.g. a credit debit card or checking account for user and a receiving account for the merchant. Additionally the payment may include a payment amount and terms of payment. Transaction processing application may complete the transaction by providing payment to the merchant through the receiving account payment information. Additionally transaction processing application may provide transaction histories including receipts to user device and or merchant device for completion and documentation of the financial transaction. For example a transaction history may be provided to user device and or merchant device to allow for the merchant to view the transaction and provide the items and or services to user .

In various embodiments payment provider server includes other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to payment provider server . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing server side security features programmatic server applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Other applications may contain software programs executable by a processor including a graphical user interface GUI configured to provide an interface to a user.

Additionally payment provider server includes database . As previously discussed user and or the merchant may establish one or more payment accounts with payment provider server . User accounts in database may include merchant user information such as name address birthdate payment funding information additional user financial information and or other desired user data. User and or the merchant may link to their respective payment accounts through a user merchant and or device identifier. Thus when an identifier is transmitted to payment provider server e.g. from user device and or merchant device a payment account belonging to user and or the merchant may be found. In other embodiments user and or the merchant may not have previously established a payment account and may provide other financial information to payment provider server to complete financial transactions as previously discussed.

In various embodiments payment provider server includes at least one network interface component adapted to communicate user device wireless beacons and or merchant device over network . In various embodiments network interface component may comprise a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency RF and infrared IR communication devices.

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks. Thus network may correspond to small scale communication networks such as a private or local area network or a larger scale network such as a wide area network or the Internet accessible by the various components of system .

Shown in environment are sub locations within a merchant location . Merchant location may correspond to a shopping market or grocery store where users and may purchase food and other goods. Thus merchant location includes at least 3 sub locations shown as produce bakery and deli . The sub locations may correspond to an area of merchant location where users and may select an type of item for purchase such as fruits and vegetables in produce cakes pastries and breads in bakery and salads sandwiches and meats in deli . Moreover as shown in environment produce is monitored by wireless beacon bakery is monitored by wireless beacon and deli is monitored by wireless beacons

When user visits produce in order to purchase items e.g. fruits and or vegetables user device may connect to wireless beacon . Similarly when user enters bakery user device may connect to wireless beacon and when user enter deli user device may connect to wireless beacons . Based on the connect between user device and with wireless beacons and respectively a merchant device not shown may determine each user has selected items for purchase from the corresponding area. Thus the merchant device may determine user has placed one or more of items into cart . Similarly user may place one or more of items into cart and user may place one or more items into cart

In various embodiments cart and or may include various hardware and or software to detect if items have been placed into cart and or and or determine what items user and or have placed into cart and or respectively. For example cart and or may include scales scanners sensors or other hardware and or software to detect items placed into each respective cart. Moreover based on the amount of time user device and or spends connected to wireless beacon and or the merchant device may determine what and or how many items are placed into cart and or . Once user leaves produce user device may disconnect from wireless beacon signifying user has completed shopping in produce . User devices and may function similarly with wireless beacons and . Furthermore if prior to attending checkout aisles users and or visit another sub location the merchant device may further determine users and or have further selected items for purchase in that area. For example user may visit bakery after produce and select one or more items for purchase. Thus based on a connection between user device and wireless beacons the merchant device may determine user has selected one or more of items for purchase.

In environment user and user at a merchant location are ready to check out. User has a cart filled with items for purchase at merchant location while user has a basket with a few items for purchase at merchant location . Furthermore a checkout aisle a checkout aisle and a checkout aisle include users ready to checkout and finish a transaction with merchant device merchant device and merchant device in checkout aisle checkout aisle and checkout aisle respectively.

A merchant device such as one or more of merchant device and or or a merchant server or other network device for merchant location may determine items in cart and basket based on sub locations user and user has visited in merchant location time spent by user and in those sub locations actions taken by user and in those sub locations and or sensors or other information captured by cart and or . For example as shown in user may have visited a produce section and or other sub locations at merchant location . Thus the merchant device may determine an expected checkout time for user and using the information as previously discussed.

The merchant device may further determine a wait time for each of checkout aisle and . For example it is shown in environment that user has a basket and user has a cart . Based on the expected checkout times determined for user and user checkout aisle may have a first wait time. Similarly checkout aisle includes a user with a cart . User may have an expected checkout time based on the items in cart that affects a second wait time for checkout aisle . Additionally checkout aisle includes user with a basket user with an item and user with an item . Based on the expected checkout times for user and checkout aisle may have a third wait time.

Based on the first wait time the second wait time and the third wait time with the expected checkout times for users and user and may be directed to one of checkout aisle and . For example checkout aisle only has user waiting in line. Thus the second wait time for checkout aisle may be relatively short so that both user and are directed to checkout aisle based on the few users in checkout aisle . However in another embodiment cart may include a large amount of items such as a full shopping cart at a grocery store with 50 items for purchase. Thus the second wait time for checkout aisle may be longer than checkout aisle where users and user only have a single item or a couple items in carts and respectively and user has a small basket of items in basket . In such an embodiment users and may instead be directed to checkout aisle

In other embodiments the merchant device routing users to checkout aisles in environment may also determine the lines users and are directed to using traffic flow for each of checkout aisles and . For example user may also have cart full of items for purchase causing the expected checkout time for user to be long. Thus user may be directed to checkout aisle to keep traffic flowing through checkout aisle and . Similarly if user has only a couple items in basket user may be directed to checkout aisle where traffic is flowing quickly. However if more items are in basket so that user may take an intermediate amount of time to checkout user may be directed to checkout aisle where user has a basket of goods and user has a cart of goods. Thus traffic may also be optimized to insure proper flow through checkout aisles and

User device displays a check in application interface corresponding generally to the processes and features described in reference to check in application of . Check in application interface may display information for a checkout line lane or route that a user not shown of user device may utilize to complete a checkout. The checkout line may be optimized for the user as previously discussed. Thus a merchant device includes a line routing application interface corresponding generally to the processes and features described in reference to line routing application of . Line routing application interface may be displayed to a merchant or merchant employee e.g. a checkout clerk for viewing and input by the merchant. However in other implementation the line routing application may execute in a background of merchant device and be configured to determine expected checkout times for users and transmit checkout line routing to the users without merchant input.

Line routing application interface includes users correspond to the users connected to beacons at the merchant location. Thus users displays a user A and a user B . Under user A is information about a user A including items locations an estimated checkout time and a line . Items may correspond to predicted items that user A may purchase based on input from the wireless beacons established throughout a merchant location as previously discussed. Such information in items may be influenced by locations that user A has visited. Thus locations may be determined based on the connections between a device of user A and wireless beacons at those locations. Using items and locations merchant device may determine estimated checkout time shown as 4 minutes in . Similarly merchant device may determine an estimated checkout time using items and locations for user B . Thus estimated checkout time is shown as 1 minute in .

Merchant device may further include information about lines . Lines may therefore include an estimated or actual wait time for each like. Thus a line 1 time is shown as 3 minutes a line 2 time is shown as 10 minutes a line 3 time is shown as 7 minutes and a line 4 time is shown as 12 minutes. Merchant device may utilize the times under lines to determine line and line for user A and user B respectively. Thus by processing the information together merchant device is shown to determine line 3 for user A and line 1 for user B

Based on the information about what items services the user of user device may purchase an expected shopping cart may be displayed to the user in check in application interface . Expected shopping cart includes items having predicted determined or received items for purchase by the user. Items may include items predicted based on locations that the user is determined to have visited in a merchant location. Additionally the user may enter edit and or remove items services from items as previously discussed. Using the expected shopping cart an estimated checkout time is displayed to the user shown as 4 minutes in . Further an assigned line line 1 is also displayed to the user.

User device also displays a payment wallet application interface corresponding generally to the processes and features described in reference to payment wallet application of . Payment wallet application interface includes payment instruments having payment instruments the user of user device may utilize to process and complete a transaction with merchant device . Furthermore a selected payment instrument under payment instruments may also affect estimated checkout time determined by merchant device and estimated checkout time displayed to the user. Thus the user may select one or more of payment account payment card and or cash . One or more of payment account payment card and or cash may also already be selected under payment instruments based on past transactions by the user. Furthermore if the information for payment instruments is stored to user device or accessible by user device and or merchant device the user may select a complete payment process to complete the payment with merchant device .

At step information comprising at least one connection between a user device for a user and a wireless beacon established at a location for a merchant is accessed. The information may correspond to user tracking information between a user device and at least one wireless beacon at a merchant location. The connection may utilize one of near field communication radio communication infrared communication Bluetooth communication Bluetooth Low Energy BLE communication LTE Direct communication and WiFi communication. The user tracking information may further comprise an amount of time for the at least one connection between the user device and the at least one wireless beacon. Further the wireless beacon may be established at a sub location at the merchant location and a plurality of other wireless beacons may each be established at other sub location at the merchant location.

An expected checkout time for the user is determined using the information at step . A sub location with a wireless beacon may include items services and or sales available at the sub location. Thus the expected checkout time may be further determined using the type of item service or sales available at the sub location. The expected checkout time may also be further determined using an amount of time spent at the sub location. In various embodiments a past checkout time a transaction history and or at least one past used payment instrument for the user may be accessed where the expected checkout time is further determined using the aforementioned accessed information. For example a transaction history may comprise items or services previously purchased with the merchant that may affect the expected checkout time. In other embodiments the past checkout time may comprise an average time to complete a checkout for items or services with the merchant from past transactions by the user with the merchant.

At step a checkout line for the user may be determined using the expected checkout time. In various embodiments at least one item or service for purchase by the user may be determined using the connection. Thus the expected checkout time and the checkout line may be determined using the at least one item or service. In various embodiments another user may presently be waiting in one of a plurality of checkout lines such as the checkout line determined using the expected checkout time. Thus an expected checkout time for the other user may be determined which may affect the determination of which of the plurality of checkout lines to route the first user. The checkout line is communicated to the user at step . In various embodiments the information determined about the user from the connection may be communicated to the user with the expected checkout time. Thus a change to at least one of the information and the expected checkout time for the user may be received and another checkout line may be determine and communicated to the user using the change. Moreover the expected checkout time for the user and the checkout line communicated to the user may affect subsequent users. Thus when subsequent users are routed to checkout lines the amount of time the user may spend in the checkout line may affect the routing the subsequent users to certain checkout lines.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons image or links and or moving one or more images etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device service device or a service provider server via network . In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. One or more processors which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor s may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor s and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor s for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various embodiments non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EEPROM FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

