---

title: Analytics platform spanning a subset using pipeline analytics
abstract: Determination and indication of operational performance of deployments in an expert integrated system that has multiple deployments, with each deployment having multiple patterns. The determination is based upon pipe analytics, with the pipe analytics being performed over a common subnet that includes both the analytics platform and the management nodes of each deployment of the multiple deployments.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09569251&OS=09569251&RS=09569251
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09569251
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160404
---
The present invention relates generally to the field of expert integrated systems that have deployment groups made up of virtual machines where the deployment groups are organized into sub sets based on function called patterns.

An expert integrated system is a set of components and servers. Traditionally an expert integrated system took the form of a factory pre configured set of hardware that could be physically delivered to a location or locations. More recently many expert integrated systems have become cloud based so that there is not a strong correlation between the services provided to the expert systems customer and the specific real world physical components that make up the expert integrated system at a given time.

Expert integrated systems include i a flexible software based system manager and ii patterns of expertise for the automated configuration and management of the services provided by the expert integrated system. The patterns of expertise can provide field engineers expertise from decades of system configuration. Preferably these patterns of expertise offer industry specific for example banking insurance automotive defaults for the fully automatic and optimal orchestration of resources for example workload balancing .

Expert integrated systems may use various operating systems now known or to be developed in the future . Expert integrated systems may include various kinds of hypervisors for various kinds of hardware architectures for example power architecture and or x86 . At least some expert integrated systems can be described as converged systems with these converged systems combining the functionality of an appliance with the flexibility of an arbitrarily scalable system.

Some cloud based expert management systems i manage hybrid cloud infrastructure environments out of the box ii combine integrated hardware and software in a manner that can be easily maintained and iii include server machines for example server blades that host virtual machine based compute nodes.

A cloud group in an expert integrated system consists of one or more deployments. Each deployment is a set of virtual machines located in the cloud. Each deployment is also broken into patterns with each pattern providing different functionality. There is not generally a one to one correspondence between the virtual machines of a deployment and the patterns of the same deployment. The patterns include i virtual machines VMs ii physical host computers physical hosts iii configurations iv policies and v shared services.

An expert integrated system and associated method including multiple deployments and an analytics platform. Each deployment is respectively characterized by a plurality of patterns with each pattern representing a set of data processing tasks. Each deployment includes a plurality of virtual machines programmed to perform the data processing associated with the deployment s plurality of patterns. Each deployment further includes a set of management nodes structured programmed and or connected to manage the deployment s virtual machines. The analytics platform is structured programmed and or connected to collect analytics input data from the set of management nodes of each deployment of the plurality of deployments. The analytics platform is further structured programmed and or connected to perform analytics processing on the analytics input data to provide analytics output data that relates to operational performance of each deployment.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure recognize the following i an administrator of an expert integrated system also sometimes referred to more simply as an expert system cannot easily or automatically get a holistic view of how virtual machines are participating in different solutions across different deployments ii an administrator of an expert integrated system would benefit from being able to get certain insights for his deployments iii there are conventional solutions that provide individual VM level details in terms of monitoring of CPU central processing unit Memory Disk I O input output etc. iv conventionally there is no single system that can run analytics on all the collected data across deployments and v conventionally there is no single system that provide a holistic score of individual deployments to be able to drill down to individual VM usage. With respect to item ii of the foregoing list the certain insights may include a what systems are participating across his cloud groups b what is the utilization of individual VMs in each cloud group c what is the overall utilization of his cloud groups d why are some VMs within the cloud groups utilized less than others and or e insights of different deployments running within the cloud groups.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure i provide a method apparatus and architecture for achieving cross deployment visibility and analytics ii relate to deployments in expert integrated systems or cloud deployments of virtual machine sets and or iii provide for different deployments in an expert integrated system or in the cloud to be viewed for activity by analyzing different data sets available from the virtual machines in the deployments and other data available in the management layer of the expert systems. If there are multiple expert integrated systems participating to support patterns this analytics platform is deployed in a way to hold operational data from multiple management layers belonging to the same cluster thereby giving a holistic data cluster for performing analytics.

As shown in high level expert integrated system first constituent expert integrated system second constituent expert integrated system sub net and analytics platform . Expert integrated system includes storage device set management nodes and compute nodes set . Expert integrated system includes storage device set management nodes and compute nodes set . As shown in analytics platform includes analytics platform component also called processing and API application program interface cluster analytics content data store management and cloud data component a search cluster set .

In this cloud based system compute nodes are each in the form of a set of virtual machines VMs . In this embodiment the number and type of virtual machines in a set of compute nodes will remain constant over time. Alternatively the number and type of virtual machines in a set of compute nodes may change over the course of the operation of a deployment. Expert system can be considered as a first deployment with the VMs of compute nodes set being its deployment group . Each deployment group is a logical grouping of a set of assigned compute nodes or VMs so that a pattern can be realized that is deployed and made to run .

Expert integrated system forms the basis for deployments suitable for use with embodiments according to the present disclosure. A deployment is a configuration of virtual machines working together to provide a holistic solution for a set of components working together. In this embodiment pattern to VM mapping has a static initial configuration to reflect the minimum number of VMs required to run the pattern. However once the pattern is realized there are policies in the patterns that can help scale out the solution by adding or deleting new VM instances.

Management nodes provide a management interface for the deployment within integrated expert system . These management functions typically include provisioning of nodes of a deployment to the patterns of the deployment placing the servers and storage in this embodiment in this context this is a hardware allocation logging different changes to the deployment etc. In this embodiment the various management nodes are implemented in hardware as blade servers. The blade servers also called management blades of management nodes and management nodes are located in a common also called unified subnet along with analytics platform . In this way analytics platform can easily and continuously get input data related to operation of the various patterns of the multiple deployments upon which to perform analytics processing.

Providing an analytics platform for expert systems set across different expert systems for deployment is achieved by locating analytics platform along with the management nodes in unified subnet . The management blades are configured in the same subnet of IP internet protocol addresses in order to provide a unified data collection and analytics base for deployments spanning across multiple expert systems as shown by subnet in which encompasses all management nodes for the two deployments along with platform .

Analytics platform performs deployment analytics and deployment visibility with respect to an expert integrated system. Analytics platform component is a processing and API application programming interface cluster http hypertext transfer protocol servers set also referred to more simply as Processing and API Clusters . Analytics platform component is located among and between management nodes .

In this embodiment i the Processing and API Cluster is a set of http servers hosting processing of API requests including analytics pipe execution and visualization ii search cluster set holds a distributed cluster of nodes within the management layer of data collected from the management layer iii management and cloud data component stores data provided by the management layer like logs for individual deployments and VM specific monitoring data in the management layer and data for any audit events like changing of a configuration of a deployment and iv analytic content data store is the data and logic used to determine the status and score of deployments within the set of expert integrated systems . Analytic content data store is considered as a layer that includes data an or logic for handling different error messages message IDs deployment IDs and pipes that determine the overall status and health of deployments.

Detailed steps that are executed to arrive at a holistic score for the deployment will be discussed in more detail below. At a high level the following data set is collected in the analytics platform running in the management layer i statistics from virtual machines current status like CPU Memory I O Transfer Rates disk usage etc. ii logs from the management layer for deployments including placement of servers audit UI user interface servers asynchronous jobs virtualization APIs etc. and iii logs from the deployment patterns including application specific logs from deployments for example application server logs from a conventional virtual machine application pattern .

By default there are algorithms built to identify the score based on the following criteria i each deployment is identified with a deployment pattern that is hosted in it along with the list of Virtual Machines participating in the deployment and ii score for each deployment is evaluated based on a errors and or warnings found in the deployment and management logs and b Virtual Machine status such as ON OFF status. A lower score for deployment means a healthier deployment of the virtual application pattern in that deployment.

As shown in flowchart explains high level steps that are followed to i collect analytics inputs management nodes which collectively control multiple deployments and multiple patterns within each deployment ii perform analytics processing on the analytics inputs to generate analytics outputs which represent meaningful performance for evaluating the performance of deployments patterns and or individual VMs and iii display the analytics output to a human user in human readable form and format this last step is called deployment visibility . More specifically process flow among and between the various steps S S S S S S S is shown in with each block in the flow chart explaining its associated step or action. Block is set forth to explain that in this method embodiment step S is performed by pipe analytics.

In this embodiment the analytic content store is an extensible pipe programming model based analytics platform that can let customers define a custom way of defining a score. Extensible pipe programming model based analytics sometimes herein referred to more simply as pipe analytics is based on a pipes programming model. The present technology introduces a concept termed herein as a pipe. A pipe as described herein represents a logical construct that includes search data manupulation scoring and visualization instructions defined within a supporting programming scripting language syntax e.g. Python though many others are possible . Note the term Python may be subject to trademark rights in various jurisdictions throughout the world and are used here only in reference to the products or services properly denominated by the marks to the extent that such trademark rights may exist. A pipes programming model provides an architecture that defines and executes a pipe with a sequential search modification cleansing of searched data and visualization of the data using a single thread request response paradigm. As such the pipes programming model provides compartmentalized processing of several analytical operations on data and the return of results of the analytical operations using a single hypertext transfer protocol HTTP request a single HTTP thread of operation at an HTTP server and a single HTTP response from the server by the single server HTTP thread. A piped HTTP request represents an HTTP request that includes encapsulates scripted code that is requested to be executed against a data set by the HTTP server under the single thread of operation. The execution of the scripting language may be performed in a native scripting language runtime associated with the scripted code by the single thread of operation. A piped HTTP response as described herein represents an HTTP request that includes encapsulates the results of execution of scripted code returned by the single HTTP thread that are created in response to receipt of the piped HTTP request. The scripted code may include scripted syntax executable to perform search functions data manipulation functions and data visualization functions. As such the pipes programming model described herein provides a comprehensive solution to data analytics that may improve data analysis for data sets including large distributed search clusters.

The analytics processing described above leads to various forms of analytics output such as health ratings and usage ratings. In this embodiment these analytics outputs are displayed to human users in human understandable form as shown in screenshots and respectively of . Screenshots and form an example of deployment visibility. 

More specifically screenshot shows deployment health on a pattern by pattern basis for a single deployment where i the cross hatch pattern of the various patterns indicates their relative health levels and ii the area of each rectangle for each respective pattern indicates that pattern s usage level. This view gives overall deployment health across deployments supported by Expert Integrated Systems. A score based on errors warnings and status of the VM determines whether individual deployments are Active With Warnings or With Errors. In other words screenshot is a view of multiple deployments arranged by score and evaluated status like Active Warnings Errors for individual deployments.

Screenshot drills down a level to show the various VMs VMs A to E in this example that are co operatively working on a single pattern. The relative area of the rectangles respectively representing each VM indicates the average percentage of a metric being measured. For example a 10 to 20 average CPU usage of a VM reflects a smaller area and a different color as opposed to 90 to 100 usage of CPU with a bigger area and an eye catching color to indicate the potentially abnormal behaviour. In screenshot the cross hatch pattern corresponds to VM usage with high usage often be indicative of an operational issue or problem. A deployment consists of individual virtual patterns and VM images that constitute a deployment. In screenshot cross cloud visibility architecture allows drill down of individual deployment view of all the virtual machines participating.

Screenshots and drill down yet another level to show metrics and or statistics relating to the operational performance of a single VM in this example VM D . In this example the statistics are given as graphs spanning a period of about a week but non graphical information displays and or other time scales are also possible additionally or alternatively.

Some embodiments of the present disclosure may have one or more of the following features characteristics and or advantages i multiple deployments with virtual application patterns analysis based on scoring ii virtual application deployment alerts across different deployments within a cloud group iii clustered data analytics across expert integrated cloud hosting systems using a common subnet iv architecture and method to gather and analyze VM data of a cloud deployment or expert system v unique visualization s to get insight into the pattern of VM visualization and or vi method for scoring multiple deployments within a cluster of expert integrated system.

In some embodiments of the present invention other screenshots representing other forms of deployment visibility are possible. For example there may be i human readable alerts specific to a problem deployment based on the information analyzed across different logs for the deployment ii an SNMP trap or events specific to identification of cross deployment alert situations iii email and or instant message alerts to human users that indicate pattern and or deployment problems or status updates of interest and or iv alerts and or output sent to external computer based systems and software for more detailed diagnostics and or historical information collection purposes.

Some embodiments of the present invention include one or more of the following features advantages and or characteristics i captures different cloud groups group of virtual application patterns and not confined to single deployment and or single independently addressable network or sub network and or iii applies analytics to virtual application patterns supported within expert integrated systems and cloud groups running these virtual application patterns for the building blocks that form the kernel of the expert integrated systems.

The following paragraphs set forth some Definitions for certain words and or phrases used in this document.

Present invention should not be taken as an absolute indication that the subject matter described by the term present invention is covered by either the claims as they are filed or by the claims that may eventually issue after patent prosecution while the term present invention is used to help the reader to get a general feel for which disclosures herein that are believed as maybe being new this understanding as indicated by use of the term present invention is tentative and provisional and subject to change over the course of patent prosecution as relevant information is developed and as the claims are potentially amended.

and or inclusive or for example A B and or C means that at least one of A or B or C is true and applicable.

Data communication any sort of data communication scheme now known or to be developed in the future including wireless communication wired communication and communication routes that have wireless and wired portions data communication is not necessarily limited to i direct data communication ii indirect data communication and or iii data communication where the format packetization status medium encryption status and or protocol remains constant over the entire course of the data communication.

Software storage device any device or set of devices capable of storing computer code in a manner less transient than a signal in transit.

Tangible medium software storage device any software storage device see Definition above that stores the computer code in and or on a tangible medium.

Non transitory software storage device any software storage device see Definition above that stores the computer code in a non transitory manner.

Computer any device with significant data processing and or machine readable instruction reading capabilities including but not limited to desktop computers mainframe computers laptop computers field programmable gate array fpga based devices smart phones personal digital assistants PDAs body mounted or inserted computers embedded device style computers application specific integrated circuit ASIC based devices.

Subnet includes a subset portion of a larger network or an independent and free standing network a subset may include subnets within it as constituent parts.

Presentation module any set of hardware software and or firmware that can present human understandable data to a human user for example by visual presentation audio presentation tactile presentation etc. for example a presentation module may include a display device and the hardware and software that generates a display for the display device the screenshot of is an example of presentation displayed by a presentation module.

Management module any set of hardware software and or firmware that works with a management layer items and of are an example of an analytics module.

Analytics module any set of hardware software and or firmware that can perform analytics items and of are an example of an analytics module.

