---

title: Renewable bio-based (meth)acrylated monomers as vinyl ester cross-linkers
abstract: Anhydrosugar-based monomers prepared from isosorbide, isomannide, and isoidide and resin systems containing these anhydrosugar-based monomers that are partially to fully bio-based, which may produce materials having properties that meet or exceed the properties of similar petroleum derived vinyl ester resins.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09644059&OS=09644059&RS=09644059
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09644059
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160415
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 237 170 filed May 14 2014 which claims priority to International Application No. PCT US 12 050235 filed Aug. 10 2012 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 521 981 filed Aug. 10 2011 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference as if set forth fully herein.

The invention was made with government support under Cooperative Agreement No. W911NF 0 06 2 0013 awarded by the U.S. Army Research Laboratory. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to bio based monomers derived from non petroleum celluloses or carbohydrates with a core scaffold of isosorbide isomannide or isoidide and their use for producing renewable vinyl resin systems.

Vinyl ester resins are thermosetting polymers that are commonly used in variety of applications ranging from adhesives to the resin matrices for fiber reinforced composites. There are many desirable features for vinyl ester resins such as strength toughness low cost low weight and particular viscosities for processing which are the reasons that vinyl ester resins have such wide acceptance in military and commercial uses.

Viscosity is a key factor for determining the utility of vinyl ester resins because lower viscosity resins are easier to work with and may be prepared using a larger range of methods. Petroleum based vinyl ester resins are typically high molecular weight species that are often an extremely viscous fluids or solids. They require reactive diluents in order to reduce the resin viscosity so that the resins can be processed. Typical reactive diluents such as styrene are generally regarded as Hazardous Air Pollutants HAPs and or Volatile Organic Compounds VOCs whose use is controlled by the Environmental Protection Agency EPA . Large research efforts have been devoted to finding ways to eliminate or reduce the use of these highly hazardous reactive diluents.

Another factor that prevents vinyl ester resins wider commercial use is that they are frequently derived from petroleum products. Petroleum is a commodity with well known price volatility. The environmental costs of using petroleum are also very high.

Vinyl ester resins derived from renewable sources cam reduce dependency on petroleum and have quickly become an imperative for continued use and development of thermosetting polymers and composites. Bio refining of material based on converting biomass into vinyl ester products has been successfully developed. For example bio refining of triglycerides and carbohydrates have produced a wealth of new fine chemicals that are useful for the development of bio based polymers. Fatty acids and triglycerides have also been successfully developed into materials ranging from toughening agents and plasticizers to reactive diluent replacements.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 121 398 Wool et al. discloses functionalized triglycerides derived from plant oil that are polymerizable and their use to produce high modulus polymers. The functionalized triglycerides may be produced via several different chemical synthesis routes. For example epoxidized triglyerides may be produced and converted to resilient rubbers by control of the molecular weight and cross link density. The resultant rubbers can be used as rubber toughening agents in rigid composites. In the examples of this patent acrylated base resins are prepared by reacting the epoxidized triglycerides with acrylic materials such as acrylic acid. The thermosetting resins prepared by this method are said to have properties similar to commercially available bisphenol A vinyl ester resins. Other functionalized triglycerides are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 825 242 and U.S. patent application publication nos. US 2003 0139489 and US 2009 0275715.

Besides triglycerides anhydrosugars derived from cellulose or carbohydrates such as isosorbide isomannide and isoidide have also been explored for use as reactive monomers. These anhydrosugars are useful building blocks because they provide a rigid bicyclic core structure that can be developed into resins. For example anhydrosugar or bis anhydrohexitols have been fashioned into epoxy resins by forming the corresponding glycidyl ethers as described in U.S. Pat. No. 3 041 300 Zech et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 3 272 845 Morrison et al. . U.S. Pat. No. 7 619 056 Jaffe et al. describes a different synthesis process whereby the glycidyl ethers of these anhydrosugars can be obtained and subsequently cured with polyamines to form thermosets.

However anhydrosugars have not been successfully used to produce low viscosity thermosetting vinyl ester resins. Reactive diluents such as styrene are still commonly used for reducing viscosity of these bio based resins. Commercial practice involves reducing the styrene content in the resin to about 33 wt styrene which makes the resin barely acceptable for composite manufacturing applications. In addition reducing the styrene content significantly reduces the toughness of these resins.

Therefore there is a need in the field to provide bio based vinyl ester resins with excellent processabilty acceptable toughness and a reduced dependency on reactive diluents.

In the first aspect the invention is directed to novel anhydrosugar based monomers that are derived from isosorbide isomannide or isoidide. These monomers may be use as low viscosity cross linkers for thermoset resins. These monomers may also be used to produce neat polymer for vinyl ester resins.

In another aspect the invention relates to the use of anhydrosugar based monomers for the preparation of low viscosity vinyl ester resins.

In yet another aspect the invention relates to the use of anhydrosugar based monomers as viscosity modulators and Tg enhancers in vinyl ester resins thereby allowing a reduction in the reactive diluent concentration while maintaining suitable polymer toughness.

For illustrative purposes the principles of the present invention are described by referencing various exemplary embodiments. Although certain embodiments of the invention are specifically described herein one of ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that the same principles are equally applicable to and can be employed in other systems and methods. Before explaining the disclosed embodiments of the present invention in detail it is to be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details of any particular embodiment shown. Additionally the terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Furthermore although certain methods are described with reference to steps that are presented herein in a certain order in many instances these steps may be performed in any order as may be appreciated by one skilled in the art the novel method is therefore not limited to the particular arrangement of steps disclosed herein.

It must be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Furthermore the terms a or an one or more and at least one can be used interchangeably herein. The terms comprising including having and constructed from can also be used interchangeably.

In one aspect the present invention relates to the development of anhydrosugar based monomers for vinyl ester resin systems. The monomers are derived from plant cellulose or carbohydrates which are completely renewable sources. Eight of these monomers derived from isosorbide are shown in as Products 1 2 and Products 4 9. Other monomers are derived from isomannide or isoidide using the same synthetic routes. These monomers may be used as low viscosity cross linkers for thermosetting vinyl ester resins which can replace petroleum based vinyl ester thermosetting resins for nearly all of their applications.

One important feature of these anhydrosugar based monomers is their relatively low molecular weight due to their confined core structure resulting from the limited carbon chain length of these naturally occurring sugars. The low molecular weights of these anhydrosugar based monomers can be used to reduce the overall viscosity of vinyl ester resins containing them which in turn can reduce the dependency on reactive diluents. This has the advantage of reducing the use of reactive diluents yet still producing vinyl ester resins with acceptable toughness and processability.

A number of different synthetic routes may be employed to produce these anhydrosugar based monomers. shows some of the applicable synthetic routes using isosorbide as illustrative example. Similar synthetic routes are available for the other two anhydrosugars isomannide and isoidide. The starting materials isosorbide isomannide or isoidide Known 0 in are industrially refined from naturally occurring sugars by a two step process 1 reducing glucose mannitose or idose respectively and 2 subjecting the reduced glucose mannitose or idose to an acid catalyzed dehydration to produce a fused bicyclic ring system. The anhydrosugars have formulae 

In synthetic route 1 of the anhydrosugars are acrylated to produce an acrylated monomer Products 1 and 1a which are capable of free radical polymerization. Products 1 and 1a have the formulae 

Several exemplary methods may be used to produce Product 1 from anhydrosugars. One method involves acylation of the hydroxyl groups of anhydrosugars using either acryloyl chloride or acryl anhydride and a base catalyst in an aprotic solvent. A second method involves esterification of anhydrosugars using acrylic acid catalyzed using either acidic or basic conditions. A third method involves transesterification of anhydrosugars using methyl acrylate catalyzed by either an acid or base catalyst. The reacting ester can be any combination of a parent acid that is an acrylate and a matching alcohol used to form the ester which is 1 8 carbon atoms in length. The small molecule alcohol of 1 8 carbon atoms is selected since it has a relatively low boiling point and can easily evaporate as the reaction progresses.

Synthetic route 2 of is similar to synthetic route 1 in that the anhydrosugars are functionalized using a variety of different methods to produce a methacrylated derivative Products 2 and 2a which are capable of free radical polymerization. Products 2 and 2a have the formulae 

Several exemplary methods may be used to produce Product 2 from anhydrosugars. One method involves acylation of the hydroxyl groups of anhydrosugars using either methacryloyl chloride or methacryl anhydride catalyzed by a base catalyst in an aprotic solvent. A second method involves esterification of anhydrosugars using methacrylic acid catalyzed by either acidic or basic conditions. A third method involves transesterification of anhydrosugars using methyl methacrylate catalyzed by either an acid or base catalyst. The reacting ester can be any combination of a parent acid that is a methacrylate and a matching alcohol used to form the ester which is 1 8 carbon atoms in length. The small molecule alcohol of 1 8 carbon atoms is selected since it has a relatively low boiling point and can easily evaporate as the reaction progresses.

Synthetic route 3 of produces an intermediate referred to as Product 3 or Known 1. The formula of Product 3 is 

This process is well known in the art as described in for example U.S. Pat. No. 3 041 300 Zech et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 272 845 Morrison et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 7 619 056 Jaffe et al. . Both of Products 4 and 5 are derived from this intermediate Known 1.

In synthetic route 4 of Known 1 is treated with acrylic acid in the presence of a chromium based catalyst such as AMC 2 Aerojet chemicals Rancho Cordova Calif. . The reaction is carried out at 90 105 C. with 2.0 5.0 wt catalyst based on the total weight of the reaction mixture. Alternatively the synthetic route 4 can be carried out using another suitable method. For example reaction of Known 1 with acrylic acid in refluxing acetonitrile catalyzed with 12 25 mol tetrabutylammonium bromide TBAB based on the number of moles of Known 1 will also result in Products 4 and 4a. This reaction can be monitored using acid number titrations until the desired acid number AN is reached and the reaction is complete. Another synthetic route for Products 4 and 4a is by a reaction between Known 0 of and glycidyl acrylate. Products 4 and 4a have the formulae 

In synthetic route 5 of Known 1 is treated with methacrylic acid in the presence of a chromium based catalyst such as AMC 2 Aerojet chemicals Rancho Cordova Calif. . The reaction is carried out at 90 105 C. with 2.0 5.0 wt catalyst based on the total weight of the reaction mixture. Alternatively Known 1 may be reacted with methacrylic acid in refluxing acetonitrile catalyzed with 12 25 mol TBAB based on the number of moles of Known 1. The resultant product is also Products 5 and 5a. This reaction can be monitored for completion using acid number titrations. Products 5 and 5a have the formulae 

Both of synthetic routes 4 and 5 open the epoxide rings on Known 1 to produce two free hydroxyl groups. These hydroxyl groups can be further functionalized with a number of different R groups. Examples of such R groups include acrylates methacrylates maleates glycidyl ethers or an alkyl alkenyl or aryl substituent.

Synthetic route 6 of is maleination of Known 0 which results in Product 6. In an exemplary reaction Known 0 and maleic anhydride are melted together to form a homogeneous solution before adding a base catalyst and stirring at 75 95 C. for 2 5 hours. Product 6 can be used as a cross linking agent or it can be used as an intermediate for synthetic routes 7 and 8. Product 6 has the formula 

Synthetic routes 7 and 8 in are analogous reactions wherein the treatment of Product 6 with a glycidyl vinyl ester such as glycidyl acrylate or glycidyl methacrylate produces Products 7 and 8 respectively. Use of the AMC 2 catalyst in 0.5 3.0 wt based on the total reaction mixture at low temperatures results in the formation of the desired product in excellent yields.

Alternatively synthetic routes 7 and 8 can be carried out by TBAB catalyzed refluxing in acetonitrile. Reaction of Product 6 with a glycidyl vinyl ester such as glycidyl acrylate or glycidyl methacrylate in refluxing acetonitrile catalyzed with 2.5 20 mol TBAB based on the number of moles of Product 6 results in Products 7 and 8 respectively. This reaction can be monitored using acid number titrations until the desired acid number is reached and the reaction is complete. Product 7 has the formula 

The reaction of Product 6 with glycidyl vinyl esters results in the opening of an epoxide ring and the formation of two free hydroxyl groups in Products 7 and 8. These hydroxyl groups can be further functionalized with a number of different R groups. Examples of such R groups include acrylates methacrylates maleates glycidyl ethers or an alkyl alkenyl or aryl substituent.

Synthetic route 9 of is the dehydration of Known 0 where Known 0 is dissolved in solvent preferably with a boiling point greater than 100 C. with 5 35 mol based on the starting sugar of acid catalyst and gently heated to between 50 80 C. to distill Product 9. Product 9 has the formula 

The anhydrosugar based monomers of the present invention have been characterized both chemically and physically. Infrared IR spectra for each individual monomer show absorbance peaks in the expected regions for key functional groups. Nuclear Magnetic Resonance H NMR experiments have also been used for structure confirmation. Chemical shifts for H NMR peaks are in agreement for each monomer and appear as expected. Physical properties of these monomers have also been tested and found to have melting points ranging from and exhibited viscosities in the starting at 120 cP to being unmeasurable without the aid or reactive diluent. Overall these anhydrosugar based monomers are low cost have a low viscosity and low volatility and possess multiple polymerizable sites. These monomers are also reactive with other vinyl ester monomers.

The anhydrosugar based monomers of the present invention are ideally suited for use as vinyl ester cross linkers. The anhydrosugar based monomers exhibit suitable viscosities for producing new resins with low viscosity that require a minimal amount of reactive diluent. These anhydrosugar based monomers can partially or completely replace petroleum based cross linkers used in the manufacture of vinyl ester resins. Preferably the anhydrosugar based monomeric cross linkers of the present invention are used as the only vinyl ester cross linkers in the vinyl ester resin systems.

In another aspect of the present invention the anhydrosugar based monomers may be used as viscosity modulators. The anhydrosugar based monomers have a confined core structure resulting from the limited carbon chain length of the naturally occurring sugars from which they are derived. The small core of these anhydrosugar monomers results in relatively low molecular weight anhydrosugar based monomers that can be employed to reduce the overall viscosity of vinyl ester resins because of their low molecular weight in comparison with petroleum based relatively high molecule weight cross linkers. Thus the monomers of the present invention are well suited for modulating the viscosity of vinyl ester resins by varying the amount of anhydrosugar based monomer used in blends with petroleum based high viscosity cross linkers.

In yet another aspect of the present invention the anhydrosugar based monomers may be used as glass transition temperature Tg enhancers in vinyl ester resins to the desired level while also decreasing the viscosity. Because many of the bio based reactive diluents have poor Tg s homopolymers typically have Tg s below 0 C. as compared to styrene the anhydrosugar based monomers of the present invention may be used to raise the Tg s of a resin system using bio based reactive diluents without increasing the overall viscosity. On the other hand the Tg of vinyl ester resins increases as the anhydrosugar based monomer concentration increases. Thus the anhydrosugar based monomers may be used as Tg enhancers for vinyl ester resin systems. The ideal Tg for vinyl ester resins can be varied over a wide range of for example 40 250 C. depending on the intended end use and the temperatures at which the resins will be used. The amount of anhydrosugar based monomer in a particular vinyl ester resin system may be varied in order to achieve the desired Tg for the vinyl ester resin.

In yet another aspect of the present invention the anhydrosugar based monomers may be polymerized with themselves to form novel vinyl ester polymers. In one embodiment a vinyl ester resin system by be made from a single pure anhydrosugar based monomer of present invention. In another embodiment two or more different anhydrosugar based monomers may be polymerized with one another to form vinyl ester co polymers. The anhydrosugar based monomers can be polymerized to form linear branched hyperbranched and cross linked polymers. The neat monomer can be treated with a free radical initiator with or without a promoter in order to induce curing to form the polymers. These polymers have properties comparable to petroleum based vinyl ester derived polymers and exhibit similar stiffness and toughness and can have Tg s ranging from 0 270 C.

A binary resin system may also be formed from one or more anhydrosugar based monomers blended with a reactive diluent to produce vinyl ester resins. In such binary resin systems the compositions will typically contain 50 80 by weight of anhydrosugar based monomers and 2 50 and more preferably 20 50 by weight of reactive diluents with all weights being based on the weight of the product resin mixture. The reactive diluents may be petroleum or bio based. These resins have been found to have a very low viscosities ranging from 5.0 110 000 cP which would make them ideal for liquid molding composite layups and vacuum assisted resin transfer molding VARTM processing as well as a wide range of other applications.

In general compositions may include 1 100 by weight of anhydrosugar based vinyl ester monomers 0 99 by weight of reactive diluent such as the reactive diluents described herein with all weights being based on the total weight of the resin product.

The binary resin systems may be cured using a free radical initiator in the presence or absence of a promoter to produce bio derived co polymers that have similar properties to polymeric materials produced from petroleum products. These polymers possess stiffness and toughness equivalent to petroleum derived vinyl ester resins with Tg s ranging from 45 235 C.

Exemplary reactive diluents suitable for use in the present invention are petroleum based and bio based compounds with a single polymerizable site. Suitable petroleum based reactive diluents include but are not limited to styrene 2 hydroxymethacrylate methyl methacrylate methyl acrylate aryl methacrylates aryl acylates aliphatic methacrylates aliphatic acrylates. Suitable bio based reactive diluents include but are not limited to furfuryl methacrylate tetrahydrofurfuryl methacrylate furfuryl acrylate tetrahydrofurfuryl acrylate furioc acid glycidyl methacrylate FA GM furioc acid glycidyl acrylate and methacyrlated lauric acid methacrylated octanoic acid methacrylated fatty acids and acrylated fatty acids.

A ternary resin system may also be formed by blending one or more anhydrosugar based monomers with vinyl ester resins and reactive diluents. Ternary compositions will typically include up to 60 more preferably 5 15 by weight of reactive diluent s and 40 99 more preferably 85 95 by weight of vinyl ester cross linker monomers wherein the composition of the cross linker monomers is 15 99 by weight anhydrosugar based monomers and 1 70 by weight of vinyl ester resin and or unsaturated polyester monomer more preferably 15 70 by weight anhydrosugar based monomers and 30 70 by weight of vinyl ester resin and or unsaturated polyester monomer with the all weights being based on the weight of the product resin mixture. The unsaturated polyester monomer may be made from one or more of the following components phthalic acid terephthalic acid m phthalic acid suberic acid adipic acid succinic acid maleic acid fumaric acid butylene glycol propylene glycol and ethylene glycol but is not limited to unsaturated polyesters made therefrom.

Other exemplary compositions comprise 5 95 by weight by weight of anhydrosugar based monomers 5 65 by weight of vinyl ester resin monomer and or unsaturated polyester monomer and 0 50 by weight of at least one reactive diluent or 15 90 by weight of anhydrosugar based monomers 10 55 by weight of vinyl ester resin monomer and or unsaturated polyester monomer and 0 45 by weight of at least one reactive diluent. The vinyl ester resin is preferably a petroleum based vinyl ester.

The vinyl ester resins of the present invention are used as monomers and include but are not limited to commercial vinyl esters which are vinyl esters that are commercially available and which may be derived from any source. A broad range of commercial vinyl esters are suitable for use in the ternary resin systems of the present invention. Some examples of suitable vinyl esters are methacrylated acrylated glycidyl ethers of bisphenols and novolac vinyl esters. Suitable bisphenols include bisphenol A hexafluorobisphenol A bisphenol E bisphenol F tetramethyl bisphenol E tetramethyl bisphenol F bisphenol M bisphenol C bisphenol P and bisphenol Z. Methacrylates and acrylates of ethoxylated bisphenols may also be employed as well as methacrylates of acrylates of epoxy products.

Vinyl esters with vinyl functionality greater than two may also be employed. Examples include acrylic and alkyl acrylic vinyl esters of epoxy novolacs and acrylates of tris hydroxyphenylmethane glycidyl ether THPM GE ethoxy phenol novolacs and ethoxylated tris hydroxyphenylmethane. In addition brominated versions of the above systems such as brominated bisphenol A based vinyl esters may be employed. The preferred vinyl esters for use in the ternary systems of the present invention are the bisphenol vinyl esters due to the desirability of making structural composites from the resultant polymers.

In a ternary resin system the anhydrosugar based monomers of the present invention can be added to enhance the Tg of certain resins and or to adjust the resin viscosity to improve the flow characteristics. The addition of the anhydrosugar based monomers also increases the sustainability of the resins and reduces the reliance on reactive diluents such as styrene while maintaining or improving on the properties of petroleum based resins. Use of the anhydrosugar based monomers in varying concentrations in relation to the petroleum based vinyl ester and reactive diluents components can allow for the tailoring of the resin properties for specific applications and the tailoring of the properties of polymeric materials that result from these resins.

The resins containing the anhydrosugar based monomers can be cured using any method that makes use of free radically initiated reactive curing systems including but not limited to thermal cure room temperature cure electron beam cure and ultraviolet cure.

The anhydrosugar based monomers can be polymerized to form linear branched hyperbranched and cross linked polymers for a wide array of applications including biosensors rheology modifiers biomaterials and polymerizable surfactants for media encapsulation. The anhydrosugar based monomers can also be used for the production of polymer matrix composites which are used in military automotive recreational and marine applications. Exemplary products that may be made from these polymer matrix composites include body panels and armor for vehicles composite hoods and boat hull structures. In addition these polymer matrix composites can be used with traditional thermosetting vinyl and polyester resins as a gel coating material to provide a protective coating for composites and other surfaces.

The use of anhydrosugar based monomers as vinyl ester cross linkers Tg enhancers and viscosity modulators has been tested experimentally and found to be successful. Thermosetting liquid molding resins using anhydrosugar based monomers to replace some or all of the petroleum based vinyl ester or unsaturated polyester resin cross linkers blended with common reactive diluents have also been found to have acceptable resin viscosities and polymer mechanical properties similar to those of commercially available petroleum based vinyl ester styrene polymers.

The following examples are shown using isosorbide as the starting point of the synthesis of the anhydrosugar based monomers. The isosorbide may be substituted with either isomannide or isoidide without any affect on the outcome of the reaction yielding similar resin systems that result in comparable polymer systems.

Stoichiometric amounts of isosorbide and triethyl amine were dissolved into dichloromethane and cooled to 0 C. before slowly adding dropwise 2 2.5 molar equivalents of acryloyl chloride or methacryoyl chloride. The reaction mixture was slowly warmed to between 21 30 C. and stirred for an additional 15 24 hours. This reaction was quenched with a saturated solution of sodium bicarbonate and then stirred vigorously for 20 45 minutes before partitioning the layers. The organic solution was sequentially washed with aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate water and aqueous saturated sodium chloride dried over MgSOand the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The product was a pale yellow to light brown oil. H NMR analysis showed that the degree of meth acrylation was 1.8 2.0 meth acrylate groups per molecule.

Stoichiometric amounts of isosorbide and triethyl amine were dissolved into dichloromethane before adding a catalytic amount of dimethylaminopyridine 2.0 10.0 mol and cooling to 0 C. Once the reaction mixture reached the desired temperature 2 2.5 molar equivalents of acrylic anhydride or methacrylic anhydride were slowly added dropwise. The reaction mixture was slowly warmed to between 21 30 C. and stirred for an additional 15 24 hours. This reaction was quenched with a saturated solution of sodium bicarbonate and then stirred vigorously for 20 45 minutes before partitioning the layers. The organic solution was sequentially washed with aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate 1 M hydrochloric acid water and aqueous saturated sodium chloride dried over MgSOand the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The product was a clear colorless to pale yellow oil. H NMR analysis showed that the degree of meth acrylation was 1.8 2.0 meth acrylate groups per molecule.

Isosorbide was melted at 68 C. before adding hydroquinone 0.2 mol and 2.0 2.5 molar equivalents of acrylic acid or methacrylic acid. After the addition of a catalytic amount of acid such as p toluenesulfonic acid 0.5 2.5 wt the reaction temperature was raised to 130 145 C. and the progress followed by acid number titrations. After 18 36 hours the reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and dissolved in ethyl acetate. The organic solution was washed sequentially with aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate water and aqueous sodium chloride and dried over MgSO. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the product appeared as a pale yellow to light brown oil. H NMR analysis showed that the degree of meth acrylation was 1.7 2.0 meth acrylate groups per molecule.

Isosorbide and 2 2.5 molar equivalents of either methyl acrylate or methyl methacrylate were melted together at 68 C. before adding a free radical inhibitor 0.1 mol of hydroquinone and a catalytic amount of acid such as p toluenesulfonic acid 1.0 3.5 mol . The temperature was raised to and maintained at 85 C. for 5 10 hours or until the reaction was complete. The product s appearance varied from a light to dark brown oil. H NMR analysis showed that the degree of meth acrylation was 1.5 1.8 meth acrylate groups per molecule.

Isosorbide was heated at 60 C. until a homogeneous melt was formed before adding epichlorohydrin 2.0 4.0 molar equivalents and stirring at 100 C. for 4 6 hours. 50 aqueous sodium hydroxide 2.0 4.0 molar equivalents was added to the pale yellow reaction mixture and the reaction mixture was stirred for an additional 3 5 hours. The sodium chloride byproduct that precipitated out of solution formed a thick paste which was separated by filtration. The remaining yellow liquid was dissolved in diethyl ether and the organic solution washed with water dried over MgSOand condensed under reduced pressure to yield the product as a pale yellow oil. H NMR analysis showed signals in the expected ranges. In addition epoxide titrations completed in accordance with ASTM 1652 04 showed that the resulting structures possessed 1.4 1.9 epoxy groups per molecule. This example produced Known 1 shown in .

A stirred solution of Known 1 and either acrylic acid or methacrylic acid 2.0 2.5 molar equivalents with a catalytic amount of AMC 2 Aerojet chemicals 2.5 10 mole based on Known 1 was heated to 100 C. for 2 5 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature. The resulting blue green product was characterized by H NMR. Analysis showed that there were 1.8 2.0 meth acrylate groups per molecule.

Known 1 and either acrylic acid or methacrylic acid 2.0 2.2 mole equivalents were dissolved in acetonitrile and refluxed with a catalytic amount of tetrabutylammonium bromide TBAB 5 20 mole based on isosorbide for 3 8 hours. The reaction progress was followed by acid number titrations. The reaction mixture was then cooled and the acetonitrile removed under reduced pressure. The resulting oil was dissolved in ethyl acetate and the organic solution was washed sequentially with water aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate and aqueous saturated sodium chloride dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The product appeared as a light yellow to light brown oil. H NMR analysis showed that there were 1.75 1.9 meth acrylate groups per molecule.

Known 0 and either glycidyl acrylate or glycidyl methacrylate 2.0 2.2 mole equivalents were mixed together and gently heated to 45 65 C before adding Tin II fluoride SnF 2 6 wt . The reaction was stirred for 12 24 hours and over the course of the reaction the solid Known 0 became soluble and a homogenous solution was formed. At the end of the reaction the Tin II fluoride was allowed to settle to the bottom of the reaction vessel and the resin was separated by decantation. The product appeared as a colorless to pale yellow tacky viscous gel. H NMR analysis showed 1.85 2.0 glycidyl meth acrylate groups per molecule.

Isosorbide and hydroquinone 0.1 wt based on isosorbide were heated to 70 C. until a homogeneous melt was formed. Freshly pulverized maleic anhydride 2 2.5 molar equivalents was slowly added portionwise to this bright yellow solution. The reaction mixture was allowed to melt and homogenize over a period of 15 35 minutes. The reaction temperature was raised to 87 95 C. and dimethylbenzyl amine DMBA 1.0 wt based on isosorbide catalyst was slowly added dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred vigorously for 2 5 hours while maintaining the reaction temperature between 87 95 C. At the conclusion on the reaction the product was cooled to room temperature and appeared as a viscous hard yellow gel. H NMR analysis showed that there were 1.8 2.0 maleate groups per molecule.

Product 6 was softened at 70 C. before adding glycidyl acrylate or glycidyl methacrylate 2.0 2.02 molar equivalents and a catalytic amount of AMC 2 Aerojet chemicals 2.5 10 mole based on the moles of Product 6 . The temperature was maintained at 70 C. for 4 6 hours before allowing the reaction to cool to room temperature. The resulting emerald colored viscous gel was characterized by H NMR and found to have 1.9 2.0 glycidyl meth acrylate groups per molecule.

Product 6 and either glycidyl acrylate or glycidyl methacrylate 2.0 2.2 mole equivalents were dissolved in acetonitrile and refluxed with a catalytic amount of tetrabutylammonium bromide TBAB 5 20 mole based on isosorbide for 3 8 hours. The progress of the reaction was followed by acid number titrations. The reaction mixture was then cooled and the acetonitrile removed under reduced pressure. The resulting oil was dissolved in ethyl acetate and the organic solution was washed sequentially with water aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate and aqueous saturated sodium chloride and dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The product appeared as a light yellow to light brown oil. H NMR analysis showed 1.7 2.0 glycidyl meth acrylate groups per molecule.

Neat monomer with a chemical structure similar to a vinyl ester i.e. Product 2 was free radically polymerized by the addition of 0.375 wt Cobalt Naphthanate CoNap and 1.5 wt Trigonox 239 A Trigonox . The neat resin was purged with nitrogen prior to the addition of initiator and promoter for approximately 15 minutes to prevent oxygen inhibition during curing. The purged resin mixture with added initiator and promoter were poured into a silicone mold and allowed to cure at room temperature inside an oven with a constant low flow of nitrogen to avert oxygen inhibition.

Neat monomer with chemical structure similar to polyester resin i.e. Product 8 was free radically polymerized with the addition of 0.375 wt Cobalt Naphthanate CoNap and 1.5 wt methyl ethyl ketone peroxide MEKP . The neat resin was purged with nitrogen prior to the addition of initiator and promoter for approximately 15 minutes to prevent oxygen inhibition during curing. The purged resin mixture with added initiator and promoter were poured into a silicone mold and allowed to cure at room temperature inside an oven with a constant low flow of nitrogen to avert oxygen inhibition.

The rheological and thermomechanical properties of Product 2 were tested as a neat monomer. Product 2 exhibited a Newtonian viscosity of approximately 120 cP at 25 C. Following curing by the procedure described in Example 12 the cured monomer was free radically polymerized at room temperature and post cured at 180 C. for 2 hours. Dynamic Mechanical Analysis DMA showed a Tg of approximately 250 C. and a storage modulus of 2 900 MPa at 25 C.

A partial bio based monomer blend was formulated in a ratio of 35 65 wt of styrene as a reactive diluent to Product 2 as a cross linker respectively. The formulated monomer blend had a Newtonian viscosity of 5 cP at 25 C. Following curing by the procedure described in Example 12 the cured monomer blend was free radically polymerized at room temperature and post cured at 190 C. for 2 hours. DMA results showed a Tg of approximately 212 C. and a storage modulus of 3 234 MPa at 25 C.

A partial bio based three component monomer blend was formulated in a ratio of 10 80 10 wt of Product 2 methacrylated epoxy RDX 26936 RDX as a vinyl ester resin mixture and styrene as a reactive diluent respectively. The formulated monomer blend had a Newtonian viscosity of 8 981 cP at 25 C. Following curing by the procedure described in example 12 the cured monomer blend was free radically polymerized at room temperature and post cured at 190 C. for 2 hours. DMA results showed a Tg of approximately 145 C. and a storage modulus of 2 893 MPa at 25 C.

A partial bio based three component monomer blend was formulated in a ratio of 50 40 10 wt of Product 2 RDX as a vinyl ester resin mixture and styrene as a reactive diluent respectively. The formulated three component monomer blend had a Newtonian viscosity of 480 cP at 25 C. Following curing by the method described in example 12 the cured monomer blend was free radically polymerized at room temperature and post cured at 200 C. for 2 hours. DMA results showed a Tg of approximately 169 C. and a storage modulus of 2 893 MPa at 25 C.

A partial bio based three component monomer blend was formulated in a ratio of 80 10 10 wt of Product 2 RDX as a vinyl ester resin mixture and styrene as a reactive diluent respectively. The formulated three component monomer blend had a Newtonian viscosity of 68 cP at 25 C. Following curing by the method described in example 12 the cured monomer blend was free radically polymerized at room temperature and post cured at 190 C. for 2 hours. DMA results showed a Tg of approximately 244 C. and a storage modulus of 3 352 MPa at 25 C.

A bio based monomer blend was formulated in a ratio of 35 65 wt of furfuryl methacrylate as a reactive diluent to Product 2 as a cross linker respectively. The formulated monomer blend had a Newtonian viscosity of 16 cP at 25 C. Following curing by the method described in example 12 the cured monomer blend was free radically polymerized at room temperature and post cured at 145 C. for 2 hours. DMA results showed a Tg of approximately 122 C. and a storage modulus of 3 421 MPa at 25 C.

A bio based three component monomer blend was formulated in a ratio of 10 80 10 wt of Product 2 RDX as a vinyl ester resin mixture and furfuryl methacrylate as a reactive diluent respectively. The formulated three component monomer blend had a Newtonian viscosity of 22 830 cP at 25 C. Following curing by the procedure described in example 12 the cured monomer blend was free radically polymerized at room temperature and post cured at 170 C. for 2 hours. DMA results showed a Tg of approximately 128 C. and a storage modulus of 3 404 MPa at 25 C.

A bio based vinyl ester ternary monomer system was formulated in a ratio of 50 40 10 wt of Product 2 RDX as a vinyl ester resin mixture and furfuryl methacrylate respectively. The formulated monomer blend had a Newtonian viscosity of 701 cP at 25 C. Following curing by the procedure described in example 12 the cured bio based three component monomer blend was free radically polymerized at room temperature and post cured at 195 C. for 2 hours. DMA results showed a Tg of approximately 157 C. and a storage modulus of 3 525 MPa at 25 C.

A bio based vinyl ester three component monomer blend was formulated in a ratio of 80 10 10 wt of Product 2 RDX as a vinyl ester resin mixture and furfuryl methacrylate respectively. The formulated three component monomer blend had a Newtonian viscosity of 92 cP at 25 C. Following curing by the procedure described in example 12 the cured bio based three component monomer blend was free radically polymerized at room temperature and post cured at 190 C. for 2 hours. DMA results showed a Tg of approximately 263 C. and a storage modulus of 3 455 MPa at 25 C.

A bio based two component monomer blend was formulated in a ratio of 35 65 wt of methacrylated lauric acid MLau to Product 2 respectively. The formulated monomer blend had a Newtonian viscosity of 73 cP. Following curing by the method described in example 12 the cured bio based two component monomer blend was free radically polymerized at room temperature and post cured at 110 C. for 2 hours. DMA results showed a Tg of approximately 107 C. and a storage modulus of 2 220 MPa at 25 C.

A bio based vinyl ester three component monomer blend was formulated in a ratio of 10 80 10 wt of Product 2 RDX as a vinyl ester resin mixture and MLau respectively. The formulated three component monomer blend had a Newtonian viscosity of 58 995 cP at 25 C. Following curing by the procedure described in example 12 the cured bio based three component monomer blend was free radically polymerized at room temperature and post cured at 160 C. for 2 hours. DMA results showed a Tg of approximately 169 C. and a storage modulus of 3 322 MPa at 25 C.

A bio based vinyl ester three component monomer blend was formulated in a ratio of 50 40 10 wt of Product 2 RDX as a vinyl ester resin mixture and MLau respectively. The formulated three component monomer blend had a Newtonian viscosity of 1 445 cP at 25 C. Following curing by the procedure described in example 12 the cured bio based three component monomer blend was free radically polymerized at room temperature and post cured at 180 C. for 2 hours. DMA results showed a Tg of approximately 165 C. and a storage modulus of 3 206 MPa at 25 C.

A bio based vinyl ester three component monomer blend was formulated in a ratio of 80 10 10 wt of Product 2 RDX as a vinyl ester resin mixture and MLau respectively. The formulated three component monomer blend had a Newtonian viscosity of 153 cP at 25 C. Following curing by the procedure described in example 12 the cured bio based three component monomer blend was free radically polymerized at room temperature and post cured at 125 C. for 2 hours. DMA results showed a Tg of 193 C. and a storage modulus of 2 927 MPa at 25 C.

The rheological and thermomechanical properties of Product 8 were tested as a neat monomer. Product 8 had a Newtonian viscosity approximately 620 125 cP at 25 C. Following curing by the procedure described in example 13 the neat monomer was free radically polymerized at room temperature and post cured at 110 C. for 2 hours. DMA results showed a Tg of approximately 90 C. and a storage modulus of 3 073 MPa at 25 C.

A partial bio based monomer blend was formulated in a ratio of 35 65 wt of styrene as a reactive diluent to Product 8 as a cross linker respectively. The formulated monomer blend had a Newtonian viscosity of 172 cP at 25 C. Following curing by the procedure described in example 13 the cured monomer blend was free radically polymerized at room temperature and post cured at 110 C. for 2 hours. DMA results showed a Tg of approximately 130 C. and a storage modulus of 3 293 MPa at 25 C.

A partial bio based three component monomer blend was formulated in a ratio of 80 10 10 wt of Product 8 RDX as a vinyl ester resin mixture and styrene as a reactive diluent respectively. The formulated three component monomer blend had a Newtonian viscosity of 16 115 cP at 25 C. Following curing by the method described in example 13 the cured monomer blend was free radically polymerized at room temperature and post cured at 110 C. for 2 hours. DMA results showed a Tg of approximately 118 C. and a storage modulus of 3 758 MPa at 25 C.

A partial bio based monomer blend was formulated in a ratio of 35 65 wt of furfuryl methacrylate as a reactive diluent to Product 8 as a cross linker respectively. The formulated monomer blend had a Newtonian viscosity of 2 234 cP at 25 C. Following curing by the procedure described in example 13 the cured monomer blend was free radically polymerized at room temperature and post cured at 110 C. for 2 hours. DMA results showed a Tg of approximately 101 C. and a storage modulus of 3 361 MPa at 25 C.

A bio based three component monomer blend was formulated in a ratio of 80 10 10 wt of Product 8 RDX as a vinyl ester resin mixture and furfuryl methacrylate as a reactive diluent respectively. The formulated three component monomer blend had a Newtonian viscosity of 45 709 cP at 25 C. Following curing by the procedure described in example 13 the cured monomer blend was free radically polymerized at room temperature and post cured at 110 C. for 2 hours. DMA results showed a Tg of approximately 126 C. and a storage modulus of 3 044 MPa at 25 C.

A bio based two component monomer was formulated in a ratio of 35 65 wt of methacrylated lauric acid MLau to Product 8 respectively. The formulated monomer blend had a Newtonian viscosity of 102 351 cP at 25 C. Following curing by the method described in example 13 the cured bio based two component monomer blend was free radically polymerized at room temperature and post cured at 110 C. for 2 hours. DMA results showed a Tg of approximately 50 C. and a storage modulus of 1 648 MPa at 25 C.

A bio based vinyl ester three component monomer blend was formulated in a ratio of 80 10 10 wt Product 8 RDX as a vinyl ester resin mixture and MLau respectively. The formulated three component monomer blend had a Newtonian viscosity of 12 376 cP at 25 C. Following curing by the procedure described in example 13 the cured three component monomer blend was free radically polymerized at room temperature and post cured at 110 C. for 2 hours. DMA results showed a Tg of 87 C. and a storage modulus of 2 916 MPa at 25 C.

A partial bio based monomer blend was formulated in a ratio of 80 20 wt Product 2 as a viscosity modulator to Viapal 450 Unsaturated Polyester Resin UPE as a cross linker respectively. The formulated monomer blend had a Newtonian viscosity of 1 098 cP at 25 C. Following curing by the procedure described in example 13 the cured monomer blend was free radically polymerized at room temperature and post cured at 110 C. for 2 hours. DMA results showed a Tg of approximately 58 C. and a storage modulus of 3 623 MPa at 25 C.

A partial bio based three component monomer blend was formulated in a ratio of 50 40 10 wt of Product 8 UPE as a resin mixture and styrene as a reactive diluent respectively. The formulated three component monomer blend had a Newtonian viscosity of 2 710 cP at 25 C. Following curing by the method described in example 13 the cured monomer blend was free radically polymerized at room temperature and post cured at 110 C. for 2 hours. DMA results showed a Tg of approximately 56 C. and a storage modulus of 2 816 MPa at 25 C.

A partial bio based three component monomer blend was formulated in a ratio of 50 40 10 wt of Product 2 UPE as a resin mixture and furfuryl methacrylate FM as a reactive diluent respectively. The formulated three component monomer blend had a Newtonian viscosity of 700 cP at 25 C. Following curing by the method described in example 13 the cured monomer blend was free radically polymerized at room temperature and post cured at 110 C. for 2 hours. DMA results showed a Tg of approximately 140 C. and a storage modulus of 157 MPa at 25 C.

A partial bio based monomer blend was formulated in a ratio of 50 50 wt of Product 2 as a viscosity modulator to RDX as a cross linker respectively. Following curing by the procedure described in example 13 the cured monomer blend was free radically polymerized at room temperature and post cured at 110 C. for 2 hours. DMA results showed a Tg of approximately 130 C. and a storage modulus of 3200 MPa at 25 C.

A partial bio based monomer blend was formulated in a ratio of 80 20 wt of Product 2 as a viscosity modulator to RDX as a cross linker respectively. Following curing by the procedure described in example 13 the cured monomer blend was free radically polymerized at room temperature and post cured at 110 C. for 2 hours. DMA results showed a Tg of approximately 212 C. and a storage modulus of 3100 MPa at 25 C.

It is to be understood however that even though numerous characteristics and advantages of the present invention have been set forth in the foregoing description together with details of the examples embodiments in this application the disclosure is illustrative only and changes may be made by those sufficed in the art in detail especially in matters of shape size and arrangement of parts within the principles of the invention to the full extent indicated by the broad general meanings of the terms in which the appended claims are expressed. Accordingly departures may be made from such details without departing from the spirit or scope of present invention.

