---

title: Techniques for sharing position data between first and second devices
abstract: A system for exchanging GPS or other position data between wireless devices for purposes of group activities, child location monitoring, work group coordination, dispatching of employees etc. Cell phones and other wireless devices with GPS receivers have loaded therein a Buddy Watch application and a TalkControl application. The Buddy Watch application communicates with the GPS receiver and other wireless devices operated by buddies registered in the users phone as part of buddy groups or individually. GPS position data and historical GPS position data can be exchanged between cell phones of buddies and instant buddies such as tow truck drivers via a buddy watch server. Emergency monitoring services can be set up with notifications to programmable individuals in case an individual does not respond. Positions and tracks can be displayed. TalkControl simplifies and automates the process of joining talk groups for walkie talkie services such as that provided by Nextel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09654921&OS=09654921&RS=09654921
owner: X One, Inc.
number: 09654921
owner_city: Union City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160920
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 805 472 filed Jul. 23 2015 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 479 226 filed Sep. 5 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 188 414 filed Jul. 21 2011 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 831 635 which is a division of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 075 408 filed Mar. 11 2008 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 538 458 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 099 362 filed Apr. 4 2005 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 353 034 . Priority is hereby claimed under 35 U.S.C. 120 or 365 c to each aforementioned application and each such application is incorporated herein by reference.

The cellular market in 2003 was around 150 160 million devices in the US and the number is growing at over 10 per year at least. Europe already has 320 million cell phone users and the global market is over 1.4 billion devices.

Cell phone carriers are looking for opportunities to increase both revenue and profits by providing new services. For example recently cell phones have been provided with browsers to allow surfing the internet from the phone. One of the needs businesses families and individuals have is the need to know where their employees children and friends are. No two way position information sharing technology currently exists as far as the applicant is aware.

The one way location sharing prior art includes On Star and the Mercedes Benz TeleAid services where via GPS receivers and cellular phone capability built into a car an aid center can track cars all over the world and speak with the occupants and sense when the cars airbags have deployed. Other commercial services allow parents to track the locations of their children in a one way location sharing manner. None of these services allow the occupants of the car to know where the aid center is or allows the children to know where their parents are.

Another need is for a system for use by motorists hikers pilots and boatmen to allow them to be able to contact rescuers and know the location of the rescuers as they come to the aid of the stranded person and to allow the rescuers to know the location of the victims they are trying to rescue. The need requires that cell phones have the capability to be reconfigured in the field to add an instant buddy to the list of people with whom location information is shared. The prior art kid tracking systems could not be reconfigured in the field to add new individuals with whom location information was to be shared.

In the prior art one could buy phones that were set up at the manufacturer to enable parents to locate their children. One such service allows up to eight phones to be used and allows parents to monitor the locations of their kids. But these services do not allow the kids see the locations of their parents because the service is not set up to share location information between phones. In other words it is a one way service with the kid s locations being sent to the parents phones for display but not vice versa. Further there is no mechanism to add groups and members of groups and there is no mechanism to set up instant buddies as that term is used below temporary location sharing between phones on an ask and accept basis which automatically expires after a configurable interval terminates . The kid locator phones are set up at the factory and nothing can be changed in the field by the users and they are always on and cannot be disabled.

It is useful to be able to share locations among multiple cell phones which have GPS locator ability. Such an ability would be useful for people in groups who have made plans to meet at specific locations at specific times. When one person is late the others in the group would be able to ascertain the tardy person s location. To alleviate privacy concerns it would be useful to be able to turn off location sharing or to program location sharing so that it turns itself on automatically at some date and time and turns itself off at some other programmable date and time. It would also be useful to have a map display on cell phones which are picture enabled and to plot the locations on the map of persons in a group who have their location sharing capability turned on.

The invention contemplates 2.5 GHz and 3 GHz Java enabled web enabled or similar cell phones and Personal Digital Assistants or other web enabled wireless products with global positioning system GPS receivers and sufficiently large liquid crystal displays for the preferred embodiment. The phones must be web enabled to be able to send and receive TCP IP or other protocol packets over the internet to the Buddy Watch server.

In some embodiments where push to talk enablement is implemented GPS receivers are not necessary in the cell phones but they must be web enabled to be able to send and receive TCP IP or other packets over the internet to the Buddy Watch server.

These phones and other wireless devices are programmed with software programmed at the factory or downloaded from the assignee of the present invention to have the user interface and functionality described herein to allow mutual tracking and optional position mapping displays of members of groups and of instant buddies coming to the rescue of stranded motorists hikers pilots and boatmen. These phones work with a Buddy Watch server coupled to the internet. The server is not limited to any specific language or technology nor is it limited to any specific wired or wireless solution or any particular transmission physical layer or protocol.

The teachings of the invention do not require development of new cell phone or PDA technology nor do they require development of new cellular communication infrastructure. The functionality implemented by the software of the invention utilizes existing platforms and infrastructure. In the preferred embodiment the software of the invention is developed to JAVA specifications.

In its primary mode the process of the invention only allows exchanging and mapping of position data with persons on a Buddy List programmed into a Buddy Watch synonym for Buddy Tracker device defined as any of the devices mentioned anywhere in the specification when programmed to operate in Buddy Watch mode or coupled to another device operating in Buddy Watch mode . The user must allow others on his Buddy Lists to see his location location sharing may be turned off and the user must request to see the location of others on his Buddy Lists to be able to have their positions reported and or mapped. Position information exchanged via radio transmission on the cellular infrastructure is encrypted so that outsiders cannot see or use location information that is transmitted. A simple menu structure allows easy setup and management of Buddy Watch application programs. The keypad of the phone or PDA is used to enter information into the Buddy Watch enabled device. Online help is available to setup and use the Buddy Tracker application program s .

The teachings of the invention can also be integrated into other products and services such as autos with GPS based navigation systems. This would be done by expanding the navigation system to have a cellular transceiver capable of sending and receiving digital data including position data to the Buddy Tracker server. It could also be done by expanding the GPS navigation system product to have a USB or other interface port to couple the system to a cell phone or PDA of the type described above. This interface would allow the GPS navigation system to receive position data from the wireless digital data transceiver and map the position data on the GPS navigation system display of the auto. Handheld GPS navigation devices can also be expanded by integrating a cell phone therein or providing a port to interface to a cell phone to exchange position information with the Buddy Tracker server.

In a system employing the teachings of the invention the users can change things on the fly in the field such as adding groups and members adding instant buddies changing the size of the area in which their buddies can be tracked enabling or disabling the location information sharing function without disabling the phone etc.

Some of the benefits of the Buddy Tracker technology are that it allows businesses to easily identify which service persons are closest to the next job and to let personnel in the field know the positions of their co workers and to share their location with their co workers. Parents can keep track of where their kids are. Friends can keep track of where their buddies are and share their position with their buddies. Location information will be shared only so long as the phone is on and in an area where the device can receive a GPS signal and send the phone s coordinates out on the cellular network and the location sharing capability is enabled .

Further the cellular carriers do not have to invest in engineering or infrastructure to offer the Buddy Watch functionality. The software that implements the Buddy Watch functionality can be downloaded from the web or installed at the point of sale of a cell phone or PDA. Use and sale of an application that makes use of the on board GPS capability of cell phones and PDAs built to comply with the E911 requirement allows the carriers to recoup some of the costs imposed upon them by the E911 requirement.

Enhancements to cellular phones in recent years such as the addition of cameras and web browsers have lost track of one of the basic reasons for cell phones in the first place people want to communicate with and know where other people are. This is applicable to parental monitoring and increasing the efficiency of business and increasing the effectiveness of law enforcement. The Buddy Watch system also functions to decrease the load on the 911 system since not every situation requires the help of 911 authorities.

The Buddy Tracker software creates the displays such as that shown in and other user interface displayed discussed elsewhere herein. is a diagram of the default start screen and some of the other user interface screens that the user can navigate to from the start screen. This is a help emergency screen which has a next command which can be selected to take the user to the 911 screen which can be used to take the user to a screen wherein the user can select the type of help requested. is the help screen and shows how navigation to view a new alarms screen can be accomplished. shows the tree structure of a plurality of other screens which can be used to add target locations annotate the target locations with text voice or photo notes add a text message give commands to take a picture or find a picture file record a voice message to be appended to the target request position updates for all active buddies map the positions of all active buddies or select particular buddies for mapping or requesting a position update. shows a number of screens which can be displayed to map the position of a selected user with history and give information about the user as well as send short text messages record and send voice messages photos Instant Messenger links target positions etc. show user interface screens created by Buddy Tracker software to create settings such as turning bread crumbs on or off security codes for personal bread crumbs tracking and verification that a user is OK set checkup timeout intervals establish phone numbers and email addresses of other users to call in case of emergency in personal bread crumbs mode add change or delete group names set the Mapit screen radius refresh rate and update setting refresh time delta position change for refresh. shows the user interface screens to create a new buddy and shows the communication paths and accept protocol to do this. is discussed more below and is a representation of the screens and protocols to initiate and accept an instant buddy relationship. is a diagram of the user interface screens for defining deleting and using map rooms for closed proximity groups open proximity groups etc. For closed proximity group map rooms listed users can set their preferences to automatically enter or be alerted that they are in the Zone and manually decide to enter. For Open Proximity Group Map Rooms anyone can join by opting in from their phone or from a sponsor s website. Upon entry they can view and be viewed by all other members in the map room. Proximity rooms are useful to find and be found by friends attending an event.

In area discloses that the Buddy Tracker location sharing application software is active and is sharing the location of the phone with other members of a designated group. Area indicates that parental status is active which means that the employer of the employee carrying the phone or the parent of the kid carrying the phone can see the location of the employee or kid if the phone is on. When parental status is active the supervisory function cannot be turned off or evaded. This supervisory location sharing can be hierarchical such that an employer can see the location of all its employees and each of the employees can be set up as supervisor of their children such that the employees can see the locations of their children but the employer of each employee cannot see the locations of the children of each employee. The supervisorial relationships can be set up to define a matrix or web of Buddy List and supervisorial relationships such as is illustrated in .

In phone A has phones C and D on its Buddy List and is set up as the supervisor of those two phones. Phone B has phones A G F and E on its Buddy List and is set up as the supervisor of those phones. Phone H has phones E J and I on its Buddy List and is set up to supervise those. Phone K has phone I on its Buddy List and is set up to supervise phone I.

Each of the phones in and B is coupled to the cellular carrier infrastructure in a conventional manner and can send phone calls or short text messages or email messages to any other phone including the cell phones represented by lettered circles in . is a block diagram of a typical prior art cellular system infrastructure in which the teachings of the invention in a peer to peer embodiment can be practiced. An area of the country is divided into several cells represented by circles such as and . Inside each cell is a transceiver tower represented by blocks and which carries out time division multiple access or code division multiple access digital radio communications with cell phones in its cell. The cell phones or PDAs are represented by autos and . Data recovered from the cell phone transmissions is transmitted to a central switching system by data paths such as and . The central switching system is coupled to a public service telephone network .

Transmissions from one cell phone to another take place via the towers such as and and the central switching system . For example suppose cell phone wants to send its GPS location data to cell phone and cell phone wants to send its GPS location data to cell phone . The system of the invention uses some communication protocol such as XML modified short text messages or other methods to send GPS location information to all cell phones on a Watch list. XML is a slimmed down version of SGML and enables Web authors to create their own tags so that they can more accurately capture the structure of their data. Because this structure can be read by SML com pliant browsers the information encoded in these tags can be made available to programs such as Java applets or it can be displayed by formatting the XML tags with a style sheet.

In the preferred embodiment the wireless devices in a group which has location tracking turned on periodically send their GPS position data to all the other members in the group. The process for each wireless device to send its position data to any other wireless device in the group is as shown in . Basically is a flow chart of the process of two or more cell phones exchanging encrypted GPS position data. discussed below is a flowchart of another embodiment of a process to receive and process Buddy location update requests. The process of starts at step with a request for a position update. In the preferred embodiment this happens when a user of a Buddy Tracker phone uses his phone to make a request for a location update. In other embodiments location updates can be requested automatically and periodically by the Buddy Tracker software on a device that is reporting its position. In other embodiments a position update can be automatically generated by a device which is reporting its position to other members of a group whenever the position of the device has changed from its last reported position by a programmable amount. The requested position update may be sent to everybody on a selected Buddy List or just a single person s wireless device. In some embodiments the position update is sent to some subset of persons on a selected Buddy List. Step represents the process of looking up the addresses for all people on the selected Buddy List a watch list or just a selected individual or a subset of individuals from a watch list as the case may be. Some embodiments may be limited to position updates on entire Buddy Lists.

Step represents the process of reading the GPS position data from the built in GPS receiver of the phone or the GPS receiver of the navigation system and encrypting the position data.

In step cell phone puts its encrypted GPS location data into a message according to the chosen communication protocol assume short text message SMS for short and addresses the message packets to the one or more phones of the selected persons with which position information is to be shared.

In step the SMS message packets are transmitted to tower using whatever physical layer protocol the cellular system uses such as TDMA or CDMA. The header of the SMS packets contains data indicating the payload data is to be sent to the Buddy Watch software of a particular cell phone and not to the inbox of the phone s SMS software. The payload data of these packets is the encrypted GPS position data. The physical layer protocol typically involves the following steps. First the packets are disassembled into groups of bits of some predetermined size called codewords the size of which depends upon the particular configuration of the forward error correction software. The codewords are then interleaved to help defeat burst errors. Each codeword can then be encoded with error detection and correction bits such as by using Reed Solomon encoding. The codewords are then broken down into groups of bits called constellation points. The number of bits in each group depends upon the type of modulation scheme in use. In some embodiments the groups of bits are then further encoded in a Trellis encoder.

The encrypted GPS position data packets would be addressed such that they would be routed in the cellular system to all the other wireless devices using the Buddy Tracker software which requested a position update. This is done by routing the packets to the cell transceivers in the cells in which the wireless devices which require updates are currently registered as represented by step . For example if cell phone in is on the Watch list or is being automatically updated or has requested a position update manually it will have transmitted a packet to transceiver indicating it needs a position update and when the wireless device entered cell it will have exchanged packets with transceiver to achieve synchronization with transceiver and to register in cell . Each wireless device that is registered in a cell will have done this and the transceivers in each cell will communicate with the central switching system to indicate which wireless devices are registered in their cells. Therefore the routers in central switching system will know which wireless devices are registered in each cell and will know which wireless devices are to receive position updates. Step represents the process of receiving the signals from each wireless device that are modulated with constellation points that contain the data of packets that contain GPS positions recovering the data from the constellation points and doing error detection and correction and recovering the GPS position data packets. These packets are then routed to the central switching system which uses the destination addresses in the packets and its routing tables to route them to the transceivers in whatever cell or cells the wireless devices that require position updates are registered. There the packets are disassembled encoded with error correction and detection data and assembled into symbols or constellation points in whatever type modulation QAM QPSK etc. is being used and transmitted to the wireless device. This happens for every wireless device on a watch list or which has requested a position update.

At each wireless device which receives the signals modulated with the constellation points bearing the GPS position data the data of each packet is recovered and the packet is reassembled as symbolized by step . The header data of the packet the port number in the case of TCP IP packets causes the wireless device to pass the packet to the Buddy Tracker software which is monitoring a particular port step . When a packet is passed to that port or just the payload data thereof the payload data is decrypted and the position data recovered step . Step also represents the process of reading the header data of the incoming packets and determining which other member of a buddy group sent the position update so that the position information for the proper member of the Buddy Group is displayed. The position data is then used to display the position of the other party in the group who sent the packet and if the user gives the Mapit command the position data will be converted to a waypoint on a displayed map so as to graphically display the position of the wireless device which sent the packet.

Step represents the process of the device which received the position update encrypting its own GPS position into short message or email packets addressed to the other members of a Buddy Watch group or to a single other wireless device. These packets are then sent to all the other wireless devices by the same process described in steps and of as represented by step .

In some embodiments when a wireless device requests an update from another wireless device and the other wireless device is out of cellular coverage a timeout occurs. When a timeout occurs without receiving a position update the wireless device expecting the update changes its display to yellow or some other color for the wireless device which is out of coverage. The Buddy Watch system only works when the phone is on and in a cellular coverage area.

1 Disable The Buddy Watch application can be disabled by the user. When disabled the wireless device does not share its GPS position data with any other wireless device so no other buddy can see your position. There is an exception for the parental monitoring function. When parental monitoring is turned on as symbolized by line in the wireless device always shares its GPS position and cannot be disabled. The disable functionality is represented by test in which determines when a position update is requested whether the Buddy Watch function has been turned off. If so processing proceeds to test which determines if parental monitoring is turned on. If not processing proceeds back to step along line and GPS position sharing does not happen. If the Buddy Watch function has not been disabled processing proceeds to step to look up the addresses of the wireless devices to which the position update is to be sent. When the Buddy Watch application is disabled and it has been operating and parental monitoring is not turned on a final position update is sent is sent to those wireless devices on the current Watch List the wireless devices which are active and monitoring each other s positions .

2. Enable This is the normal mode of operation. Buddies can be added or deleted from the Watch List at any time. Any wireless device that is operating and on the Watch List can find the location of any other device on the Watch List by issuing a position update request. If a buddy is removed from a Buddy List he or she is not able to receive position updates. Multiple lists can be joined to form a group.

3. Supervisor Parental Corporate Code In this mode as long as the wireless device of the worker or child is on the supervisor will be able to monitor position by GPS position updates. The worker or child will not be able to disable the Buddy Watch feature nor remove the parent or supervisor from the Watch List. Only the supervisor or parent will have the necessary password to remove himself from a Buddy List or watch list.

4. Buddy Lists This is the normal mode of operation. Buddies can be added or deleted from a list at any time. If a buddy is off a Buddy List he cannot receive position updates from any other wireless device on the list. Multiple Buddy Lists can be joined into a group and entire groups may be enabled and disabled. Workgroup lists are lists of buddies which need to be aware of the location of their coworkers during working hours but not after. Buddy Lists or Buddy Groups are a means to have a single icon folder or some similar graphic user interface GUI mechanism to represent a list of people and enables single commands to turn on or turn off tracking of a group of people. If a folder is used for each Buddy Group a drop down list showing the specific names and locations of each person on the list can be displayed when the folder or icon representing the group is selected. If an icon is used the Buddies would be grouped in and shown on the phone display. Groups receive a color on the GUI and the members of the group are connected by a translucent shaped outline encompassing all the points representing positions on the Mapit display. If the group is spread too far apart to be shown on a single Mapit display then the shaped outline for the group is not shown and on the specific color coded Buddy positions that can be shown are shown. If the Mapit display is zoomed out the translucent group outline returns when all members of the group can be shown on a single screen. Buddies that are in multiple groups are colored a non group color or the color of any of the displayed groups. If groups overlay and when Buddies that are in two active groups are shown the translucent outline shall overlap as needed and only cover Buddies that exist in both lists.

5. Instant Buddies Instant Buddies can be created when a call is placed between two cell phones phone enabled PDAs or other wireless Buddy Watch enabled devices. is a flowchart of the process of establishing an Instant Buddy Relationship. The first step is 132 where the wireless device places or receives a call from a Buddy Watch enabled wireless device to or from another Buddy Watch enabled wireless device. The two users such as a stranded motorist and a tow truck driver discuss the situation and decide to establish an Instant Buddy relationship. After the call is established and the two agree to allow it the two wireless device users can click on the Instant Buddy menu choice in the Buddy Watch menu as symbolized by step . The wireless devices then each display an Instant Buddy Setup screen like that shown in step and fill in the appropriate data fields and in step . Both users then indicate their acceptance field or deny the relationship field or in some embodiments only the recipient of the call needs to accept or deny the relationship. Once the Instant Buddy relationship is accepted the two wireless devices start exchanging position data step . After 24 hours or some other time set in the Instant Buddy preference menu timeout checked in step Instant Buddies are discarded step . The Instant Buddy preference menu allows the time period for the Instant Buddy relationship to be set to something other than the default value of 24 hours.

The Buddy Watch server s main function is to serve maps to the cell phones registered in the Buddy Watch system and implement GPS position data exchanges between itself and the phones on a buddy list to enable members of a buddy list to view the locations of other members of the list. In some embodiments the Buddy Watch server also downloads application software as needed to phones registered in the system as the phones send packets to the Buddy Watch server indicating a particular command has been given which requires an application program on the phone which is not present.

In the preferred embodiment the Buddy Watch server runs all the application programs on the server and just sends pages to be displayed on the phone to solicit the user to enter data needed to implement a function.

If the phones had as much memory as the Personal Digital Assistants the application programs could be loaded and run on the phones themselves.

Other functions of the Buddy Watch server are setup of user profiles billing and database access and maintenance.

The functions of the Buddy Watch server will be made clear in discussions which follow. But one of its functions will be to manage activate and deactivate codes. The Buddy Watch application will be a service which a cellular carrier offers on a subscription basis. When a subscriber buys a Buddy Watch enabled phone he will be issued an activation code and the Buddy Watch server will also be given the activation code. This activation code will be kept in active status as long as the subscriber has paid for the service. Subsequent communications of packet data between the Buddy Watch server and the phone such as downstream position updates of positions of buddies on a Buddy List receipt of phone position for use in updating other buddies on a Buddy List etc. will only be enabled as long as the activation code is in active status. When the subscriber stops paying for the service the activation code will be changed to a deactivation code status and subsequent communication between the phone and the Buddy Watch server will be impossible. The Buddy Watch server implements this functionality by checking the activation code status each time before communication with a phone is carried out.

The Buddy Watch application is downloaded via the internet for subscribers who do not already have it on their phones. The customer receives an activate code to key into the phone or an activation application on the Buddy Watch server receives confirmation of the purchase and automatically sends the activate code to the phone Personal Digital Assistant and receives back a confirmation. Each month payment for the service is required. Failure to make the payment results in an application receiving a request to deactivate the Buddy Watch application on the phone PDA. A deactivate code is sent and a response is received back confirming the phone application has been deactivated. Further attempts to use the application are met with a simple display indicating the service subscription has expired.

The protocol to activate and deactivate the Buddy Watch application is secure in the preferred embodiment.

1 An initiator selects the Instant Buddy menu choice options in step . This is done by selecting menu option of screen in . This causes a transition to display screen on the initiator s device where the user selects menu option . This causes a transition to screen on which is the Instant Buddy setup screen. This screen shows the initiator s phone number Instant Buddy ID and Screen ID in auto filled fields and respectively step . There is also a timeout field which the initiator can set to some time if the default time of midnight is not acceptable step . After filling in the timeout value the Initiator clicks Next in field . 2 Instant Buddy request packets are generated and sent to the cell transceiver of whatever cell the wireless device of the initiator is registered. These packets contain data which identifies the initiator and the recipient proposed Instant Buddy and are addressed to the IP address of the Buddy Watch server in . The packets are recovered by the cell transceiver sent to the central switching system and routed from there to gateway where they are routed over wide area network to the Buddy Watch server step . 3 Buddy Watch server authenticates the initiator and the recipient from data in the packet as a Buddy Watch subscribers. If either is not a Buddy Watch subscriber the server blocks the transaction by not forwarding the packets to the recipient. Assuming both are subscribers the server forwards the Instant Buddy request packets to the recipient s wireless device and these packets get routed in the cell system step via the gateway central switching system and cell transceiver of the cell in which the recipient s wireless device is registered. 4 The proposed Instant Buddy s wireless device receives the packets and displays an Instant Buddy Request screen step like that shown at in step . This screen shows the phone number Instant Buddy ID and Screen ID of the Initiator so the recipient knows who has requested the Instant Buddy relationship. The recipient can either accept or deny the relationship using commands displayed at and . 5 If the Instant Buddy relationship is accepted step processing proceeds to step where an accepted packet is sent back to the initiator s wireless device. If the Instant Buddy relationship is denied step sends a denied packet back to the Initiator device and the process is over step save for a display on the Initiator device that the Instant Buddy relationship has been denied. 6 When the accepted packet arrives at the Initiator device the device shows an Instant Buddy accepted screen as shown at in step . This screen shows the phone number Instant Buddy ID and Screen ID of the recipient and provides commands to accept or cancel the relationship at fields and . 7 If the Initiator accepts the Instant Buddy relationship step step occurs where an accepted packet is sent back to the Recipient through the Buddy Watch server. 8 The Buddy Watch server records the existence of the new Instant Buddy relationship step and both wireless devices start sending their GPS position data in packets addressed to the Buddy Watch server. The Buddy Watch server stores the position data from each wireless device and forwards the packets to the other device for updating of their displays. In the preferred embodiment the Buddy Watch server pulls an appropriate map from the MapQuest server in based upon the GPS position data of the Initiator and sends that map and the GPS position data in packets addressed to the Recipient. The Buddy Watch server then pulls an appropriate map from the MapQuest server based upon the Recipient s position and sends that map and the Recipient s GPS position to the Initiator. Each wireless device then displays the position of the other Instant Buddy on the map provided by the Buddy Watch server.

2 After agreeing to establish an Instant Buddy relationship the initiator clicks on the Instant Buddy menu option 

3 This causes an Instant Buddy Setup screen to be shown on the initiator s device which has a first field which is auto filled with the initiator s phone number a second field which is auto filled with an Instant Buddy ID and a third field which is auto filled with a Screen ID for the Instant Buddy this screen ID is a three digit number which will be displayed with the position of the Instant Buddy and is shorter than the Instant Buddy ID 4 The initiator fills in a timeout period for the Instant Buddy relationship or accepts the default value of midnight and clicks a Next command 5 The recipient s wireless device receives the instant buddy request and displays an Instant Buddy Request screen that shows the initiator s phone number Instant Buddy ID and Screen ID and displays an accept or deny command 6 The recipient either accepts or denies the Instant Buddy relationship 7 If the recipient accepts the Instant Buddy relationship this fact is communicated to the initiator s wireless device which then displays a screen which displays the recipient s phone number and the recipient s Instant Buddy ID and his or her Screen ID and displays an accept or deny command which the initiator can click on 8 If the initiator selects the accept command both wireless devices start exchanging GPS position data but they do not if the initiator decides to deny the Instant Buddy relationship.

The Buddy Tracker software also has the ability to set up instant buddies with for example tow truck drivers. Display area shows an instant buddy entry for an instant buddy named Inst01. For example the user s car breaks down. The user calls a towing service and finds out the tow truck driver has a cell phone with Buddy Tracker on it. The user dials the tow truck driver s cell phone and requests to be an instant buddy of the tow truck driver s phone. His phone is then set up as an instant buddy on the user s phone. After both phones are set up as instant buddies each phone shows the location of the other phone on its moving map. This allows the tow truck driver to find the user tow truck customer and the user customer to know where the tow truck driver is.

The Mapit function shown at in is a function that can be invoked to map the location of Tracie Saka on the phone s display. If Tracie is within range and the Mapit function is clicked a display such as the one shown in is rendered on the phone s display showing the general area and showing Tracie s position at with a text box superimposed on the map with Tracie s name rendered therein.

In other embodiments a particular position such as the phones current position or a position selected by moving crosshairs on a map display on a phone can be sent as a meeting place to all buddies on a Buddy List. When such a command is given and a Buddy List is selected the position of the meeting place and the designated Buddy List is put into packets addressed to the Buddy Watch server and transmitted thereto where the information is stored. The meeting position is then packetized in packets addressed to all the buddies of the designated Buddy List and those packets are addressed to the phones of the buddies on the designated Buddy List and sent thereto.

Referring to there is shown a display of a screen showing positions and status of members of a selected group. In this example Tracie and Karen s positions are known and their name boxes in the left column are displayed in some color such as green indicating they are within cellular coverage and their positions are known. On the other hand Dean s name box is shown in some other distinctive color such as yellow represented by single cross hatch to indicate contact with Dean has been lost. This happens when a user travels outside cellular coverage. Because Dean s name box is currently selected by the cursor the settings column has the last known information about Dean also displayed in the distinctive color and represented by a single cross hatch. These boxes show Dean s last known position fix time box his full name box his last known distance box and his last known direction latitude longitude and speed boxes and respectively .

An instant buddy relationship also allows the location of the motorist lost or injured hiker or other user to appear on the tow truck or ambulance driver s cell phone Mapit display.

Alternative Instant Buddy Setup Process To set up an instant buddy relationship the phone is given a command to display an instant buddy setup screen like that shown in . The display of is used to establish an instant buddy ID in box give the instant buddy a caller ID in box the instant buddy s caller ID or phone number is used by default . Box is used to establish a timeout period at the end of which the instant buddy relationship is automatically terminated. The timeout period can be set to any interval in some embodiments or to some selected interval from a drop down menu. Box is used to establish the carrier the instant buddy is using. A cancel command is shown at and a request command is shown at .

To start the instant buddy relationship the request command is issued after the other boxes are filled in. Typically a stranded motorist or hiker will call a tow truck or 911 and get the caller ID and carrier of the tow truck driver or rescuer. The stranded motorist or hiker will then enter this information in boxes and . Box shows an instant buddy ID which is automatically assigned by the system. After entering the information the request command shown at is selected. The screen of the rescuer s phone will then change to the display shown in . The information the requester filled in on the screen will appear in boxes and on the stranded motorist or hiker s phone as well as on the instant buddy s phone the tow truck or 911 rescuer . Commands for Denied and Accepted will also appear at and of the instant buddy s phone. If the instant buddy desires to accept the instant buddy relationship he or she selects the accept command and the tracking of the two instant buddies positions will begin. Upon acceptance of the instant buddy relationship each instant buddy s phone displays changes to the display shown in from which the Mapit or Mapit with history command can be issued.

Corporations that wish to monitor the locations of their employees can use the system of the invention by using a corporate passcode. In this mode of operations corporate employees are set up as a group with their supervisor as one member of the group. Each employee in the group can have his own buddies but he cannot delete the supervisor from the group. Only the supervisor can delete himself from the group of each employee s phone since only the supervisor has the passcode to change the group s members to delete himself. In one embodiment the location information sharing is unidirectional from employees to supervisor but each employee can see the location of other employees on their phones but not the location of the supervisor. In this embodiment the location sharing can be configured to be on only during working hours Monday to Friday. In other embodiments the employees can see the locations of the supervisor as well as the locations of the other employees.

The teachings of the invention contemplate doing position updates periodically at configurable intervals as well as a configuration option to do periodic updates as well as an update every x miles if a buddy in a group being monitored moves more than x miles between periodic updates. In some embodiments the velocity at which a Buddy is moving or the amount of distance since the last update a Buddy has moved controls the frequency of the updates. Timed updates are handy for parents to monitor the positions of their children to make sure they do not move more than X miles from their home base. Position updates can be requested by a member of a Buddy List for position updates from the Buddy Watch server. The server receives positions reports from all the Buddy Watch phones registered with it and stores them and knows the Buddy Lists for each phone. When a request for a position update is received positions of all the buddies on Buddy Lists of which that phone is a part will be transmitted as packets addressed to all the phones on all the Buddy Lists of which the requester is a part. In alternative embodiments the position updates will be sent for all members of all Buddy Lists of which the requesting phone is a part but will only be sent to the requesting phone to avoid excess network traffic. In other alternative embodiments the requesting phone can designate a particular member of a particular Buddy List and request an update only for the position of the designated buddy. The position update will be sent only to the requesting phone.

In some applications such as construction sites with large construction crews and one supervisor it is useful for everybody working on the job to be able to find the supervisor but the supervisor does not care where anybody else is. In embodiments with this capability the supervisor turns on the Follow Me mode typically making a menu selection. This causes the supervisor s position to be reported to the Buddy Watch server on a regular basis in packets that have information in their headers or elsewhere which indicate they are Follow Me packets and which designates to which Buddy List this information is pertinent. The Buddy Watch server takes these position updates and packetizes them into packets addressed to each of the phones on the designated Buddy List and sends those packets to the Buddy List phones. Position updates from the phones on the Buddy List are not sent to the supervisor phone or any of the other phones on the Buddy List.

This Follow Me mode can also be done in a blind code mode. This means that the supervisor does not need to list everyone on his buddy list. This is an open channel mode. Any follower who wants to track the position of the supervisor only needs to list the supervisor s name and phone number on a buddy list of the follower phone. The supervisor enters a blind code in the Follow Me mode and this code is published to all phones that have Buddy Watch software. This blind code entry and publication allows any follower to enter the blind code in a buddy list on the follower phone and thereafter to receive the supervisor s position reports. This entry of the blind code will give any follower the ability to receive position reports from the supervisor s phone and the supervisor will not have to approve each buddy individually. This can be a great convenience since on some job sites there may be hundreds or thousands of workers. The follower phone sends a packet to the Buddy Watch server telling it that the follower phone is in the Follow Me mode for the particular supervisor. This causes the Buddy Watch server to send position reports it receives from the supervisor phone to the follower phone but the server does not send position reports from the follower phone to the supervisor phone. The follower phone does not send position reports to the Buddy Watch server when in the Follow Me mode. Disabling removing or changing the blind code stops Follow Me mode.

The Buddies only mode differs from the All On Follow Me mode and the Blind Code Buddies modes in that position reports are only received from Buddies on a specifically named Buddy List with specifically named Buddies. No blind code Buddies or Instant Buddy position reports can be received in this mode.

This mode is useful for parents to monitor the travels of their children. In this mode the child s phone periodically reports the child s position and the parent can have the position reports sent to his phone or computer in some embodiments . In some embodiments position alert data can be configured to send an alarm signal to a parent if a child s position gets too close to a specified location or too far from the home location or some other location.

This mode allows a specific user to request an update on the position of a specific Buddy. The requesting phone sends a request packet to the Buddy Watch server identifying itself and requesting a position update on a specified Buddy. The Buddy phone need not do anything other than do its normal operation of sending position updates to the Buddy Watch server. The update request causes the Buddy Watch server to provide a two way update so that the requesting phone s location is sent by the Buddy Watch server to the Buddy phone and the Buddy phone s location is sent by the Buddy Watch server to the requesting phone. If the requester is part of a group then the Buddy phone s location is sent to all phones in the group.

In this mode periodic updates from the phone of a person such as a child or other person being cared for can be periodically sent to a list of parental or other supervisor destinations such as the parent s cell phone or email address. The sender phone may also be configured to send its location periodically to all others on a list. Updates on position can be every 15 minutes or some other configurable interval. In addition each supervisorial user can request an update and the updates will be sent to every phone on the supervisorial list. If a phone on the list is not available the update will indicate that no update is available change the display to yellow and the status to unavailable but keep displaying the last way point.

This is an emergency feature which allows tracking down children or elderly people who are no longer responding to inquiries sent to their phone. This mode is useful for children who do not want to be watched but want a safety line to their friends and family in case something happens. A user who wishes to use this feature sets up their profile such that the Buddy Watch server checks in with them via their Buddy Watch enabled phone on a daily basis to determine if all is OK. The user must enter their secret code to confirm that all is OK. The phone prompts them to enter this code and a certain number of prompts can be ignored before the system raises any alarms.

Step represents the process of monitoring the timer for a timeout event. This may take the form of a hardware or software interrupt. When a timeout occurs the Buddy Watch server sends an inquiry to the phone inquiring if the user is OK step . The phone then displays the Are you OK message and the user either enters his or her secret code to say they are OK or does not. If the user does not respond processing proceeds back to step to start the timer again as the user may simply be busy have their phone off be asleep etc. However after a configurable number of attempts to establish contact with no response step will conclude that the user may be in trouble and need rescue. In that case processing is vectored by step to step . In step the phone is commanded by the Buddy Watch server to send distress messages out to predetermined phone numbers five in the preferred embodiment and or email addresses. The voice mail message may indicate to check email for details. The email contains a content of a position report file that contains all the waypoints since the last OK was received. If there are no stored waypoints at least one set of stored waypoints previously recorded are sent. The waypoints all provide latitude longitude date and time of recording.

4 the text of an email to describe the emergency situation to readers which should include the mobile phone number home phone number work phone number home address and other pertinent information and

In an alternative embodiment step represents the Buddy Watch server itself sending out the distress messages. In some embodiments the distress messages are prerecorded voicemail messages which indicate the user may be in trouble and giving instructions to the recipient how to retrieve the position reports from the Buddy Watch server. Step also represents the process of the phone sending its GPS position waypoints to the Buddy Watch server. In some embodiments the prerecorded voicemails are sent to pre determined phone numbers and the predetermined emails are sent to predetermined email addresses and include the GPS position reports in the text of the message. The email messages at least will include the personal breadcrumb position reports. These messages indicate to the recipients that there may be trouble and that they should start looking for the person who owns the phone.

The Buddy Watch server is configured and programmed to be compatible with business applications where the customer may desire to find individuals based upon their capabilities certifications or the equipment they are carrying. By making the Buddy Watch fields of the Buddy Watch database available for search and or integration into other business databases a company such as a service based organization can determine which individuals have the proper certification to work on a specific problem and or who have the appropriate tools and where those individuals are located relative to a site to which the company wishes them to be dispatched. The Buddy Watch server is programmed to provide information about the subscribers and their locations in a format which is compatible with the other business database structures of customers who are interested in having this data. Each position update received by the Buddy Watch server then is exported and automatically updates the customer database. This can be done over the Internet or over a dedicated local area or wide area network.

The radar inclusion mode is a mode which allows police departments or fire departments or any other emergency response type organizations to instantly expand their buddy lists to predetermined lists of all available personnel. This is useful when it is necessary to know the whereabouts of persons to assist in an emergency situation or other situation. This feature may be used by police or other groups where the formation of a group may vary throughout the day. This feature can be used in conjunction with standard groups. How this feature differs is that a user does not need to be identified and only when the user comes within the radar range or radius does the user get included within the radar inclusion group.

City County State or Federal law enforcement or other agencies can offer two capabilities with radar inclusion. The first capability is to send an alert with a fixed target or to add a moving target to any individuals or groups without any input from the field officers. The target could be a suspect on the move. The target affords all the officers a better view of what is going on. The second capability allows the agency using the radar inclusion feature to light up the positions of other individuals or groups of individuals on a Mapit display so that one or more officers firemen responding to an emergency can see the positions of possible reinforcements relative to their position. This is useful when groups that normally do not work together such as perhaps the fire and police need to work together. Details about each Buddy which is lit up on the Mapit display can be sent to any other Buddy in need thereof by a command to the Buddy Watch server issued by the controlling personnel of the agency.

In the instant messaging protocol packets transmitted from a phone to the Buddy Watch server there is a field that can be left blank or a prefix can be put in. An agency using radar inclusion can put a code in this field and then all Buddy Watch phones PDAs operating in radar inclusion mode are sent these packets and retain the Buddy whose information is in the packets in a group. This new group can be retained for a user programmable time up to 24 hours beyond the radar inclusion Buddy display disappearing.

The Buddy Watch server determines if a matching radar code is in range of a user and is not currently part of their active buddy list. If not they are added if the radar inclusion mode is active.

When a member of a group specified by a Buddy in that group for Mapit display is outside the radius set up in a Group Map Size configuration entry then that member is split from the group and will not appear on the map of the group. However that member which has been split from the group will have an entry in a distinctive color such as dark green on the list of active users in the group. Changing the Group Map Size configuration entry to a larger size may allow the split member to be displayed. If the location of the split member must be viewed but the Group Map Size is not to be changed clicking on the member of the group which has been split from the Buddy List will cause the Mapit display to change to the locale of the split member and display the member s location on the map so long as the split member s Buddy Watch status is active.

When the phone is turned off or the Buddy Tracker application is disabled a final transmission to the Buddy Watch server of the location of the Buddy is made. The Buddy Watch server distributes this location in packets addressed to all the members of the group of the Buddy who just went to inactive status.

The Buddy Tracker software allows targets to be designated to specify meeting points sites of emergencies or service call locations. Law enforcement agencies can use this feature to silently redirect personnel to the site of a crime or emergency without broadcasting the location on the radio for persons using police scanners to hear. Each target can have a user defined label associated with it and a message photo s or other document s can be attached to the target. All the data defining the target any label associated therewith and any photos or other documents is packetized in packets identifying the data therein as target data or attachments to the target. These packets are received by the Buddy Watch server and re packetized addressed to all members of a group or a radar inclusion group or specific Buddies.

A target can be specified by any member of a group or by a dispatcher of a law enforcement or other agency. Targets can be specified using a web browser. The target is a forward looking waypoint. This can be useful if groups are to meet at a predefined location and the first to arrive may find this is either not the right location or for some reason the meeting point should be changed. The target can be moved and then packets containing the data of the new target location are sent by the Buddy Watch server to all members of the group with an alert message indicating the target has moved. Targets can be moved simply by dragging and dropping the target to a new location on the display on the web browser which is logged into the Buddy Watch server and which has invoked the target specification command. Once the target has been initially set moving it to a new location creates a waypoint history. Each target can have a description associated with it and if the target has been moved the history can be viewed.

When devices are out of cellular coverage some limited operations are still possible based on the device. For devices with a full GPS receiver the user can set targets or force waypoints that are stored. Each device may differ based on the amount of available memory.

If a Buddy takes his phone into areas of intermittent coverage it offers a means of some contact. Additionally one may visit a site on a rural road or other location out of coverage. Setting a target or forcing a waypoint from a phone or desktop computer which is not located at the target provides the location but does not provide any idea regarding what is at the location. A picture phone at the location can capture a picture of the location and this picture be associated with the target to give other Buddies in the group some idea of what to expect when they get to a meeting point or target.

When a user wants to return to the site the saved target can be recalled and sent to other Buddies in a group or individually designated so a return trip can be planned. This provides the ability to return to spots not located on roads or at intersections such as pastoral settings.

Local maps when out of coverage would not show up on the user s phone when the Mapit command is issued. This is because the map pixels are sent from the Buddy Watch server to the phone after being retrieved from a mapping server such as Yahoo maps. When the phone is out of coverage the map pixel packets cannot reach the phone and it cannot render a map. However if the phone has a GPS receiver it can store the point the user indicated he would like to capture and later when the phone is back in coverage it can send the GPS location to the Buddy Watch server in a Mapit command packet and get the map pixels back from the Buddy Watch server along with any attachments.

Phones with limited memory will decrease the frequency of position updates so as to not exceed the memory capacity.

Attachments such as photos can be appended to targets and waypoints even with travelling outside a coverage area. Once the phone is back in coverage the attachment to a waypoint for example will be sent to the Buddy Watch server and can be distributed to other users. Documents created with phone apps or pictures captured by the phone s built in camera can be attached and if the phone has a USB port pictures captured by a digital camera or camcorder can be imported and attached.

The Buddy Watch software application is disabled and encrypted when it is downloaded to prevent other unauthorized users from installing and using it. The Buddy Watch application program is decrypted and enabled when the access code is downloaded after a subscription is purchased since the decryption key is or is part of or is encoded into the access code.

Access codes to enable the Buddy Watch application are designed to incorporate the phone number or phone serial number as part of the encryption key so that the access code can only enable one phone. Large groups with many phones can ask for and receive access codes that allow operation across a large number of phones.

Access codes are downloaded to the phone from the cell provider s server or emailed to the user when the user provides their name phone number phone serial number and a form of payment. The application may be downloaded to a MAC or PC and then configured on the personal computer before being uploaded to the phone by a computer to phone USB connection.

A member of a buddy group can market a target on a Mapit display and that target location can be shared to all the members of the group and show up on their Mapit displays so they all know where to meet. Marking targets is done using cursors on the Mapit display on the phone. The user then designates the buddy list to which the marked target is to be published. Packets are generated in the Buddy Watch application on the phone which include the GPS location any name assigned to the target and the identification of the buddy list to which the location is to be published. These packets are sent to the Buddy Watch server which then extracts the data and packetizes it into packets addressed to all the phones on the designated buddy list. These packets are then sent to the buddies on the list and the location of the target is extracted and posted on a Mapit display.

The users can mark particular waypoints as they travel using the Mapit displays on their phones and pictures or memos can be attached to these waypoints. In one embodiment this is done by sending a packet with the location marked by the user to the Buddy Watch server and in that packet giving an identifier or pointer that will be contained in other packets which record the memo or photo to be attached to the waypoint. The Buddy Watch server then extracts the data from these packets and stores the user waypoint location with a pointer to the file in which the memo or photo is stored.

Each user of Buddy Watch can define a profile of buddies to which an SOS alert is to be sent in the case of emergency. The SOS alert message includes location time and phone number caller ID and a preset message for email or Instant Message service and a prerecorded voice message. This data is sent in packets addressed to the Buddy Watch server when the user gives a command to send the SOS message. The Buddy Watch server then receives the SOS message determines who it is from retrieves the SOS profile stored on the server for that user and generates packets for email and IM and sends them on the internet and generates packets containing the digitized voice message and addresses them to the phones listed in the SOS profile and sends those packets to the cellular system central switching system in via internet gateway .

The SOS message protocol can be carried out by the Buddy Watch server either on demand from the user or automatically in conjunction with any 911 call made from a phone which has a stored SOS profile. The SOS support configuration file contains data which defines which way the phone will act and the buddies receiving the SOS messages will be aware of whether an 911 call was made or not. The buddies are actually in a better condition to help the caller since they can see the caller s position on their Mapit displays and they may be closer to the caller and be able to act quicker than the 911 support personnel.

The preferred embodiment causes the SOS messages to be sent when the user dials 911 . A 411 dialed call will send the SOS messages to only active buddies whose phones are registered in the system and on with Buddy Watch activated.

All species within the genus of user interfaces according to the teachings of the invention will display buddy lists and a list of buddies on each buddy list when that buddy list is selected. All species will display the specific information about a buddy when a particular buddy is selected including at least their current location and the time of the fix. All species will display a command or icon or menu choice that can be invoked to allow a user to turn off location sharing. All species will display commands icons or menu choices to add delete or edit buddy lists or to add or delete or edit buddies.

Some species within this genus will also display one or more of the following items of information about individual buddies speed last contact altitude or direction. Some species within the genus will provide icons menu choices etc. which a user can invoke to allow the user to select a map display with the location of a buddy displayed thereon. Some species within the genus will allow a user to give a command to request historical fixes which trace a path to the buddy s current position. Some species within the genus will allow instant buddy relationships to be set up to allow location sharing between a person in trouble and a rescuer.

1. either store map data for entire geographical areas that they serve or to obtain pertinent map data from another server such as a Mapquest server and pick the appropriate maplet that surrounds the positions of buddies to be displayed and serve the maplet data to Buddy Watch enabled phones 2. pick the appropriate maplet for each buddy list or buddy based upon the center of gravity of the buddy positions of the buddies within the selected buddy list and exclude buddies which are out of the coverage area 3. render buddy locations on maplets based upon GPS location data gathered from Buddy Watch applications running on GPS enabled cell phones and PDAs 4. store user defined data that embodies each user s buddy lists and buddies and configuration data 5. store at least some preference data that defines who can use the server e.g. only those with a valid Buddy Watch user ID and password 6. request and receive update and regularly scheduled GPS location data from users who have their Buddy Watch application turned on their phones or PDAs and to distribute location data and maplets to the phones and PDAs of the buddies on buddy lists who have their Buddy Watch capability turned on and 7. turn Buddy Watch functionality on or off in terms of receiving location data from users who have indicated they want their Buddy Watch application turned off and turn off sharing location data of buddies who have turned off their Buddy Watch application.

Various species within this genus can calculate the center of gravity of the best fit for the maximum number of buddies that are within the coverage of one maplet determine the proper maplet size to send to the client phone or PDA based upon configuration data which defines the screen size of the device send the same size maplet to all clients allow each client to determine its own maplet size send maplets with buddies color coded to show who is out of bounds and who is in lost contact status implement a permissive buddy list wherein a person cannot be added to a buddy list until they consent implement timed updates for GPS position and scheduled cutoff times for position sharing store auxiliary information about each buddy such as phone numbers etc. offer the functionality to allow each user to specify the maplet size they receive or specify a maximum maplet size for a buddy list offer the functionality to request updates whenever a programmable delta time or delta position difference over the last update occurs offer a user preference to turn on or turn off GPS position updates the ability to cross communicate with other carrier s cellular systems to send maplets to and receive location data from users on other systems function to enable or disable the Buddy Watch application without disabling location sharing with parental or supervisor units storing as a preference or configuration data SOS emails and voicemail messages which can be sent out to email addresses and or phone numbers specified in a configuration data file on demand or automatically when a 911 call is made.

The client Buddy Watch application and phone or PDA platform genus collectively provide the following functionality 

1. the programmed phone or PDA must be able to retrieve GPS position data directly or indirectly from a GPs receiver in the phone or PDA and it should be able to wirelessly send the GPS position data to the Buddy Watch server either periodically or on demand from the server but one or another it must be able to exchange position information data with the server 2. the phone or PDA must have a display large enough to display maplets and be able to download maplets from the Buddy Watch server 3. it must have Java or similar software to exchange digital data with the Buddy Watch server using a wireless web application program 4. it must be able to communicate with the phone s application programmatic interface and any application programmatic interface of the cell phone service provider to 

An important species with this genus will be able to request software needed to execute commands given by the user from the Buddy Watch server receive a download of the software requested install it into random access memory and execute it to carry out the requested command. In other species the software Apparatus and Process are to simplify Push to Talk walkie talkie operations in cell phones.

SBC component functions to do buddy group list management mapping techniques refresh based upon time or delta movement geo coding reverse geo coding routing etc.

CMC block functions to provide local content to location based services. The content can be local maps or commercial enterprise specific content. Multiple parties like commercial content providers government establishments or enterprises will provide the content. This CMC component will provide a common API to extract content from multiple providers and provide the flexibility to choose any content provider based upon parameters such as accuracy availability of content rates whether the content is the latest etc.

The SRC block is a software rendering component which provides multiple channel and device rendering mobile application provisioning service creation environment OSS BSS integration in both pre paid and post paid modes usage analysis reports and SNMP based system management software.

Individual services block provides tools and generic components to build individual applications in consumer and enterprise domains. Consumer services like child tracking buddy location location based advertisements for target user groups can be built. Enterprise services such as work force management fleet tracking emergency services etc. can use the generic components.

Although the invention has been disclosed in terms of the preferred and alternative embodiments disclosed herein those skilled in the art will appreciate possible alternative embodiments and other modifications to the teachings disclosed herein which do not depart from the spirit and scope of the invention. All such alternative embodiments and other modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the claims appended hereto.

