---

title: Retractable stair system with precision elevation control
abstract: A retractable stair system for vehicles. The apparatus includes stairs which are retractable into a frame, or extendable to provide a set of stairs with relatively uniform height therebetween. Indexing plates with locking notches and companion latches with latch tongues to fit in the notches enable adjustment of the height of a top step S in a set of steps in an extensible-retractable stairs assembly. Extensible legs are provided which are individually vertically adjustable to provide secure engagement with an uneven substrate such as rocky ground or a sloping surface. Foot pads are pivotally attached to the extensible legs. The combination of vertical adjustability, the selection of a desired number of stairs, and individual top stair height adjustability, make the unit adaptable for use in a variety of vehicles.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09527448&OS=09527448&RS=09527448
owner: TORKLIFT INTERNATIONAL INC.
number: 09527448
owner_city: Kent
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160508
---
This application claims priority from prior U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 62 246 601 filed Oct. 26 2015 entitled RETRACTABLE STAIR SYSTEM FOR VEHICLE the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety including the specification drawing and claims by this reference.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The patent owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

This disclosure relates to retractable stairs and in particular to stairs configured for use with driven or towed vehicles such as trucks trailers including semi trailer truck tractor units or other over the road rigs or specific purpose vehicles such as earth movers or large dump trucks campers on pickup trucks towed camper doorways motor homes or the like.

A continuing need exists for improvements in stair systems for use in accessing a variety of driven or towed vehicles. Often vehicles of various types park at locations where an entrance door or platform is at a level above the ground where ease and or safety of access to the vehicle may be facilitated by the availability of a stair system. Further quite often a vehicle is parked over sloping or uneven ground so placement of legs on the ground for support or stability is often problematic in prior art designs of which I am aware. A wide variety of stair structures have been known and utilized as appropriate for various applications. And although many of such prior art stair structures have been constructed which in some limited fashion enable a user to effect or provide some adjustment in the stairs at least in the case of campers used on pickup trucks adjustment is generally only with respect to extension from the camper. Thus often a separate stool block of wood or other structure is necessary for placement on the ground in order to provide reasonable height for users to access existing stairs to a camper.

A common problem encountered in prior art stair systems is that when operating on uneven ground such structures are often not uniformly adjustable often are not even variably adjustable to provide a secure final level platform near the ground. Thus such prior art stair structures inevitably leave a gap of a few inches between a desirable stair platform height and the actual stair platform height which may be achieved. Also it is often rather difficult to achieve a quick adjustment in any of the available stair designs. Often the result is a vehicle located a particular site such as a campsite or jobsite with an entrance exit stairs platform which does not provide adequate safety in terms of providing an even distance between stairs vertically or with respect to providing stable contact with the ground below.

Thus there remains a continuing unmet need for a retractable stairs system for a vehicle in which the total stair height is adjustable and in which stable ground contact is provided via support pads with individually adjustable heights between the stairs and the support pads on opposing sides of the stairs.

An objective of our invention is to provide a design for a retractable stair system in which a varying number of steps may be provided.

Another objective of our invention is to provide a design for a retractable stair system in which the support pad distance below the bottom step is individually adjustable at either side of the step.

Another important objective is to provide a retractable stair system which is easily and rapidly adjustable in total stair height yet retains the ability to evenly space the stair steps which are provided.

Another important objective is to provide retractable stair system in which the distance from the top of the stair assembly to the level of the first step is adjustable in selectable increments of height.

A related and important objective is to provide a retractable stair system in which the stairs are sturdy and of high strength.

A related and important objective is to provide a retractable stair system in which the length of support to ground contact pads is quickly adjustable individually on each side of the retractable stair system.

Another important objective is to provide a compact retractable stair system structure and frame design in which the stairs may be easily installed in existing or new vehicles and in which the retractable stairs are neatly and securely stowed when not in use and thus when the vehicle is in service over the road.

Finally another important objective is to provide a high strength retractable stair system which can be conveniently and easily built with conventional manufacturing processes so that manufacturing costs are minimized.

We have now invented a retractable stair system for vehicles which provides for stowage of stairs when not in use and which provides convenient adjustment of the height or level of the first step and then equal spacing between stair steps when the stair system is deployed. This is important since it enhances the safety of access to and from a vehicle e.g. a camper mounted on the back of a pickup truck . Further individually adjustable foot pads enable secure support of the stairs even when the stair system is deployed on uneven ground.

The retractable stair system disclosed herein includes four major components. These major components are a a frame b an extensible retractable scissors stair assembly c a manually adjustable latching system for locking the extensible retractable scissors stair assembly in a particular position and d individually adjustable foot pads. For the latter item in an embodiment a detent system is utilized where a spring loaded pin is adjustably locatable to any one of a plurality of latch hole locations along an extensible support tube so that when a detent is pressed inward an adjustment may be made and when the detent protrudes through a specific latch hole the height of the foot pad is secured at such location. In this manner foot pads at either side of the stairs may be individually adjusted when the retractable stair system is located above uneven ground.

Moreover the retractable stair system with precision elevation control needs no extra parts bolts or other components for on site assembly and deployment. Resultantly the retractable stair system with precision elevation control disclosed herein is easy to use since all necessary components are already on board and readily available.

The foregoing figures being merely exemplary contain various elements that may be present or omitted from a final configuration for an embodiment of a retractable stair system with precision elevation control or that may be implemented in various embodiments described herein for a retractable stair system for a vehicle. Other variations in retractable stair systems for vehicle may use other mechanical structures mechanical arrangements or size and shape of components and yet employ the principles described herein and as generally depicted in the drawing figures provided and as more specifically called out in the claims set forth below. In particular although specific dimensions have been provided in many of the drawing figures such dimension are provided merely to enable those of skill in the art to make and use the claimed invention and there is no intention to limit the claimed invention to such dimensional data which is exemplary rather than mandatory. Thus a retractable stair system with precision elevation control may be provided which is sized up or down from any such dimensions provided without affecting the scope of the appended claims. An attempt has been made to draw the figures in a way that illustrates at least those elements that are significant for an understanding of exemplary retractable stair system with precision elevation control which may be used in various types of vehicles.

It should be understood that various features may be utilized in accord with the teachings hereof as may be useful in different embodiments as useful for various sizes and shapes of retractable stair systems for vehicles depending upon the specific requirements such as typical height of the bottom of a vehicle door above the road within the scope and coverage of the teachings herein as defined by the claims. Further like features in various embodiments for retractable stair systems may be described using like reference numerals or other like references without further mention thereof.

Attention is directed to where rear elevation view of a pickup truck having a camper thereon is provided illustrating the use of an embodiment of a retractable stair system having four stair steps S S S and S respectively is provided mounted thereon. As will be further noted below a retractable stairs system may in various embodiments be provided with a number N of stairs S wherein N is a positive integer. In various embodiments illustrated the number N of stairs S ranges from 2 to 6 inclusive.

As seen in and similar figures of the drawing generally a frame is providing including first and second upper longitudinal members which extend between first and second side plates. Also the frame includes a third lower longitudinally extending member extending between the first and second side plates e.g. see . In some of the drawing figures a two step S S or three step S S S or four step S S S and S configurations are provided for an extensible retractable scissors stairs assembly RSA. As noted above and with configurations as noted for example in four step five step and six step configurations may be utilized. A keeper longitudinal stiffener is provided disposed between a first keeper plate and a second keeper plate . Between a first keeper plate and a first slide plate is located a first indexing plate . Between the second keeper plate and a second side plate is located a second indexing plate . A first latch is provided mounted for pivotable movement to allow releasable locking engagement with the first indexing plate . A second latch is provided mounted for pivotable movement to allow releasable locking engagement with the second indexing plate . A latch longitudinal stiffener runs between the first latch and the second latch see . A keeper longitudinal stiffener runs between the first keeper plate and the second keeper plate see . The entire retractable stair assembly RSA is mounted for pivotable movement between first adaptor bracket and first flat bar arm and between a second adaptor bracket and second flat bar arm see or . The first flat bar arm is pivotably mounted to the first side plate a pivot Pextends through the first keeper plate and the first indexing plate . Likewise the second flat bar arm is pivotably mounted to the second side plate a pivot Pextends through the second keeper plate and the second indexing plate . The first flat bar arm has associated therewith or attached thereto a first guide Gpositioned for arcuate movement in guide track Tof the first side plate . The second flat bar arm has associated therewith or attached thereto a second guide Gattached for arcuate movement in a guide track Tof the second side plate . Note from that the first keeper plate and second keeper plate may each include keeper cutout to allow each of the first keeper plate and the second keeper plate to clear the respective pivots Pand Pwhen the retractable stair system is in a retracted stair stowed configuration as discussed below.

The top stair Sin any group of stairs S S S etc. may be secured at a selected height H H H etc. below the top of the frame of the retractable stair system. In an embodiment once the top stair Sis secured by use of the locking latch system just described the retractable extensible stair assembly RSA may be pulled out to extend the set of stairs to a desired overall height while the scissors construction provides for uniform spacing distance D between each of the stairs S S S in a selected set of stairs as illustrated in .

Still referring to for ground support a first extensible support leg A and second extensible support leg B may be provided. In various embodiments the first extensible support leg A and the second extensible support leg B include an upper support member having an interior channel defined by interior sidewalls which provides a receiver for passage therethrough of a lower support member which can be adjusted upwardly or downwardly as it nests in the upper support member . A plurality of holes defined by edgewalls in the upper tubular member provides locking locations for detents which may be spring loaded outwardly toward the upper tubular member so that the height of the lower support member is easily adjusted. The detents are sized and shaped for close fitting mating engagement with each of the holes in the upper support member . In an embodiment the upper support member may be provided in the configuration of a square tubular member.

As further seen in extensible foot pads or plates and may be sized and shaped for transmitting a portion of a load from the stairs to a substrate below such as the ground or a parking lot may be pivotably secured at pivot to the lower support member . In an embodiment the foot pads A and B may be affixed to the lower support member so that a majority of said substrate engaging surface of foot pad A and B is located inwardly toward the stairs and thus away from first frame side and from second frame side . Where uneven ground is encountered in a substrate such as represented by rock the overall extended height Hof the first foot pad and the overall extended height of a second foot pad may be independently adjusted to assure firm support even though the substrate includes uneven ground. The first extensible support leg is extendable to a selected height H and the second extensible support leg is extendable to a selected height H. The first extensible support leg and the second extensible support leg are independently extendable so that selected height Hand selected height Hmay be the same or different.

Further details of construction of an embodiment for a retractable stair assembly will now be addressed. Attention is directed to where an embodiment for a retractable stair system is provided. The retractable stair system includes a frame having a first side plate and a second side plate . The first and second side plates located at a first frame side and at a second frame side respectively and spaced apart by one or more longitudinal structural members for example first upper longitudinal member and second upper longitudinal member . The first side plate and the second side plate each further include first edgewalls defining an annular arc slide guide cutout therein and second edgewalls defining a recessed latch finger cutout therein.

As better seen in and following figures and as may be further understood by reference to a first keeper plate and a second keeper plate are provided and are pivotally affixed to the said frame at the first frame side and at the second frame side . As may be more clearly understood by further reference to the first keeper plate is pivotally affixed at a first pivot Pon the first frame side and the second keeper plate is pivotally affixed at a second pivot Pon the second frame side .

As may be understood by reference to and to a first indexing plate and a second indexing plate are provided. The first indexing plate and the second indexing plate are pivotally affixed to the frame at Pto first side plate on first frame side and at Pto second side plate on the second frame side respectively.

Each of the first indexing plate and the second indexing plate may include a generally arcuate upper surface and respectively. In the arcuate upper surface and of the first indexing plate and of the second indexing plate a plurality of locking notches LN are provided downwardly recessed therein. In an embodiment locking notches LN may be provided in a series of locking notches LN LN LNand LNas seen in and B. In an embodiment a first locking notch LNmay be provided for use in locking the retractable extensible scissors stairs assembly RSA in a stowed and locked position as seen in .

As seen in and as may be further understood by reference to a first latch and a second latch are provided. The first latch and the second latch are pivotally affixed at a pivot necks and respectively via pivot Pand P to frame at first side plate on first frame side and at second side plate on second frame side respectively. The first latch and the second latch each further include a downwardly extending latch tongue and respectively which is sized and shaped for interfitting locking engagement with locking notches LN e.g. LN LN LNand LN in the first indexing plate and in the second indexing plate respectively. . In an embodiment the first latch and the second latch may each include a body and respectively which has a concave lower portion and respectively from which their respective latch tongue or protrudes. In an embodiment the concave lower portion and of first latch and second latch respectively may substantially conform in shape to said arcuate upper surface or of the first indexing plate or the second indexing plate respectively. In an embodiment the first latch and the second latch each may further have a distal end D or D respectively having a latch handle thereon. In an embodiment the latch handle may be oriented substantially transverse to the body or of the first latch and or of the second latch and in a direction outwardly from the first side plate and or the second side plate respectively.

In an embodiment a retractable stair system may further include the use of at least one latch longitudinal stiffener . In such an embodiment the least one latch longitudinal stiffener extends between said first keeper plate and said second keeper plate and

In an embodiment a retractable stair system may further include the use of at least one latch longitudinal stiffener . In such an embodiment the least one latch longitudinal stiffener extends between a proximal end of the first latch and a proximal end of the second latch . The at least one latch longitudinal stiffener provides for coordination of movement between first latch and second latch so that movement of either the first latch or of the second latch is transferred to the other.

Similarly a retractable stair system may further include at least one keeper longitudinal stiffener . The at least one keeper longitudinal stiffener is oriented to extend across the retractable stair system between the first keeper plate and the second keeper plate . In order to assure locking the keeper longitudinal stiffener is sized and shaped to keep the first and second keeper plates against or at least adjacent the first and second indexing plates respectively sufficiently so that slippage of latch tongue T of the first latch with respect to the first indexing plate and of the latch tongue T of said second latch with respect to the second indexing plate when the latch tongue T of the first latch and the latch tongue T of the second latch are latched in one of said recessed locking notches LN in the first indexing plate and in the second indexing plate respectively.

In an embodiment a retractable stair system may further include a latch pipe having first a first end and a second end . The first end and the second end of the latch pipe are configured for secure mating engagement with the recessed latch finger cutout defined by sidewalls in the first side plate and in the second side plate . In this manner the latch pipe vertically supports the extensible retractable scissors stair assembly RSA when the extensible retractable stair assembly RSA is placed in a storage position as shown in or . In an embodiment the latch pipe may be provided using a material with adequate strength properties for the service e.g. inch schedule pipe . In an embodiment the latch pipe may be provided in a selected stainless steel. Various fabrication techniques such as use of welding in a jig may be selected by those of skill in the art and to whom this disclosure is directed without need for additional details. However attention is drawn to showing Detail B of which further illustrates assembly location and identifies suitable additional components such as large spacer and small spacer as well as use of suggested hardware including capping the ends and with a pan head machine screw . One latch pipe may be provided for each retractable stair system .

Attention is directed to which provides details which may be utilized in an embodiment of a retractable stair system for attachment of the extensible retractable stair assembly RSA to the frame via first keeper plate and second keeper plate . As noted above in an embodiment the entire retractable stair assembly RSA may be mounted for pivotable movement between first adaptor bracket and first flat bar arm and between a second adaptor bracket and second flat bar arm see . Note that a first flat bar arm is pivotally mounted to the first side plate at pivot P which extends through the first keeper plate and the first indexing plate . Likewise the second flat bar arm is pivotably mounted to the second side plate a pivot Pextends through the second keeper plate and the second indexing plate . The first flat bar arm has a first guide Gattached for arcuate movement in guide track Twhich may be defined by an annular arc shaped slide guide which may be in the shape of an annular arc shaped slide guide as defined by first edgewalls in the first side plate . The second flat bar arm has a second guide Gattached for arcuate movement in a guide track Twhich may be in the shape of an annular arc shaped slide guide as defined by first edgewalls in the second side plate . The guides Gand Gmay be attached through a medial hole in the first flat bar arm and a medial hole in the second flat bar arm respectively as may be appreciated by reviewing . Thus the first flat bar arm has a proximal end which is securely attached at the first keeper plate and configured for pivoting motion about pivot P. Likewise the second flat bar arm has a proximal end which is securely attached at the first keeper plate and configured for pivoting motion about pivot P. The first flat bar arm and the second flat bar arm are configured for arcuate movement in concert with the first keeper plate and the second keeper plate respectively. The first flat bar arm has a distal end that extends outwardly from the first keeper plate . The second flat bar arm has a distal end that extends outwardly from the second keeper plate .

As seen in a retractable stair system may be provided where the extensible retractable stair assembly RSA is attached at pivots Pand Pat or near the distal ends and of first flat bar arm and second flat bar arm respectively to the first adapter bracket and to the second adapter bracket . In an embodiment the first adapter bracket includes a proximal end which is pivotally attached at or near the distal end of the first flat bar arm . The first adapter bracket also includes a distal end that extends outwardly from the first flat bar arm . In an embodiment the second adapter bracket includes a proximal end which is pivotally attached at or near the distal end of the second flat bar arm . The second adapter bracket also includes a distal end that extends outwardly from the second flat bar arm . In an embodiment the first adapter bracket and the second adapter bracket each includes a generally L shaped ear portion or respectively at said proximal end or respectively. In such an embodiment the first adapter bracket is pivotally attached to the first flat bar arm at the ear shaped portion of the first adapter bracket . Likewise the second adapter bracket is pivotally attached to the second flat bar arm at the ear shaped portion of the second adapter bracket .

As seen in a retractable stair system may be provided which includes an extensible retractable scissors stair assembly RSA. The extensible retractable stair assembly RSA includes a first scissors assembly and a second scissors assembly . The first scissors assembly and the second scissors assembly are affixed to the first adapter bracket and to the second adapter bracket respectively. In an embodiment the first scissors assembly and the second scissors assembly each includes a plurality of outward elements which when extended may be oriented substantially horizontally and a plurality of downward elements which when extended may be oriented substantially vertically . Suitable means for providing the first scissors assembly and the second scissors assembly are set out in various drawing figures such as . The first scissors assembly and the second scissors assembly are spaced apart by a number N of stairs S in a series of stairs Sto S wherein N is a positive integer between two and six inclusive and wherein each of the stairs S is securely affixed between selected outward elements of the first scissors assembly and the second scissors assembly . As seen in one or more of the stairs S in the series of stairs Sto Sfurther includes an upper surface S S etc. which includes thereon a non skid surface portion .

Attention is now directed to . In order to provide easy deployment and stowage of the extensible retractable stair assembly RSA the first indexing plate the second indexing plate may be provided with low friction surface pads . In an embodiment the first indexing plate has an outer side and an inner side . Low friction surface pads are affixed to the outer side of the first indexing plate . This technique decreases the friction between inner side of the first side plate and the outer side of the first indexing plate to facilitate arcuate movement of the first indexing plate with respect to the first side plate . For the same reasons the second indexing plate may be provided with low friction surface pads . In an embodiment the second indexing plate has an outer side and an inner side . Low friction surface pads are affixed to the outer side of the second indexing plate . This technique decreases the friction between inner side of the second side plate and the outer side of the second indexing plate to facilitate arcuate movement of the second indexing plate with respect to the second side plate . As seen in for the same reasons an inward side of first latch and of second latch may also be provided with a strip of low friction surface pad .

In operation the retractable stair assembly is adjusted via the moving the first and second latches to remove latch tongues and from the then utilized working recessed locking notch LN in the respective first indexing plate and in the second indexing plate . This can be seen in the series of drawing figures namely . The first side plate has a top and the second side plate has a top . In an embodiment the adjustment of the latch tongue T of the first latch and of the latch tongue of the second latch to one of the plurality of working recessed locking notches LN adjusts said stair Sto a height Hbelow the top of the first side plate and below the top of the second side plate .

In an embodiment as seen in wherein the first and second indexing plates include a first recessed locking notch LN a second recessed locking notch LN a third recessed locking notch LN and a fourth recessed locking notch LN the placement of the latch tongues and in the first locking notch LNmay be used to secure the retractable stair system in a secure stair Sin a stowed position wherein the stair Sis substantially secured between the first side plate and the second side plate .

In an embodiment as seen in wherein the first and second indexing plates include a first recessed locking notch LN a second recessed locking notch LN a third recessed locking notch LN and a fourth recessed locking notch LN the placement of the latch tongues and in the second locking notch LNmay be used to secure the retractable stair system in a first stair height configuration wherein the stair Sis adjusted to a height Hbelow the top of said first side plate and below the top of the second side plate .

In an embodiment as seen in wherein the first and second indexing plates include a first recessed locking notch LN a second recessed locking notch LN a third recessed locking notch LN and a fourth recessed locking notch LN the placement of the latch tongues and in the third locking notch LNmay be used to secure the retractable stair system in a second stair height configuration wherein the stair Sis adjusted to a height Hbelow the top of said first side plate and below the top of the second side plate .

In an embodiment as seen in wherein the first and second indexing plates include a first recessed locking notch LN a second recessed locking notch LN a third recessed locking notch LN and a fourth recessed locking notch LN the placement of the latch tongues and in the fourth locking notch LNmay be used to secure the retractable stair system in a third stair height configuration wherein the stair Sis adjusted to a height Hbelow the top of said first side plate and below the top of the second side plate . In this example the adjustment of height Hof the stair Sbelow the top of the first side plate and below the top of the second side plate may be about seven 7 inches. In other embodiments as just noted above the adjustment of height Hof the stair Sbelow the top of the first side plate and below the top of the second side plate may be as much as about seven 7 inches or less.

Attention is directed to where the use of shelf brackets or or are illustrated. The shelf brackets may be utilized when four steps S are provided. The shelf brackets may be utilized when five steps S are provided. The shelf brackets may be provided when six steps S are provided. As illustrated in although similar shelf brackets or may be provided the use of a larger number of steps requires lower mounting of the shelf brackets or which may be facilitated by changing the configuration utilized for mounting brackets and respectively.

It is to be appreciated that the retractable stair system with precision elevation control as disclosed herein is an appreciable improvement in the art of stairs for vehicles. The novel design for a retractable stair system with precision elevation control addresses the problem of how to provide for service above differing or uneven substrates such as rocky ground located below the stairs at the location of a parked vehicle. The embodiments have been thoroughly described to enable those of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention including embodiments which utilize aircraft grade aluminum and stainless steel components for corrosion resistance during years of outdoor use such as on various camper designs.

Although only a few exemplary embodiments have been described in detail various details are sufficiently set forth in the drawings and in the specification provided herein to enable one of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention s which need not be further described by additional writing in this detailed description. It will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art that the retractable stair system with precision elevation control may be modified from those embodiments provided herein without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages provided.

The aspects and embodiments described and claimed herein may be modified from those shown without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages provided by this invention and may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Therefore the embodiments presented herein are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive. As such this disclosure is intended to cover the structures described herein and not only structural equivalents thereof but also equivalent structures. Numerous modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention s may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Thus the scope of the invention s as set forth in the appended claims and as indicated by the drawing and by the foregoing description is intended to include variations from the embodiments provided which are nevertheless described by the broad interpretation and range properly afforded to the plain meaning of the claims set forth below.

