---

title: Methods and systems for management of video and ring tones among mobile devices
abstract: Provided herein are methods and systems for a sender-controlled contact media content type that can be sent among mobile devices, including addressing the contacts systems and methods of such devices to provide rich interactions among users upon the occurrence of contact events.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09609124&OS=09609124&RS=09609124
owner: Vyng, Inc.
number: 09609124
owner_city: Santa Monica
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160429
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional App. No. 62 155 706 filed on May 1 2015 the entire contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

This application relates to the field of mobile devices and more particularly to the management of content such as ring tones and video that can be played when one user contacts another via a mobile device.

The proliferation of mobile devices has enabled a wide range of highly personalized social interactions such as sharing of photos videos and music among other types of content. However the contact function of a typical mobile device is quite generic typically providing an alphabetized list of names with phone numbers and other basic contact information. Calls and texts between users typically identify the user and may even play a selected ring tone that is selected by the recipient of the call or text to play when a particular individual calls or texts but the event of a call or text is otherwise un customized.

Users might create content that could be played upon contact events but in current systems another user would need to undertake significant interactions in order for them to be played and the content would tend to go stale without significant effort on the part of a receiver of a call or text.

A need exists for improved methods and systems for managing the contacts modules and functions of mobile devices.

Provided herein are methods and systems for a sender controlled contact media content type referred to herein in some cases as SCCMC that can be sent among mobile devices including addressing the contacts systems and methods of such devices to provide rich interactions among users upon the occurrence of contact events. Such methods and systems may occur at the level of the contacts functions of a mobile device such as being initiated directly upon a contact independent of the need for an application on the recipient s mobile device. In embodiments the SCCMC can play for example on the lock screen of the recipient s mobile device as an incoming call occurs or the SCCMC can display on a contact screen when the phone is unlocked and active including without limitation on the home screen of the recipient s mobile device on a screen that displays when the recipient is on a phone call and or when the recipient is using an application on the recipient s mobile device. The methods and systems described herein may allow a first user user A to create custom photos videos ring tones and the like that are played under control of user A on the mobile device of another user user B such as when user A calls or texts user B s device. For example user A may create a video with associated audio content and deliver that content to user B s phone and have the video and audio play on user B s phone when user A contacts user B such as by text or call. The content may in a single broadcast act comprise both voice layer and data layer content and use in a coordinated fashion voice layer and data layer transmission mediums. Such content is referred to herein as a sender controlled contact media content item SCCMC or in some cases as a Ving or a Vyng. 

Provided herein are methods and systems for providing a sender controlled contact media content data structure that is adapted to be created using a mobile device of a sender and sent to at least one mobile device of at least one recipient and a host computing system including at least one server for managing the sender controlled contact media content data structure wherein the sender controlled contact media data structure is adapted to be displayed via the contacts function of the mobile device of a recipient under control of the sender of the sender controlled contact media content data structure.

Methods and systems are provided herein including methods and systems that include a sender controlled contact media content data structure that is adapted to be created using a mobile device of a sender and sent to at least one mobile device of at least one recipient and a host computing system including at least one server for managing the sender controlled contact media content data structure wherein the sender controlled contact media data structure is adapted to be displayed on a screen of a recipient s mobile device when the recipient s device is turned on and able to receive at least one of a data signal and a voice signal wherein the sender controlled contact media data structure displays content that is under control of the sender of the sender controlled contact media content data structure.

In embodiments the sender controlled contact media content data structure uses voice layer and data layer transmission mediums in a single broadcast act by the sender. In embodiments the screen of the recipient s mobile device is the screen displays upon the occurrence of a contact event at the recipient s mobile device. In embodiments the screen of the recipient s mobile device is the lock screen of the recipient s mobile device. In embodiments the screen of the recipient s mobile device is the home screen of the recipient s mobile device. In embodiments the screen of the recipient s mobile device is an active screen of the recipient s mobile device that displays when the mobile device is unlocked. In embodiments the screen of the recipient s mobile device is a screen that displays while the recipient is on a phone call using the recipient s mobile device.

The methods and systems disclosed herein may include an installable application running on the host computing system for establishing a data connection between the mobile device of the sender and the at least one mobile device of the at least one recipient. In embodiments the installable application is configured to allow discovery of peer devices in proximity to allow an exchange of the sender controlled contact media content data structure between the mobile device of the sender and the at least one mobile device of the at least one recipient. In embodiments the installable application enables a user interface that allows creation of the sender controlled contact media content data structure on the mobile device of the sender.

In embodiments the host computing system enables downloading of the sender controlled contact media content data structure on the at least one mobile device of the at least one recipient.

In embodiments the mobile device of the sender and the at least one mobile device of the at least one recipient are communicatively coupled to the server and wherein the server is a content server. In embodiments the mobile device of the sender is communicatively coupled to mobile devices of a plurality of recipients such that each of the recipient devices receives the sender controlled contact media content data structure. In some cases this is described as a bomb a Vyng bomb or the like.

In embodiments a plurality of sender controlled contact media data structures are organized into a channel such that at least one recipient s mobile device plays a series of the sender controlled contact media data structures upon a plurality of contact events from at least one sender. In embodiments the channel is associated with at least one of a topic of interest to a sender a topic of interest to at least one recipient and a social graph of at least one of a sender and at least one recipient. In embodiments the sender controlled contact media data structures are selected by the sender from a curated library of sender controlled contact media data structures. In embodiments the library is curated by an algorithm based on a topic of interest indicated by at least one of the sender and the recipient. In embodiments the library is curated by an editor based on the subject matter of the channel.

The methods and systems described herein may include methods and systems for taking a sender controlled contact media content data structure that is created using a mobile device of a sender providing a host system that enables transmission of the sender controlled contact media content data structure from the mobile device of the sender to at least one mobile device of at least one recipient and causing the display of the sender controlled contact media content data structure on a screen of the at least one mobile device of the at least one recipient when the at least one recipient s device is turned on and able to receive at least one of a data signal and a voice signal wherein the sender controlled contact media data structure displays content that is under control of the sender of the sender controlled contact media content data structure. In embodiments the sender controlled contact media content data structure uses voice layer and data layer transmission mediums in a single broadcast act by the sender. In embodiments the screen of the recipient s mobile device is the screen displays upon the occurrence of a contact event at the recipient s mobile device. In embodiments the screen of the recipient s mobile device is the lock screen of the recipient s mobile device. In embodiments the screen of the recipient s mobile device is the home screen of the recipient s mobile device. In embodiments the screen of the recipient s mobile device is an active screen of the recipient s mobile device that displays when the mobile device is unlocked. In embodiments the screen of the recipient s mobile device is a screen that displays while the recipient is on a phone call using the recipient s mobile device. In embodiments the sender controlled contact media content data structure comprises one or more of audio video contact data and metadata. In embodiments sending the sender controlled contact media content data structure comprises sending a text message wherein the text message includes an embedded link to facilitate installation of an application by the at least one recipient on the at least one mobile device of the at least one recipient upon tapping of the embedded link by the at least one recipient wherein the installable application establishes a data connection between the mobile phone of the sender and the mobile phone of the at least one recipient.

In embodiments the methods and systems described herein may further include downloading of the sender controlled contact media content data structure on the at least one mobile device of the at least one recipient using the embedded link wherein the downloading of the sender controlled contact media content data structure enables displaying a contact of the sender as being associated with the sender controlled contact media content data structure on the at least one mobile device of the at least one recipient.

In embodiments the methods and systems described herein may further include initiating a contact by the mobile device of the sender with the at least one mobile device of the at least one recipient such that the sender controlled contact media content data structure is displayed on the at least one mobile device of the at least one recipient when the contact between the mobile device of the sender and the at least one mobile device of the at least one recipient initiates. In embodiments the contact is initiated between the mobile device of the sender and the at least one mobile device of the at least one recipient when the sender places a phone call. In embodiments the contact is initiated between the mobile device of the sender and the at least one mobile device of the at least one recipient when the sender sends a text message to the at least one mobile device of the at least one recipient.

In embodiments the methods and systems described herein may further include enabling a user interface on the mobile device of the sender to allow creation of the sender controlled contact media content data structure through the user interface. In embodiments the user interface further allows to edit the sender controlled contact media content data structure from an external source that stores the sender controlled contact media content data structure. In embodiments the external source comprises one of a cloud repository and a library of a third party content provider. In embodiments the user interface allows to create the sender controlled contact media content data structure associated with an emotional state of the sender. In embodiments the emotional state is indicated through a data field in metadata associated with the sender controlled contact media content data structure. In embodiments the emotional state is indicated by one or more of a facial expression an image a sound and an emoticon.

In embodiments the methods and systems described herein may further include setting a privacy control through the installable application to limit publication of the sender controlled contact media content data structure to a select audience.

The methods and systems disclosed herein may include methods and systems for segregating the created sender controlled contact media content data structure into one or more of audio video and metadata components associating each of the components of the created sender controlled contact media content data structure with a particular tone and storing the tone for each of the components locally on the mobile device of the sender. In embodiments the methods and systems described herein may further include uploading the tone for each of the components on an application server or a content server. In embodiments the methods and systems described herein may further include allowing previewing the sender controlled contact media content data structure and adding custom details to the sender controlled contact media content data structure either before or after sending the sender controlled contact media content data structure to the at least one recipient. In embodiments causing the display of the sender controlled contact media content data structure on the screen of the at least one mobile device is triggered by detection of the passing of the recipient s mobile device into an area defined by a geofence.

Skilled artisans will appreciate that elements in the figures are illustrated for simplicity and clarity and have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements in the figures may be exaggerated relative to other elements to help to improve understanding of embodiments of the systems and methods disclosed herein.

The present disclosure will now be described in detail by describing various illustrative non limiting embodiments thereof with reference to the accompanying drawings and exhibits. The disclosure may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as being limited to the illustrative embodiments set forth herein. Rather the embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and will fully convey the concept of the disclosure to those skilled in the art. The claims should be consulted to ascertain the true scope of the disclosure.

Before describing in detail embodiments that are in accordance with the systems and methods disclosed herein it should be observed that the embodiments reside primarily in combinations of method steps and or system components related to enabling a user to associate a service with a product in a way that makes it much more convenient and effective for the user to take advantage of the benefits of the service in connection with the product. Accordingly the system components and method steps have been represented where appropriate by conventional symbols in the drawings showing only those specific details that are pertinent to understanding the embodiments of the systems and methods disclosed herein so as not to obscure the disclosure with details that will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art.

All documents mentioned herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. References to items in the singular should be understood to include items in the plural and vice versa unless explicitly stated otherwise or clear from the context. Grammatical conjunctions are intended to express any and all disjunctive and conjunctive combinations of conjoined clauses sentences words and the like unless otherwise stated or clear from the context. Thus the term or should generally be understood to mean and or and so forth.

Recitation of ranges of values herein are not intended to be limiting referring instead individually to any and all values falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value within such a range is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. The words about approximately or the like when accompanying a numerical value are to be construed as indicating a deviation as would be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art to operate satisfactorily for an intended purpose. Ranges of values and or numeric values are provided herein as examples only and do not constitute a limitation on the scope of the described embodiments. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as or the like provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate the embodiments and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the embodiments or the claims. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any unclaimed element as essential to the practice of the embodiments.

In the following description it is understood that terms such as first second third above below and the like are words of convenience and are not to be construed as implying a chronological order or otherwise limiting any corresponding element unless expressly state otherwise.

As used herein the term tone may be used to refer to a single instance of a sender controlled contact media content type which may include one or more of audio video which may include video captured by video cameras voice computer generated video animations or other video type content that can be displayed in any format on a mobile device such as a mobile phone contact data and or metadata. A single tone may be adapted for broadcast in a single act by a sender over both voice layer and data layer transmission mediums in a coordinated fashion. As noted above an SCCMC is also referred to herein including in the figures for convenience as a Vyng which is an example of a brand name for the SCCMC that would be understood by users to refer to this novel type of content item.

The user s composite creation may be separated into audio video and metadata components. These components may be associated with a particular tone such as by being assigned as properties of the tone. The tone may then be stored locally on the device . The tone may be uploaded to the application server or content server and may be persisted in storage such as associated with the server or in cloud based storage.

In an exemplary embodiment a first user may create the SCCMC such as using the App at step . At a step the first user may then share the SCCMC with friends such as by text SMS message such as in a snippet link or the like in a text such as with a second user. At a step the first user may preview the SCCMC and or add other custom details either before or after sharing the SCCMC with one or more other users. At a step the second user may tap the link and install the App which may set the SCCMC of the first user on the second user s phone . Either user may send the SCCMC to multiple persons and a community around the App may be used such as within a group of friends within a school district within a work group or enterprise or the like. When the second user first downloads the App the first user s contact may be shown now associated with the SCCMC tone created by the first user. The second user may further create a tone at a step A. At a step the second user may share this SCCMC with the first user and or other friends for example. The second user may for example create a custom SCCMC for his wife at a step B.

The user s composite creation may be separated into audio video and metadata components. These components may be associated with a particular tone such as by being assigned as properties of the tone. The tone may then be stored locally on the device . The tone may be uploaded to the application server or content server and may be persisted in storage such as associated with the server or in cloud based storage.

In an exemplary embodiment illustrated in a first user may create the SCCMC such as using the App at the first step . The SCCMC may be created using a standard encoding protocol. Standard encoding protocols may include HTML5 Flash MP4 H.264 WebM Ogg 3GP MPEG4 and the like. At a second step the first user may upload the SCCMC to a server. The server may be a hosted on a cloud hosting service. Cloud hosting services may include Amazon Web Services AWS Microsoft Azure Infrastructure Services Google Cloud Platform CenturyLink Cloud CLC VMware vCloud Air IBM SoftLayer Rackspace and the like.

At a third step a dual push notification may be sent from the server to a second user. The dual push notification may be sent over a first network a second network or a first network and a second network . First network and second network may be on separate infrastructures operated by different operators such as an Amazon SMS infrastructure a Google Cloud Messaging infrastructure a Pushy MQTT infrastructure an infrastructure of a mobile telecommunications operator and the like. Sending the push notification over multiple separate infrastructures may increase the reliability of the push notification sent from the first user being received by the second user.

At a fourth step the second user may receive the push notification on the second user s mobile phone . The push notification may include information that tells the second user s mobile phone to prepare to play the SCCMC created by the first user. The second user s mobile phone may download the SCCMC. The SCCMC may be installed on the second user s mobile phone to be played on a screen of the second user s mobile phone such as at the lock screen on the home screen in an application or on a screen that displays while the recipient is on a phone call. At a fifth step the second user may send a push notification to the first user. The push notification sent by the second user to the first user may inform the first user that the second user received the SCMCC sent by the first user. The push notification sent by the second user to the first user may also inform the first user that the SCMCC sent by the first user to the second user is ready to play on the second user s mobile phone .

The second user may receive the phone call on the second user s mobile device from the first user s mobile device at a third step . The second user s mobile device may play the SCCMC when the phone call is received from the first user s mobile device as illustrated in subsequent steps and .

For purposes of creation a button in the App may allow the first user to discover and choose audio videos or SCCMC tones that he may already have. The videos or other forms of content to be used in the SCCMC may be stored in a library and the App may facilitate discovery from the library. The App may also allow browsing other videos that come from other websites that enable sharing or downloading of video. In embodiments the SCCMC may be selected from a curated library of SCCMC type content. The library may be automatically curated under computer control via an algorithm that is based on a topic of interest indicated by a sender or a recipient of an SCCMC. The library may be curated by an editor based on subject matter such as the subject matter of a channel to which a sender or recipient subscribes.

The App may allow searching for key words and it may automatically upload a video that is searched for those keywords. The App may also allow using stop motion photos in the SCCMC and may allow video or audio payload. The App may allow adding audio to videos and the like. The audio files may be either taken from what is already created user s library or from the sender mobile phone or from other users albums such as music store and the like.

As shown the recipient mobile phone may display the SCCMC that the first user directs the recipient mobile phone to ring show video that reflects current mood of the first user. The App may be able to choose what the first user sends or what is displayed on the second user s phone such as indicated by emojis by selecting a mood or the like. In embodiments the correct SCCMC tone may be shared every time the first user calls or texts the second user. In other embodiments one or more tones is stored on the second user s mobile device and is triggered by the receipt of a call from the number of the first user s device possibly carrying with it other information which may be transmitted over the server via the App that allows selection of particular emotional content. In embodiments the App may change an SCCMC during a call. The App may be triggered to change an SCCMC during a call when the mood of the first user changes to a different mood for example. The App may select a new SCCMC for display on the second user s device to reflect the different mood of the first user. A user may be able to respond to the SCCMC.

A user may be able to respond to an SCCMC by tapping on the SCCMC. For example a second user may be able provide feedback to a first user on an SCCMC sent by the first user to the second user. The feedback sent by the second user may indicate the second user s satisfaction with the SCCMC sent by the first user to the second user. The second user may provide feedback to the first user by tapping on an SCCMC received from a first user for example. The tap may generate a heart or other emoji on the SCCMC displayed on the second user s mobile device . The tap may also generate a heart or other emoji on the screen of the first user s mobile device . 

In various embodiments content delivery may be achieved either through a client server architecture including a cloud architecture a peer to peer architecture or other content delivery architecture.

In a client server approach the App may periodically query the application server or content server for newly published or updated content. A content update may also be triggered via a push message from the server . Content may be filtered based upon privacy settings set by the content creator. The App may automatically download newly published or updated content and may synchronize the local data store on the device with other content such as cloud stored content.

In a peer to peer approach users such as the first user and the second user in the examples above who are in proximity to each other or connected via any peer to peer network connection may discover each other through the App. For example the peer application may broadcast its presence to a listening port on the other peer device to establish its presence and seek to exchange credentials. Once discovered peers may be displayed in the App to a user. The user may then selectively send SCCMC tones to one or more discovered peers.

In embodiments upon initiation of the application on a mobile device the App may register with the operating system of the mobile device including registering as a listener for incoming voice calls and incoming text messages.

When the App is notified of an incoming call it may receive the incoming phone number from the operating system. The App may query its own internal database for an SCCMC tone that is linked to the incoming phone number. If a match is found the App starts a new activity to play the SCCMC tone such as using the default ringer application on the phone.

When the App is notified of an incoming text message SMS it may receive the incoming phone number from the operating system. The App may query its own internal database such as for audio to play that is linked to the incoming phone number. If a match is found the App may play the audio file such as in an alternative to playing the default sound normally used to indicate an incoming text message.

The App may further allow pushing and synchronizing content to the contacts portion of a friend s contact s phone such as the recipient mobile phone where the first user may control the video audio presentation when the recipient mobile phone rings upon the call of the first user. In embodiments a user can find manipulate and or create video and or audio and push it to the contacts function on someone else s phone such as the recipient mobile .

In the illustrated embodiment shown in the first user not only created a video ringtone but also created a text tone. The App changes the text tone accordingly.

Embodiments may include user linking. For example the first user and the second user may link their accounts so that shared content is available between the users. The first user may send a text message with an identifying token via the App to the second user. The App on the recipient s phone may listen for the incoming text message and automatically send the identifying token to the server . The two accounts are then linked server side so that content may be shared between the first user and the second user.

User discovery may also be enabled. The App may also display a feed of publicly shared tones. The users may discover and link their accounts to other users in the public feed via private request accept messages. Users may like a tone add a tone to their library re Vyng comment on a tone report a tone and the like. A record button may be fixed to the bottom of the feed screen. Video may play without audio as a user scrolls through the feed. Users may maximize the video by tapping on it and when the video is maximized the accompanying audio may be played.

The first user may go into a payload that the first user sends to the second user. The first user may put content in the form of a profile picture name and email into the payload. If the first user changes any of this content then the second user receives an update e.g. the first user changed his profile picture email etc. that may automatically update the content on the recipient s phone or the recipient may have settings that control updates to the recipient s phone such as by allowing the payload to be updated under control or automatically based on the settings selected by the recipient.

The SCCMC tone created for the first user can be shared with the second user the world or other people selected by the first user. The first user may decide to not share the SCCMC tone.

The first user may choose to select existing video or audio to add to the SCCMC tone as shown in newly captured audio as shown in and music as shown in . Newly captured audio may be captured and posted automatically.

In an example an SCCMC tone may live on the recipient s phone at the level of the contacts function rather than in an application that the second user has to locate access and use. The contact card may create all the features of the SCCMC tone using content taken from the social network of the first user. If first user calls or texts the second user the SCCMC displays the contact of the first user whenever the second user uses the normal functions of the phone to interact with the call or text from the first user. Thus the SCCMC tone is played within the contacts function of the recipient s phone without requiring the recipient to interact with an application.

Various content control functions may be enabled. When the App receives new or updated SCCMC tone information the App may update the local store of metadata in the application database and update the local contact information of the registered user with fields stored in the a data record for the SCCMC tone. The App may also convert the ringtone audio portion of the SCCMC tone into an acceptable format for a ringtone or text tone on the local device save the ringtone to the shared data store in the phone s operating system and register the ringtone with the operating system. Using application programming interfaces APIs of the operating system the App may assign the ringtone to the sender on the recipient s phone .

Next in a step the files may be associated with a database record that may store information about the SCCMC tone such as the identifying information for User A identifying information and property information for the audio file and the video file and metadata such as further information about user A and information about how User A wishes to share the SCCMC tone. At a step the SCCMC tone may be uploaded from User A s mobile phone such as a smart phone to a content server and at a step the content server may publish the SCCMC tone along with certain privacy controls that are based on preferences of User A such as whether the SCCMC tone is just for User A is intended to be shared with another party referred to here as User B or the second user or parties or is intended to be public. Such privacy controls for a given SCCMC tone may be captured in the application that User A uses on User A s device to create and upload the SCCMC tone.

Next at a step User B may open the App on User B s mobile phone which queries the content server to assess what is available to User B s mobile phone in a feed that is associated with User B which may include User B s own creations content shared with User B by others such as User A and public content published by various users. The content server and User B s mobile phone may undertake a synchronization process at step where a difference is determined between the available feed on the content server and the content already on User B s phone after which at a step User B s mobile phone downloads any content not already present on User B s phone from the content server . Once the updated SCCMC tone data is downloaded the SCCMC App on User B s mobile phone may turn the audio file portion of the SCCMC tone into a ring tone at step which is a special class or format that typically has its own registry in mobile operating systems such as the Android or IOS mobile operating systems deployed on certain smart phones. At a step the SCCMC App may register the audio file associated with the SCCMC tone in the ringtone registry as a ringtone. Next at a step the SCCMC tone may set up a listener using the feature of the operating system that enables listening for incoming phone calls which in the case of devices running the Android mobile operating system is enabled by an SDK for the operating system . The SCCMC App may access native APIs exposed by the Android IOS or other operating system to listen for a call. At a step if an incoming call is detected from a number e.g. the number of User A that has a tone associated with it on User B s mobile phone the SCCMC App retrieves the audio and or video file portions of the SCCMC tone that was downloaded and the audio file portion and video file portion may be played individually or together.

In some closed operating system environments one cannot detect an incoming phone call or set the user s ringtone for the user. In such cases the content server may just update contact information on User B s mobile phone such as allowing User B to save an SCCMC tone for calls from User A but in such cases possibly requiring actions for User B that are not needed in other situations. In embodiments the content server may also push notifications to users so that User B can view User A s content that was shared for User B.

In embodiments such as involving closed operating systems an SCCMC content tone may be downloaded and stored on User B s mobile phone for later access such as at a time when the operating system makes available the ability to listen to a call or at such time as the user elects to have the phone jailbroken or otherwise made open.

In embodiments other ways to share content may involve the P2P transfer of an SCCMC tone optionally with separated audio and video components directly from a phone of a first user to a second user without requiring a content server or client server arrangement or with the content server supplying a complementary role but not being required for the transfer of the SCCMC. This may include using the Airdrop function in phones that use the IOS operating system or similar P2P transfer functions in other operating systems such as Android 

A creator of an SCCMC may select content from the marketplace to include in the SCCMC that the user is creating. A creator of an SCCMC may select content from a content library that is made available by the marketplace to the creator of the SCCMC. The market place may make available SCCMC content add ons which may include voice manipulation functions photo filters video filters and the like. A premium SCCMC may also include promotional content for brands. An affiliate code may be linked to a SCCMC or a particular content component such as an audio or video file included in an SCCMC. Content may be ranked rated shared liked or subscribed to by content creators content senders or content recipients.

In another example a sender of an SCCMC tone may associate a song with an SCCMC tone and choose to have that song play on the mobile device of a recipient when the sender calls or sends a text message to that recipient. The song may be a song performed by a favorite artist another favorite song and the like. In yet another example a pre recorded message from a celebrity personality may play on the phone of a recipient of an SCCMC tone when the sender of the SCCMC tone calls or sends a text message to the recipient. The pre recorded message may be selected based on how the recipient chooses to interact with the call or text message by either accepting rejecting or replying to the call or message.

In the various embodiments described throughout this disclosure an SCCMC may also be a live look video. A live look video may allow a second user to receive a live look at first user when a first user sends an SCCMC or otherwise initiates a call to a second user. A live look may allow the second user to immediately see the face of the first user upon receipt of the SCCMC from the first user or notification that the first user is calling the second user. The live look video may play on the screen of the device of the second user such as the lock screen home screen or other screen. A live look video may be generated by initiating a live video stream. A live video stream may be initiated using a live video stream generator. A live stream generator may be an application such as Skype Facetime Periscope or the like. A live video stream may also be recorded and sent as a series of small video segments. A live look video may be viewed through the window that an SCCMC app has opened on the screen of a user s mobile phone.

Sending an SCCMC may include automatically recording a user s reaction to an SCCMC as illustrated in . In a first step a first user may send an SCCMC to a second user. The second user may receive the SCCMC from the first user in a second step . The mobile phone of the second user may record the reaction of the second user in a third step such as by having the SCCMC include instructions to turn on the camera of the recipient s phone facing in the direction of the recipient. At a fourth step the recipient s phone may turn on the camera and record the reaction of the recipient. In embodiments the second user may give permission to the second user s mobile phone to record the reaction of the second user. Permission may be given by the second user to the second user s mobile phone to record the reaction of the second user prior to receipt of the SCCMC upon receipt of the SCCMC before the SCCMC begins to play and the like. In a step the recipient user may be offered options to process the reaction such as being given an option to save upload or share the second user s reaction.

In certain aspects the computing device may be implemented using hardware e.g. in a desktop computer software e.g. in a virtual machine or the like or a combination of software and hardware. The computing device may be a standalone device a device integrated into another entity or device a platform distributed across multiple entities or a virtualized device executing in a virtualization environment.

The network may include any network described above e.g. data network s or internetwork s suitable for communicating data and control information among participants in the computer system . This may include public networks such as the Internet private networks and telecommunications networks such as the Public Switched Telephone Network or cellular networks using third generation cellular technology e.g. 3G or IMT 2000 fourth generation cellular technology e.g. 4G LTE. MT Advanced E UTRA etc. or WiMax Advanced IEEE 802.16 m and or other technologies as well as any of a variety of corporate area metropolitan area campus or other local area networks or enterprise networks along with any switches routers hubs gateways and the like that might be used to carry data among participants in the computer system . The network may also include a combination of data networks and need not be limited to a strictly public or private network.

The external device may be any computer or other remote resource that connects to the computing device through the network . This may include gateways or other network devices remote servers or the like containing content requested by the computing device a network storage device or resource or any other resource or device that might connect to the computing device through the network .

In general the computing device may include a processor a memory a network interface a data store and one or more input output interfaces . The computing device may further include or be in communication with peripherals and other external input output devices that might connect to the input output interfaces .

The processor may be any processor or other processing circuitry capable of processing instructions for execution within the computing device or computer system . The processor may include a single threaded processor a multi threaded processor a multi core processor and so forth. The processor may be capable of processing instructions stored in the memory or the data store .

The memory may store information within the computing device . The memory may include any volatile or non volatile memory or other computer readable medium including without limitation a Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory a Read Only Memory ROM a Programmable Read only Memory PROM an Erasable PROM EPROM registers and so forth. The memory may store program instructions program data executables and other software and data useful for controlling operation of the computing device and configuring the computing device to perform functions for a user. The memory may include a number of different stages and types of memory for different aspects of operation of the computing device . For example a processor may include on board memory and or cache for faster access to certain data or instructions and a separate main memory or the like may be included to expand memory capacity as desired. All such memory types may be a part of the memory as contemplated herein.

The memory may in general include a non volatile computer readable medium containing computer code that when executed by the computing device creates an execution environment for a computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of the foregoing and or code that performs some or all of the steps set forth in the various flow charts and other algorithmic descriptions set forth herein. While a single memory is depicted it will be understood that any number of memories may be usefully incorporated into the computing device . For example a first memory may provide non volatile storage such as a disk drive for permanent or long term storage of files and code even when the computing device is powered down. A second memory such as a random access memory may provide volatile but higher speed memory for storing instructions and data for executing processes. A third memory may be used to improve performance by providing higher speed memory physically adjacent to the processor for registers caching and so forth.

The network interface may include any hardware and or software for connecting the computing device in a communicating relationship with other resources through the network . This may include remote resources accessible through the Internet as well as local resources available using short range communications protocols using e.g. physical connections e.g. Ethernet radio frequency communications e.g. WiFi optical communications e.g. fiber optics infrared or the like ultrasonic communications or any combination of these or other media that might be used to carry data between the computing device and other devices. The network interface may for example include a router a modem a network card an infrared transceiver a radio frequency RF transceiver a near field communications interface a radio frequency identification RFID tag reader or any other data reading or writing resource or the like.

More generally the network interface may include any combination of hardware and software suitable for coupling the components of the computing device to other computing or communications resources. By way of example and not limitation this may include electronics for a wired or wireless Ethernet connection operating according to the IEEE 802.11 standard or any variation thereof or any other short or long range wireless networking components or the like. This may include hardware for short range data communications such as Bluetooth or an infrared transceiver which may be used to couple to other local devices or to connect to a local area network or the like that is in turn coupled to a data network such as the Internet. This may also or instead include hardware software for a WiMax connection or a cellular network connection using e.g. CDMA GSM LTE or any other suitable protocol or combination of protocols . The network interface may be included as part of the input output devices or vice versa.

The data store may be any internal memory store providing a computer readable medium such as a disk drive an optical drive a magnetic drive a flash drive or other device capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . The data store may store computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device or computer system in a non volatile form for subsequent retrieval and use. For example the data store may store without limitation one or more of the operating system application programs program data databases files and other program modules or other software objects and the like.

The input output interface may support input from and output to other devices that might couple to the computing device . This may for example include serial ports e.g. RS 232 ports universal serial bus USB ports optical ports Ethernet ports telephone ports audio jacks component audio video inputs HDMI ports and so forth any of which might be used to form wired connections to other local devices. This may also or instead include an infrared interface RF interface magnetic card reader or other input output system for coupling in a communicating relationship with other local devices. It will be understood that while the network interface for network communications is described separately from the input output interface for local device communications these two interfaces may be the same or may share functionality such as where a USB port is used to attach to a WiFi accessory or where an Ethernet connection is used to couple to a local network attached storage.

A peripheral may include any device used to provide information to or receive information from the computing device . This may include human input output I O devices such as a keyboard a mouse a mouse pad a track ball a joystick a microphone a foot pedal a camera a touch screen a scanner or other device that might be employed by the user to provide input to the computing device . This may also or instead include a display a speaker a printer a projector a headset or any other audiovisual device for presenting information to a user. The peripheral may also or instead include a digital signal processing device an actuator or other device to support control or communication to other devices or components. Other I O devices suitable for use as a peripheral include haptic devices three dimensional rendering systems augmented reality displays magnetic card readers and so forth. In one aspect the peripheral may serve as the network interface such as with a USB device configured to provide communications via short range e.g. BlueTooth WiFi Infrared RF or the like or long range e.g. cellular data or WiMax communications protocols. In another aspect the peripheral may provide a device to augment operation of the computing device such as a global positioning system GPS device a security dongle or the like. In another aspect the peripheral may be a storage device such as a flash card USB drive or other solid state device or an optical drive a magnetic drive a disk drive or other device or combination of devices suitable for bulk storage. More generally any device or combination of devices suitable for use with the computing device may be used as a peripheral as contemplated herein.

Other hardware may be incorporated into the computing device such as a co processor a digital signal processing system a math co processor a graphics engine a video driver and so forth. The other hardware may also or instead include expanded input output ports extra memory additional drives e.g. a DVD drive or other accessory and so forth.

A bus or combination of busses may serve as an electromechanical platform for interconnecting components of the computing device such as the processor memory network interface other hardware data store and input output interface. As shown in the figure each of the components of the computing device may be interconnected using a system bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information.

Methods and systems described herein may be realized using the processor of the computer system to execute one or more sequences of instructions contained in the memory to perform predetermined tasks. In embodiments the computing device may be deployed as a number of parallel processors synchronized to execute code together for improved performance or the computing device may be realized in a virtualized environment where software on a hypervisor or other virtualization management facility emulates components of the computing device as appropriate to reproduce some or all of the functions of a hardware instantiation of the computing device .

The communications interface may include hardware and software for communications using a variety of protocols such as a short range communications protocol e.g. Bluetooth a wireless communications protocol e.g. Wi Fi cellular network and so on and so forth. The communications interface may couple the mobile device to a cellular network or the like through a mobile carrier with which a user has a billing account. The communications interface may also or instead couple the mobile device to a data network through which the mobile device can access an online application store or the like. The communications interface may also or instead couple the mobile device to other mobile devices through a data network such as any of the networks described herein.

In an aspect the memory bears computer code that when executing on the processor performs steps for creating sending receiving editing and so on a SCCMC data structure or the like. The memory may also or instead bear computer code that forms an application for the mobile device e.g. execution by the processor on the mobile device .

The display may include screen such as a touch screen or other user interface for receiving user input as contemplated herein e.g. for the creation or editing of SCCMC. The display may also or instead display SCCMC for a user.

The speaker may be used for playing audio from an SCCMC for a user. The speaker may instead include an audio output on the mobile device such as a headphone jack or the like.

The location tracking device may be used to establish a location for the mobile device e.g. for proximity services as contemplated herein. The location tracking device may include a GPS receiver or the like.

While only a few embodiments of the present disclosure have been shown and described it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that many changes and modifications may be made thereunto without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as described in the following claims. All patent applications and patents both foreign and domestic and all other publications referenced herein are incorporated herein in their entireties to the full extent permitted by law.

The methods and systems described herein may be deployed in part or in whole through a machine that executes computer software program codes and or instructions on a processor. The present disclosure may be implemented as a method on the machine as a system or apparatus as part of or in relation to the machine or as a computer program product embodied in a computer readable medium executing on one or more of the machines. In embodiments the processor may be part of a server cloud server client network infrastructure mobile computing platform stationary computing platform or other computing platform. A processor may be any kind of computational or processing device capable of executing program instructions codes binary instructions and the like. The processor may be or may include a signal processor digital processor embedded processor microprocessor or any variant such as a co processor math co processor graphic co processor communication co processor and the like and the like that may directly or indirectly facilitate execution of program code or program instructions stored thereon. In addition the processor may enable execution of multiple programs threads and codes. The threads may be executed simultaneously to enhance the performance of the processor and to facilitate simultaneous operations of the application. By way of implementation methods program codes program instructions and the like described herein may be implemented in one or more thread. The thread may spawn other threads that may have assigned priorities associated with them the processor may execute these threads based on priority or any other order based on instructions provided in the program code. The processor or any machine utilizing one may include non transitory memory that stores methods codes instructions and programs as described herein and elsewhere. The processor may access a non transitory storage medium through an interface that may store methods codes and instructions as described herein and elsewhere. The storage medium associated with the processor for storing methods programs codes program instructions or other type of instructions capable of being executed by the computing or processing device may include but may not be limited to one or more of a CD ROM DVD memory hard disk flash drive RAM ROM cache and the like.

A processor may include one or more cores that may enhance speed and performance of a multiprocessor. In embodiments the process may be a dual core processor quad core processors other chip level multiprocessor and the like that combine two or more independent cores called a die .

The methods and systems described herein may be deployed in part or in whole through a machine that executes computer software on a server client firewall gateway hub router or other such computer and or networking hardware. The software program may be associated with a server that may include a file server print server domain server internet server intranet server cloud server and other variants such as secondary server host server distributed server and the like. The server may include one or more of memories processors computer readable media storage media ports physical and virtual communication devices and interfaces capable of accessing other servers clients machines and devices through a wired or a wireless medium and the like. The methods programs or codes as described herein and elsewhere may be executed by the server. In addition other devices required for execution of methods as described in this application may be considered as a part of the infrastructure associated with the server.

The server may provide an interface to other devices including without limitation clients other servers printers database servers print servers file servers communication servers distributed servers social networks and the like. Additionally this coupling and or connection may facilitate remote execution of program across the network. The networking of some or all of these devices may facilitate parallel processing of a program or method at one or more location without deviating from the scope of the disclosure. In addition any of the devices attached to the server through an interface may include at least one storage medium capable of storing methods programs code and or instructions. A central repository may provide program instructions to be executed on different devices. In this implementation the remote repository may act as a storage medium for program code instructions and programs.

The software program may be associated with a client that may include a file client print client domain client internet client intranet client and other variants such as secondary client host client distributed client and the like. The client may include one or more of memories processors computer readable media storage media ports physical and virtual communication devices and interfaces capable of accessing other clients servers machines and devices through a wired or a wireless medium and the like. The methods programs or codes as described herein and elsewhere may be executed by the client. In addition other devices required for execution of methods as described in this application may be considered as a part of the infrastructure associated with the client.

The client may provide an interface to other devices including without limitation servers other clients printers database servers print servers file servers communication servers distributed servers and the like. Additionally this coupling and or connection may facilitate remote execution of program across the network. The networking of some or all of these devices may facilitate parallel processing of a program or method at one or more location without deviating from the scope of the disclosure. In addition any of the devices attached to the client through an interface may include at least one storage medium capable of storing methods programs applications code and or instructions. A central repository may provide program instructions to be executed on different devices. In this implementation the remote repository may act as a storage medium for program code instructions and programs.

The methods and systems described herein may be deployed in part or in whole through network infrastructures. The network infrastructure may include elements such as computing devices servers routers hubs firewalls clients personal computers communication devices routing devices and other active and passive devices modules and or components as known in the art. The computing and or non computing device s associated with the network infrastructure may include apart from other components a storage medium such as flash memory buffer stack RAM ROM and the like. The processes methods program codes instructions described herein and elsewhere may be executed by one or more of the network infrastructural elements. The methods and systems described herein may be adapted for use with any kind of private community or hybrid cloud computing network or cloud computing environment including those which involve features of software as a service SaaS platform as a service PaaS and or infrastructure as a service IaaS .

The methods program codes and instructions described herein and elsewhere may be implemented on a cellular network having multiple cells. The cellular network may either be frequency division multiple access FDMA network or code division multiple access CDMA network. The cellular network may include mobile devices cell sites base stations repeaters antennas towers and the like. The cell network may be a GSM GPRS 3G EVDO mesh or other networks types.

The methods program codes and instructions described herein and elsewhere may be implemented on or through mobile devices. The mobile devices may include navigation devices cell phones mobile phones mobile personal digital assistants laptops palmtops netbooks pagers electronic books readers music players and the like. These devices may include apart from other components a storage medium such as a flash memory buffer RAM ROM and one or more computing devices. The computing devices associated with mobile devices may be enabled to execute program codes methods and instructions stored thereon. Alternatively the mobile devices may be configured to execute instructions in collaboration with other devices. The mobile devices may communicate with base stations interfaced with servers and configured to execute program codes. The mobile devices may communicate on a peer to peer network mesh network or other communications network. The program code may be stored on the storage medium associated with the server and executed by a computing device embedded within the server. The base station may include a computing device and a storage medium. The storage device may store program codes and instructions executed by the computing devices associated with the base station.

The computer software program codes and or instructions may be stored and or accessed on machine readable media that may include computer components devices and recording media that retain digital data used for computing for some interval of time semiconductor storage known as random access memory RAM mass storage typically for more permanent storage such as optical discs forms of magnetic storage like hard disks tapes drums cards and other types processor registers cache memory volatile memory non volatile memory optical storage such as CD DVD removable media such as flash memory e.g. USB sticks or keys floppy disks magnetic tape paper tape punch cards standalone RAM disks Zip drives removable mass storage off line and the like other computer memory such as dynamic memory static memory read write storage mutable storage read only random access sequential access location addressable file addressable content addressable network attached storage storage area network bar codes magnetic ink and the like.

The methods and systems described herein may transform physical and or or intangible items from one state to another. The methods and systems described herein may also transform data representing physical and or intangible items from one state to another.

The elements described and depicted herein including in flow charts and block diagrams throughout the figures imply logical boundaries between the elements. However according to software or hardware engineering practices the depicted elements and the functions thereof may be implemented on machines through computer executable media having a processor capable of executing program instructions stored thereon as a monolithic software structure as standalone software modules or as modules that employ external routines code services and so forth or any combination of these and all such implementations may be within the scope of the present disclosure. Examples of such machines may include but may not be limited to personal digital assistants laptops personal computers mobile phones other handheld computing devices medical equipment wired or wireless communication devices transducers chips calculators satellites tablet PCs electronic books gadgets electronic devices devices having artificial intelligence computing devices networking equipment servers routers and the like. Furthermore the elements depicted in the flow chart and block diagrams or any other logical component may be implemented on a machine capable of executing program instructions. Thus while the foregoing drawings and descriptions set forth functional aspects of the disclosed systems no particular arrangement of software for implementing these functional aspects should be inferred from these descriptions unless explicitly stated or otherwise clear from the context. Similarly it will be appreciated that the various steps identified and described above may be varied and that the order of steps may be adapted to particular applications of the techniques disclosed herein. All such variations and modifications are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. As such the depiction and or description of an order for various steps should not be understood to require a particular order of execution for those steps unless required by a particular application or explicitly stated or otherwise clear from the context.

The methods and or processes described above and steps associated therewith may be realized in hardware software or any combination of hardware and software suitable for a particular application. The hardware may include a general purpose computer and or dedicated computing device or specific computing device or particular aspect or component of a specific computing device. The processes may be realized in one or more microprocessors microcontrollers embedded microcontrollers programmable digital signal processors or other programmable device along with internal and or external memory. The processes may also or instead be embodied in an application specific integrated circuit a programmable gate array programmable array logic or any other device or combination of devices that may be configured to process electronic signals. It will further be appreciated that one or more of the processes may be realized as a computer executable code capable of being executed on a machine readable medium.

The computer executable code may be created using a structured programming language such as C an object oriented programming language such as C or any other high level or low level programming language including assembly languages hardware description languages and database programming languages and technologies that may be stored compiled or interpreted to run on one of the above devices as well as heterogeneous combinations of processors processor architectures or combinations of different hardware and software or any other machine capable of executing program instructions.

Thus in one aspect methods described above and combinations thereof may be embodied in computer executable code that when executing on one or more computing devices performs the steps thereof. In another aspect the methods may be embodied in systems that perform the steps thereof and may be distributed across devices in a number of ways or all of the functionality may be integrated into a dedicated standalone device or other hardware. In another aspect the means for performing the steps associated with the processes described above may include any of the hardware and or software described above. All such permutations and combinations are intended to fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

The method steps of the implementations described herein are intended to include any suitable method of causing such method steps to be performed consistent with the patentability of the following claims unless a different meaning is expressly provided or otherwise clear from the context. So for example performing the step of X includes any suitable method for causing another party such as a remote user a remote processing resource e.g. a server or cloud computer or a machine to perform the step of X. Similarly performing steps X Y and Z may include any method of directing or controlling any combination of such other individuals or resources to perform steps X Y and Z to obtain the benefit of such steps. Thus method steps of the implementations described herein are intended to include any suitable method of causing one or more other parties or entities to perform the steps consistent with the patentability of the following claims unless a different meaning is expressly provided or otherwise clear from the context. Such parties or entities need not be under the direction or control of any other party or entity and need not be located within a particular jurisdiction.

While the disclosure has been disclosed in connection with the preferred embodiments shown and described in detail various modifications and improvements thereon will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the spirit and scope of the present disclosure is not to be limited by the foregoing examples but is to be understood in the broadest sense allowable by law.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosure especially in the context of the following claims is to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate the disclosure and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the disclosure unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the disclosure.

While the foregoing written description enables one of ordinary skill to make and use what is considered presently to be the best mode thereof those of ordinary skill will understand and appreciate the existence of variations combinations and equivalents of the specific embodiment method and examples herein. The disclosure should therefore not be limited by the above described embodiment method and examples but by all embodiments and methods within the scope and spirit of the disclosure. All documents referenced herein are hereby incorporated by reference.

