---

title: Identity verification and authentication
abstract: In one embodiment, receiving, at a first computing device associated with a social-networking system and from a second computing device, a first request to verify an identity of a user of the social-networking system; sending, by the first computing device and to a mobile device associated with the user, a second request for information about the user; receiving, at the first computing device and from the mobile device, the information about the user; determining, by the first computing device, a confidence score indicating a probability that the identity of the user is true based on the information about the user received from the mobile device and information available to the social-networking system; and sending, by the first computing device and to the second computing device, the confidence score.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09595057&OS=09595057&RS=09595057
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09595057
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160211
---
This application is a continuation of pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 587 688 filed on 31 Dec. 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 290 585 filed on 7 Nov. 2011 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 966 602 on 24 Feb. 2015.

There are many situations where a party s true identity needs to be verified and authenticated. A typical example of such a situation is during a financial transaction such as when one party the buyer is purchasing some merchandise from another party the seller. When the buyer wishes to pay for the merchandise with a credit card the seller may wish to verify that the buyer s true identity matches the name on the credit card before making a charge on the credit card. On the other hand before giving the seller his credit card or credit card number to pay for the merchandise the buyer may also wish to verify the seller s true identity especially when the purchase is made remotely such as over the telephone or on the Internet. As another example when two people meet for the first time such as at a social function and introduce themselves to each other each person may wish to verify the other person s identity to ensure that the other person is indeed who he says he is before further developing a social relationship with the other person and perhaps divulging personal information to the other person.

In particular embodiments a party s identity is verified and authenticated based on various types of available information. In particular embodiments the available information is associated with a social networking system such as stored with or provided to the social networking system. The party may be a user of the social networking system or may be affiliated or associated with the social networking system. The available information may include for example and without limitation the party s mobile device e.g. a mobile telephone linked to or authenticated by the social networking system the party s access or login identifier ID and password with the social networking system the party s social connections within the social networking system the party s activities e.g. check ins posts messages etc. logged with the social networking system the party s current location and the party s biometric data e.g. finger print voice facial features etc. . Any and all available information when appropriate may be used to verify and authenticate the party s identity.

In particular embodiments a social networking system verifies and authenticates a party s identity when needed e.g. upon receiving a request for such an identity verification and authentication . The social networking system may verify and authenticate the party s identity based on any and all information available to the social networking system. In particular embodiments the social networking system may provide a confidence score indicating the probability that the party s claimed identity is his true identity. For example the confidence score may be a number within a predetermined range such as between 1 and 10 with 10 indicating the highest confidence level and 1 indicating the lowest confidence level.

A social network in general is a social structure made up of entities such as individuals or organizations that are connected by one or more types of interdependency or relationships such as friendship kinship common interest financial exchange dislike or relationships of beliefs knowledge or prestige. In more recent years social networks have taken advantage of the Internet. There are social networking systems existing on the Internet in the form of social networking websites. Such social networking websites enable their members who are commonly referred to as website users to perform various social activities. For example the social networking website operated by Facebook Inc. at www.facebook.com enables its users to communicate with their friends via emails instant messages or blog postings organize social events share photos receive news of their friends or interesting events play games etc. In addition to its users a social networking system may be affiliated with various third parties e.g. partners to the social networking system and enable these third parties to perform certain activities or interactions with its users. For example a third party may supply an application to the social networking system and users of the social networking system may access this application through the social networking system.

To become a user of a social networking system such as the one operated by Facebook Inc. a person needs to establish a user account with the system. The user account may be identified with a unique username or user identifier ID and access to the user account may be controlled with a password. To log into his user account a user must provide the correct combination of username and password. A user of the social networking system may access his user account with the system over a computer or communications network using a network ready device. In particular embodiments the network ready device may be a mobile device such as a mobile telephone. In some cases the mobile device may include dedicated applications specifically designed for accessing the social networking system so that the user may use the services provided by the social networking system with relative ease. For example a user may log into his user account with the social networking system upload images post messages establish social connections and so on using the mobile device. In particular embodiments a user may link his mobile device to his user account with the social networking system or provide information about his mobile device to the social networking system so that the social networking system is aware that this particular mobile device belongs to his particular user.

In particular embodiments when first party desires to verify the identity of second party first party may send a request to social networking system as illustrated in STEP . First party may be associated with a client device . The identity verification request may be sent from client device to a server associated with social networking system over a computer or communications network e.g. the Internet . In particular embodiments client device may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client device . For example and without limitation client device may be a desktop computer system a notebook computer system a netbook computer system a handheld electronic device or a mobile telephone. First party may access a network e.g. the Internet using client device . In particular embodiments server may be a unitary server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example server may host a website associated with social networking system and users of social networking system may access services provided by social networking system through server .

In some implementations the identity verification request from first party to social networking system may include an identity claimed by second party and ask sever to verify whether this claimed identity is indeed the true identity of second party . For example if second party claims that his name is John Smith the identity verification request may include this name and ask sever to verify whether the real name of second party is in fact John Smith .

In particular embodiments second party is a user of social networking system and is associated with a mobile device such as a mobile telephone. In this case the identity verification request from first party to social networking system may optionally further include an identifier of mobile device such as its telephone number or device serial number. Server may use this information to communicate with mobile device .

Upon receiving the identity verification request from first party server may contact mobile device to authenticate mobile device and request various types of information collected by mobile device as illustrated in STEP . In particular embodiments mobile device may support functionalities specifically designed to work with social networking system . In some implementations mobile device may support certain authentication mechanism that enables server to authenticate it as a device known to social networking system and thus trusted by social networking system . Different authentication mechanisms may be employed and this disclosure contemplates any applicable authentication mechanism. For example server may authenticate mobile device through a challenge response process. In this case server sends a challenge question to mobile device and mobile device must respond with the correct answer to the challenge question before it can be authenticated and considered trustworthy. In some implementations the response to the challenge is a cryptographically computed response based on either symmetric e.g. the cryptographic salt or asymmetric cryptography. For example upon receiving a challenge from server mobile device cryptographically computes a response and sends this computed response back to server . As another example mobile device may have an authentication certificate which may be sent to server upon request for authentication purpose. As a third example there may be a secret key stored on mobile device which may be used to authenticate mobile device to server .

In particular embodiments mobile device is supplied or sponsored by social networking system so that a suitable mechanism has been implemented and put in place to enable social networking system to reliably authenticate mobile device when needed. In addition there may be applications residing and executing on mobile device specifically designed to work with social networking system . For example second party being a user of social networking system may log into his user account with social networking system using mobile device . As long as second party remains logged into his user account with social networking system mobile device has access to information stored in the user account including the user ID of second party . Furthermore some applications may implement functionalities that support the identity verification process such as communicating with server collecting and sending relevant information and seeking user permission.

Once server is able to authenticate mobile device as a trustworthy device server may consider information received from mobile device as trustworthy and reliable. Consequently server may use such information to help verify the identity of second party with sufficient confidence. On the other hand if mobile device cannot be authenticated as a reliable device e.g. mobile device has failed to provide the correct response to the challenge question sever may not be able to confidently rely on the information supplied by mobile device . Although such information may still be taken into consideration when server verifies the identity of second party server may need to seek and rely more on information received from other more reliable sources e.g. information stored with social networking system .

Upon receiving the information request from server in particular embodiments mobile device may optionally notify second party that someone e.g. first party is attempting to verify his identity and ask second party whether he permits his information to be sent to sever to be used to verify his identity. This enables second party to control who can verify his identity as well as when his identity can be verified. If second party permits his identity to be verified mobile device may collect the available and applicable information as illustrated in STEP and send the collected information to server as illustrated in STEP . On the other hand if second party does not permit his identity to be verified mobile device may notify server so that server can notify first party that second party does not allow his identity to be verified at this time or by first party .

The specific types of information collected by mobile device may vary e.g. depending on the capabilities of mobile device and this disclosure contemplates any applicable type of information. As one example if second party is currently logged into his user account with social networking system using mobile device it indicates that second party knows the correct combination of username and password to his user account. This in turn suggests that the identity of second party should match the identity provided in his user account with social networking system . In this case the information collected by mobile device and sent to server may include the user ID of the account with social networking system that second party is logged into.

As another example if mobile device includes a location sensor e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS sensor mobile device may determine its current location which is also the current location of second party since mobile device is being carried by second party . In this case the information collected by mobile device and sent to server may include the current location of second party e.g. as represented by the GPS coordinates .

As a third example mobile device may include components e.g. sensors that are capable of collecting biometric information. More specifically if mobile device includes a finger print scanner mobile device may prompt second party to put his thumb against the finger print scanner and take second party s thumb print. If mobile device includes a camera mobile device may prompt second party to take a photograph of his face. If mobile device includes a voice recorder mobile device may prompt second party to speak a sentence and record that sentence. Furthermore the sentence may be a predetermined sentence e.g. similar to a pass code specifically used for verifying second party s identity. In this case the information collected by mobile device and sent to server may include one or more types of biometric data e.g. thumb print face image voice recording etc. .

As a fourth example mobile device may be associated with a Bluetooth device e.g. a Bluetooth earphone or a Bluetooth security dongle . Mobile device may perform a test communication with the Bluetooth device to determine whether the Bluetooth device is within range and nearby. Since Bluetooth devices have a limited communication range if mobile device is able to communicate with its associated Bluetooth device this suggests that both mobile device and the Bluetooth device are being carried by second party which in turn suggests that second party is the actual owner of mobile device . On the other hand if mobile device is not able to communicate with its associated Bluetooth device this suggests that the Bluetooth device is not with second party . Although it is possible that second party is still the actual owner of mobile device and has just forgotten or chosen not to carry the associated Bluetooth device with him at this time this can also suggest that second party may not be the true owner of mobile device because second party does not have the associated Bluetooth device with him. If mobile device has been stolen for example it is less likely that the associated Bluetooth device has also been stolen at the same time by the same person. Thus the thief probably only has mobile device but not the associated Bluetooth device. Thus the information collected by mobile device and sent to server may indicate whether mobile device is able to communicate with its associated Bluetooth device.

Again there are various types of information mobile device may collect and sent to server and this disclosure contemplates any applicable type of information. In some implementations the response mobile device sent to server may include both the answer to the device authentication challenge received from server and the collected information. Mobile device may package all the data together in a communication packet and sent the packet to server . The following is an example packet 

Upon receiving the response e.g. the communication packet from mobile device server may authenticate mobile device and verify the identity of second party based on the information included in the response as well as other information available to server such as information stored with social networking system as illustrated STEP . In verifying the identity of second party server may take into consideration any and all available information. When needed server may request additional information either from second party and mobile device or from other users of social networking system . In particular embodiments server may compute a confidence score that indicates a probability that the true identity of second party matches the identity claimed by second party . The confidence score may be a value within a predetermined range e.g. between 1 and 10 with 10 indicating the highest confidence level and 1 indicating the lowest confidence level . Information that suggests that the true identity of second party matches the identity claimed by second party may help increase the confidence score while information that suggests that the true identity of second party does not match the claimed identity of second party may cause the confidence score to be decreased.

As described above in particular embodiments once server is able to authenticate mobile device e.g. a correct response to the authentication challenge question is included in the response received from mobile device server may consider information provided by mobile device trustworthy and rely on such information to verify the identity of second party .

As an example suppose that the response from mobile device includes the user ID of the account with social networking system that second party is logged into. Server may examine the name provided with the account. If the name in the account matches with the name claimed by second party this may help increase the confidence score and vice versa. Mobile device itself can be used to help verify the identity of second party as well. If second party has linked mobile device to his account with social networking system this may suggest that mobile device is currently being carried by its true owner. Information stored in connection with the user account may help verify the identity of second party . For example server may determine who are friends to second party extract a facial image of second party from photographs uploaded to the user account determine locations recently e.g. within the past 24 hours visited by second party from his check ins and mine keywords from messages posted by second party . All such information may help verify the identity of second party .

As another example suppose that the response from mobile device includes the current location e.g. GPS coordinates of mobile device . Server may examine this current location with the information available to social networking system . Suppose that the information available to social networking system indicates that second party lives and works in Northern California and the current location of mobile device is in San Francisco this may help increase the confidence score. On the other hand if the current location of mobile device is somewhere in Nigeria this may cause the confidence score to decrease especially if there is no indication based on all available information that second party is currently traveling in that country. In addition suppose that second party has performed a check in to social networking system at a restaurant in Oakland recently e.g. within the past 8 hours this further suggests that the person having mobile device is not the real second party as the same person cannot be on two different continents at about the same time.

In some implementations based on the current location of mobile device server may determine whether there are other mobile devices associated with other users of social networking system currently at the same location. If so there may be other users of social networking system who are currently with second party . These users are likely to know second party personally since they are with him. In this case server may send requests to these other mobile devices and ask these other users to verify whether the person they are with is indeed second party . An affirmative response from such a user may help increase the confidence score. In addition server may send messages to other users of social networking system who are friends of second party even if these other users are not currently with second party . Server may ask the friends of second party whether they know where second party is currently located. If a friend answers with a location that matches the current location of mobile device this may help increase the confidence score.

As a third example suppose that the response from mobile device includes biometric data. Sever may process such data to help verify the identity of second party . For example if the biometric data include a photograph of the face of second party server may process the photograph to perform facial recognition. Server may compare the face in the photograph with other photographs uploaded to social networking system either by second party himself or by other users of social networking system who are friends of second party . If the face in the photograph matches the face of second party in the other photographs this may help increase the confidence score. Similarly if the biometric data include a thumb print and there is a thumb print of second party on file with social networking system server may compare the two thumb prints. A match may help increase the confidence score and vice versa. If the biometric data include a voice recording server may perform voice recognition and compare the voice recording against the voice of second party on file with social networking system if any. Again a match may help increase the confidence score.

Once server has computed a confidence score that indicates the confidence level of the identity of second party based on any and all available information server may send this confidence score to first party as illustrated in STEP .

The process of verifying a party s identity as illustrated in has many practical applications. A typical scenario is during a financial transaction such as when one party the buyer is purchasing some merchandise from another party the seller. For example suppose that a user of a social networking system is purchasing a computer from a merchant who is also affiliated with the social networking system. The user wishes to pay for the computer with a credit card. For such a transaction the user and the merchant may be located at the same location e.g. the user is buying the computer in the merchant s store or at different locations e.g. the user is ordering the computer online or over the telephone . In either case the social networking system may help the two parties verify each other s identity based on the process illustrated in .

In some implementations credit card terminal sends an identity verification request to server associated with social networking system . The request may include the name of merchant and the name claimed by user . Server sends a request to mobile device to authenticate mobile device and request information from mobile device . The request may also include the name of merchant .

In some implementations upon receiving the request mobile device first notifies user e.g. through a pop up window that merchant is attempting to verify his identity and ask user whether he permits his identity to be verified by merchant . This gives user the option to control who can verify his identity. Consequently this option requires some interaction from user . Alternatively in some implementations mobile device does not specifically seek permission from user in order to proceed with the identity verification process. This option does not require any interaction from user during the identity verification process. A user may choose which option he prefers e.g. depending on whether he wishes to be troubled with the identity verification process .

Suppose that user has granted the permission. Mobile device collects the available and applicable information e.g. as described in connection with and sends the response to the authentication challenge and the collected information to server . Based on the information received from mobile device and information available to social networking system server computes a confidence score and send the score to credit card terminal . For example as a part of the identity verification process since user is purchasing a computer server may ask friends of user whether user has discussed purchasing a computer with them recently. If so this may help increase the confidence score. Credit card terminal may decide whether to proceed with the transaction based on the confidence score received from server . For example there may be a predetermined threshold score e.g. . If the confidence score satisfies the threshold score credit card terminal may proceed with the transaction and charge the credit card provided by user . Otherwise credit card terminal may decline the credit card. In this case merchant may have the option of seeking additional identification from user e.g. asking for user s driver s license or other types of identification documents .

In some implementations if both credit card terminal and mobile device have Bluetooth transmitter and receiver they may be able to exchange signals and information using the Bluetooth protocol. Since Bluetooth has a limited range being able to communicate using Bluetooth indicates that the two devices are in close proximity to each other.

Similar to server may contact mobile device associated with user in order to authenticate mobile device and request relevant information from mobile device . Server may notify mobile device the name of merchant so that user can learn who is attempting to verify his identity. Again mobile device may optionally notify user the name of merchant who is attempting to verify user s identity and seek permission from user before sending information about user to server . Server may use the information received from mobile device as well as information available to social networking system to compute a confidence score for verifying the identity of user e.g. as described in connection with and send this confidence score to server associated with merchant .

Since there is a credit card transaction involved in the purchasing process a credit card agency may be involved who is responsible for authorizing and making the actual charge to the credit card account for a specified amount. In some implementations server may also forward the confidence score to a server associated with credit card agency . Server may decide whether to authorize and make the actual charge to the credit card account based on the confidence score. Again there may be a predetermined threshold score e.g. . If the confidence score satisfies the threshold score server may proceed with making the charge to the credit card account. Otherwise server may reject the charge.

In particular embodiments mobile device may include applications e.g. provided by individual merchants that enable user to purchase merchandise from various merchants using mobile device . Each application may be identified by a unique application ID. Such an application may include a feature that verifies either automatically or upon user request the identity of a merchant for user when user is purchase merchandise from that merchant. The process of verifying the identity of a merchant is similar to the process of verifying a user e.g. as described in connection with . For example mobile device may send a request to server identifying the merchant whose identity is to be verified. The request may also include the ID of the application executing on mobile device . Server may request relevant information from the merchant and compute a confidence score based on any and all available information. This confidence score is then sent to mobile device and displayed to user . User can decide whether to disclose his credit card number to the merchant based on the confidence score.

Typically the credit card agency charges merchants a fee for each credit card transaction. The fee is usually a percentage of the amount of transaction e.g. 4 of the total charge . When a merchant employs an identity verification process such as the one described in connection with to verify the identity of each customer before making a credit card charge it may help decrease the amount of fraudulent credit card usage which in turn helps save money for the credit card agency. Consequently a merchant employing an identity verification process may be able to negotiate with the credit card agency for a lower fee because with the identity verification process the merchant ensures as much as possible that only legitimate charges go through.

Another scenario where identity verification is useful may be during social settings. As an example when two people meet at a party for the first time they may introduce themselves to each other. If both of them are users of social networking system and carry mobile devices they may verify each other s identity before divulging personal information to each other. As another example often a user of social networking system may receive a friend request from another user. The other user may claim his name is for example John Smith . Before adding the second user as his friend the first user may wish to verify that the second user s name is really John Smith or the second user is the specific John Smith known to the first user instead of some other John Smith .

Particular embodiments may be implemented on one or more computer systems. illustrates an example computer system which may implement server associated with social networking system . In particular embodiments one or more computer systems perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments one or more computer systems provide functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments software running on one or more computer systems performs one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein or provides functionality described or illustrated herein. Particular embodiments include one or more portions of one or more computer systems .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate. Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCIe bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA C or C . In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

