---

title: System and method for remote presentation
abstract: Systems and methods for creating call reports which may allow a sales user to remotely present content to HCP users. Information for scheduling a remote meeting may be received from an application for creating call report on a first user computing device, a request for remote meeting may be sent to a conference system, and a group meeting ID may be received from the conference system. An individual meeting ID and an individual meeting invitation for the at least one invitee may be generated. The meeting invitation may include a link for the remote meeting. When the at least one invitee clicks on the link in the invitation, he/she is added to the remote meeting. The content is transmitted via the conference system, but no user interface of the conference system is displayed during the remote meeting.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09635072&OS=09635072&RS=09635072
owner: Veeva Systems Inc.
number: 09635072
owner_city: Pleasanton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20161228
---
The present application is a continuation in part of U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 15 341 901 filed on Nov. 2 2016 entitled System and Method for Remote Presentation which is hereby incorporated by reference herein for all purposes.

The subject technology relates generally to customer relationship management CRM and more particularly to presenting content remotely.

In the pharmaceutical sales industry sales representatives are required to use call reports to record meetings and other interactions with doctors including face to face meetings and discussions via phone or the Internet and the call reports need to include the doctors professional information the medical products discussed the materials shown to the doctors the samples left etc. Non compliant call reports may expose company employers e.g. a pharmaceutical company to regulatory penalties or other legal liabilities. Since more and more marketing materials include slide shows presentations and video it is desirable to enable sales representatives to present such content remotely and generate compliant call reports.

The disclosed subject matter relates to a method for creating a call report. The method comprises receiving information for scheduling a remote meeting from an application for creating call report on a first user computing device wherein the information for scheduling the remote meeting comprises time of the remote meeting and identity information of at least one invitee of the remote meeting. The method further comprises sending a request for remote meeting to a conference system wherein the request for remote meeting includes information of the at least one invitee. The method further comprises receiving a group meeting ID from the conference system wherein the group meeting ID is generated by the conference system for the remote meeting. The method further comprises generating an individual meeting ID for the at least one invitee generating a meeting invitation for the at least one invitee wherein the meeting invitation incorporates the individual meeting ID. The method further comprises receiving a request to join the remote meeting from a second user computing device.

The detailed description set forth below is intended as a description of various configurations of the subject technology and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the subject technology may be practiced. The appended drawings are incorporated herein and constitute a part of the detailed description. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of the subject technology. However the subject technology is not limited to the specific details set forth herein and may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the concepts of the subject technology.

The user computing devices may be any machine or system that is used by a user to access the CRM via the network and may be any commercially available computing devices including laptop computers desktop computers mobile phones smart phones tablet computers netbooks and personal digital assistants PDAs . A CRM client application may run from a user computing device e.g. and access the CRM via the network to create a call report. A second CRM client application may run from a user computing device e.g. to join a remote meeting with the user computing device . In one implementation the second CRM client application may not have access to the customer account information in the CRM subsystem or be used to create a call report. User computing devices are illustrated in more detail in .

The content repository may store content that a user e.g. a sales representative may access via a client application e.g. in a user computing device e.g. and show to another user e.g. a health care professional HCP via a second client application e.g. in another user computing device e.g. and may be any commercially available storage devices. In an embodiment the content repository is a cloud based or distributed network based system for consolidating an enterprise s data oftentimes integrating multiple content repositories in an enterprise into a single system having coordinated control measuring and auditing of data creation access and distribution. In an embodiment this content repository may include specific data collections for the life sciences industry although it may store content for other industries. In one embodiment the content repository may provide an end to end solution for the development approval distribution expiration and withdrawal of promotional materials. In one embodiment the content repository may store marketing materials including slides presentations and video. In one embodiment the content repository may include a Closed Loop Marketing CLM system.

The customer relationship management server is typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the network and may provide access to the customer relationship management subsystem . The customer relationship management server could be any commercially available computing devices. A client application e.g. process may be active on one or more user computing devices . The corresponding server process may be active on the customer relationship management server . The client application process and the corresponding server process may communicate with each other over the network thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple client applications to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the CRM .

In one implementation the customer relationship management server may include a call report controller which may control the process for generating a call report and a remote presentation controller which may control the process for remotely presenting marketing materials including slides presentations and video as will be described with reference to below.

Although the customer relationship management server the call report controller and the remote presentation controller are shown in one device it should be understood that they may be implemented in multiple servers.

In one implementation the customer relationship management subsystem contains customer account information that may be available to sales representatives. The customer account information may be HCP professional information including their license area of practice and contact information. In addition to storing HCP professional information the customer relationship management subsystem may also be capable of storing configurations regarding specific preferences regulatory limitations and requirements and other fields that will facilitate communications in general or on a by recipient basis.

In one implementation the customer relationship management subsystem is capable of communicating with multiple sources through the customer relationship management server or through other channels to maintain a current and accurate collection of information regarding customer accounts which may include group accounts and individual accounts. The interface with the multiple sources can be for example through an Application Programming Interface or API as the API interface will allow compatibility with a flexible array of third party provider servers. The information being updated may include but is not limited to licensing information area of practice and location of the various customer accounts. In this manner the customer relationship management subsystem pulls the approved version of what represents an account which may be a hospital or physician which then pulls from multiple networks to ensure that the information regarding an account is up to date.

In one implementation the customer relationship management subsystem may be operated by a third party.

In one implementation the CRM may be a multi tenant system where various elements of hardware and software may be shared by one or more customers. For instance a server may simultaneously process requests from a plurality of customers. In a multi tenant system a user is typically associated with a particular customer. In one example a user could be an employee of one of a number of pharmaceutical companies which are tenants or customers of the CRM .

Although the embodiments are described with a customer relationship management subsystem the customer information and content may be from other types of information management systems e.g. a Closed Loop Marketing CLM system.

In one embodiment the CRM and the content repository may run on a cloud computing platform. Users can access information and content on the cloud independently by using a virtual machine image or purchasing access to a service maintained by a cloud database provider. The customer relationship management subsystem may be a cloud based customer database that provides a central access to store and distribute consistent data across customer companies as well as their possible third party partners and agencies that are used to keep this data updated. This system can provide standard data formats and provide an easy and automated way for customers to have access to coordinated and frequently updated CRM data.

In one embodiment the CRM may be provided as Software as a Service SaaS to allow users to access it with a thin client.

The processing unit may be configured to execute computer instructions that are stored in a computer readable medium for example the system memory . The processing unit may be a central processing unit CPU .

The system memory typically includes a variety of computer readable media which may be any available media accessible by the processing unit . For instance the system memory may include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . By way of example but not limitation the system memory may store instructions and data e.g. an operating system program modules various application programs and program data.

A user can enter commands and information to the computing device through the input device . The input device may be e.g. a keyboard a touchscreen input device a touch pad a mouse a microphone and or a pen.

The computing device may provide its output via the output device which may be e.g. a monitor or other type of display device a speaker or a printer.

The computing device through the network interface may operate in a networked or distributed environment using logical connections to one or more other computing devices which may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device a smart phone or any other media consumption or transmission device and may include any or all of the elements described above. The logical connections may include a network e.g. the network and or buses. The network interface may be configured to allow the computing device to transmit and receive data in a network for example the network . The network interface may include one or more network interface cards NICs .

At a call report may be created by a sales user on a first user computing device e.g. . A first user interface shown in may be displayed on the first user computing device for the sales user to enter call report information e.g. HCP information call owner call address and product priorities. The user interface may be a graphical user interface GUI . The first user interface may include a button for scheduling a remote meeting.

At the sales user may click on the button to schedule a remote meeting and a second user interface may be displayed. The second user interface may include areas for the sales user to input remote meeting information e.g. the time subject and one or more invitees of the remote meeting. The one or more invitees may be selected by the sales user from HCP users assigned to his her territory in the CRM subsystem . The second user interface may also have an area for the sales user to input a message to the invitees. In one implementation meeting scheduling function of a conference system e.g. Zoom may be used to schedule the meeting.

At a request for remote meeting including information of the sales user and the invitee s time and subject may be sent by the remote presentation controller to the conference system .

At a remote meeting may be generated by the conference system and a group meeting ID may be returned from the conference system to the remote presentation controller . The group meeting ID may be e.g. 10003829.

At an individual meeting ID for each invitee may be generated by the remote presentation controller . The individual meeting ID may be e.g. veeva.com j v000123 for Dr. Clinton Ackerman as shown in . Each individual meeting ID may include a unique identifier of an invitee e.g. v000123 for Dr. Clinton Ackerman. In one implementation the individual meeting ID is generated in response to the group meeting ID and is associated with the group meeting ID but does not include the group meeting ID.

At remote meeting information which may have the group meeting ID from the conference system time subject the individual meeting IDs and attendees may be stored in the CRM subsystem and in the sales user s calendar as well.

At an individual meeting invitation may be generated by the remote presentation controller for each invitee. In one implementation the individual meeting invitation may include the individual meeting ID for the invitee. In one implementation the individual meeting invitation may include a link for the remote meeting and the link is generated for each invitee based on his her individual meeting ID as will be described below with reference to .

At a third user interface may be generated and displayed. As shown a button for sending the individual meeting invitations and a button for starting the remote meeting may be added to the first user interface .

At the individual meeting invitations may be sent from the first user computing device to each invitee via e.g. an email a message or an SMS. illustrates an example of an email received by an invitee. As shown the email may include a link for the remote meeting and the link may include the individual meeting ID veeva.com j v000123. An invitee may click on the link to join the remote meeting. The meeting invitation may be added to each attendee s calendar.

At a fourth user interface as shown in may be displayed on the first user computing device when the sales user initiates the remote meeting at the meeting time e.g. by clicking on the start button . The fourth user interface may include an area for the sales user to present remotely and an area for displaying status of the attendees e.g. joined speaking and mute .

At a request to join the remote meeting may be received from a second user computing device e.g. when the HCP user e.g. Dr. Clinton Ackerman clicks on the link in his meeting invitation.

The requester may then be verified. In one implementation the remote presentation controller may identify the requester from the link he she clicked on at since the link includes his her unique identifier e.g. v000123 for Dr. Clinton Ackerman. At one or more verification questions may be created based on the invitee s professional information. In one example a list of office addresses office phone numbers or healthcare organization names may be displayed and the requester may be asked to choose one associated with him her.

In one implementation the remote presentation controller may access the CRM system to get the requester s professional information to generate the verification questions since the invitee s professional information e.g. license area of practice and contact information is stored in the CRM system as customer account information.

In one implementation the remote presentation controller may access a Master Data Management MDM system to get the requester s professional information to generate the verification questions. The MDM system may store HCP professional information e.g. license area of practice and contact information . A data steward service may be used to verify and maintain the master data in the MDM and make it accurate and up to date. The MDM may be maintained by an MDM provider e.g. OpenData provided by Veeva Systems Inc.

At a response from the requester may be received and compared with the invitee s professional information in the CRM system or an MDM system.

Otherwise at it may be determined if the CRM client application for HCP users is installed on the second user computing device . If the CRM client application for HCP users is installed on the second user computing device the process may process to .

If the CRM client application for HCP users is not installed on the second user computing device at a pop up window may be displayed on the second user computing device to suggest the HCP user to install the CRM client application for the HCP users.

At the CRM subsystem may be updated to indicate that the CRM client application is registered with the HCP user e.g. via the HCP user s email address. In one implementation the unique identifier of the HCP user may also be stored in the CRM for validating the HCP user in his her future interaction with the CRM . In one implementation when the verification question is based on information from an MDM system the record of the HCP user in the MDM system may be associated with his her unique identifier.

At a fifth user interface may be displayed on the second user computing device . The fifth user interface may include an area for displaying meeting information e.g. subject of the meeting and status of the attendees e.g. joined speaking mute and presenting . The fifth user interface may also include an area for displaying content presented remotely from the first user computing device . To make sure that the call would not cause any compliant issue the fifth user interface does not display anything other than the meeting information and the content presented from the first user computing device . When the sales user is not online has not started the meeting or the first user computing device is displaying a screen other than the remote meeting a welcome screen including only the meeting information and a welcome message may be displayed on the second user computing device to prevent compliance issues.

At the sales user may start the remote presentation in the area . A conference system e.g. Zoom may be used for transmitting signals between the user computing device and the user computing device . In one implementation the group meeting ID is used for identifying signals transmitted between the remote meeting controller and the conference system . In one implementation the transmission function of the conference system may be embedded in the CRM client applications and so that the HCP user can rely on the CRM client application for the call and remote presentation without having to install an application of the conference system separately. The HCP user would not see any user interface of the conference system either.

The content presented may be stored in the content repository or on the first user computing device . In one implementation the remote presentation controller may check the content to be presented and only enable presentation that the sales user is authorized to present.

At marketing materials in various format e.g. video portable document format PDF PowerPoint web content html and drawings may be displayed on the fourth user interface and the fifth user interface .

At a call report may be generated. The call report may include information of the content presented in an area as shown in the sixth user interface shown in . The call report may also include messages follow up activities and call expenses.

At the HFCP user s account information in the CRM subsystem may be updated to include information about the call and or presentation.

The above described features and applications can be implemented as software processes that are specified as a set of instructions recorded on a computer readable storage medium also referred to as computer readable medium . When these instructions are executed by one or more processing unit s e.g. one or more processors cores of processors or other processing units they cause the processing unit s to perform the actions indicated in the instructions. Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to CD ROMs flash drives RAM chips hard drives EPROMs etc. The computer readable media does not include carrier waves and electronic signals passing wirelessly or over wired connections.

These functions described above can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in computer software firmware or hardware. The techniques can be implemented using one or more computer program products. Programmable processors and computers can be included in or packaged as mobile devices. The processes and logic flows can be performed by one or more programmable processors and by one or more programmable logic circuitry. General and special purpose computing devices and storage devices can be interconnected through communication networks.

In this specification the term software is meant to include firmware residing in read only memory or applications stored in magnetic storage which can be read into memory for processing by a processor. Also in some implementations multiple software technologies can be implemented as sub parts of a larger program while remaining distinct software technologies. In some implementations multiple software technologies can also be implemented as separate programs. Finally any combination of separate programs that together implement a software technology described here is within the scope of the subject technology. In some implementations the software programs when installed to operate on one or more electronic systems define one or more specific machine implementations that execute and perform the operations of the software programs. Examples of computer programs or computer code include machine code for example is produced by a compiler and files including higher level code that are executed by a computer an electronic component or a microprocessor using an interpreter.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

As used in this specification and any claims of this application the terms computer server processor and memory all refer to electronic or other technological devices. These terms exclude people or groups of people. For the purposes of the specification the terms display or displaying means displaying on an electronic device. As used in this specification and any claims of this application the terms computer readable medium and computer readable media are entirely restricted to tangible physical objects that store information in a form that is readable by a computer. These terms exclude any wireless signals wired download signals and any other ephemeral signals.

It is understood that any specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of example approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged or that all illustrated steps be performed. Some of the steps may be performed simultaneously. For example in certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components illustrated above should not be understood as requiring such separation and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims where reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more.

