---

title: Calendar integration with text messaging to facilitate no-time-specified events
abstract: A text based communication from a sender to a recipient is analyzed to automatically detect a no-specific-time (NST) text segment within the text communication. Responsive to detecting the NTS text segment, establishment of a firm time consistent with the NST text segment based on availability of the recipient per an electronic calendar of the recipient, referred to hereafter as the recipient's calendar, is programmatically facilitated. The NST text segment references a future time for a gathering that is lacks a specific date and time. Facilitating establishment of the firm time includes accessing an electronic calendar of the recipient, which is maintained by a server independent of a communication server responsible for sending and receiving communications for the recipient.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09443232&OS=09443232&RS=09443232
owner: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
number: 09443232
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160225
---
The present invention relates to the field of text messaging and calendaring and more particularly to calendar integration with text messaging e.g. SMS texts to facilitate no time specified events.

People utilize text messaging or texting to compose send and receive brief electronic messages between two devices often mobile phones. Text messaging is typically conveyed over a phone network e.g. using a short messaging service referred to as SMS using Multimedia Messaging Service referred to as MMS and the like. By definition text messaging is a fast light weight communication mechanism which is one of its principle advantages and distinctions over competing technologies such as email messaging. This light weight nature means that conventionally there is no integration between a text messaging application and other applications which is a situation different from what exists with robust communication systems like integrated messaging. Robust communication systems often integrate email messaging with task management calendaring and other such functions. These functions are often distinct from each other yet found in a common application even though these various functions share the same communication technologies network e.g. TCP IP over an IP network and utilize the same back end server.

What is needed is a way to bridge the different communication technologies to make it easier to plan for a time unspecified future gathering. Specifically to reduce an end user overhead to facilitate scheduling without requiring an end user to take a series of actions across different applications. This would be especially advantageous to short communication mechanisms like text messaging where often a user legitimately plans to get together with another yet fails to follow up on an initial communication so that no meeting ever takes place which is a common occurrence.

One aspect of the present invention can include a system a computer program product and a method for a text messaging program comprising processor executable instructions stored in a non transitory storage media. The text messaging program includes a text communication interface a content analyzer a calendar integration module and a recipient presentation interface. The text communication interface sends and receives text based communications conveyed through a short messaging service SMS gateway between at least a sender and a recipient. The content analyzer for programmatically analyzes the text based communications conveyed through the SMS gateway. The content analyzer automatically detects no specific time NST text segments within text messages from the sender to the recipient. The content analyzer responsive to detections of NTS text segments programmatically facilitates establishes a firm time consistent with the NST text segment based on availability of the recipient per an electronic calendar of the recipient. NST text segments reference a future time for a gathering that lacks a specific date and time. The calendar integration module provides the text messaging program access to an electronic calendar of the recipient referred to hereafter as the recipient s calendar. The access includes search capabilities of the electronic calendar to automatically determine one or more specific time slots consistent with the NTS text segment to facilitate establishing the firm time. The one or more specific time slots are automatically determined non conflicting time frames for which the recipient is available per entries of the recipient s calendar. The one or more time slots are not manually entered by the sender by the recipient or by any human. The recipient presentation interface automatically presents the one or more time slots to the recipient of the NTS text segments. The recipient presentation interface is programmatically integrated with the text communication interface.

Another aspect of the present invention can include a method a computer program product and a system for integrating calendar scheduling and text messages. In this aspect a text based communication from a sender to a recipient is analyzed to automatically detect a no specific time NST text segment within the text communication. Responsive to detecting the NTS text segment establishment of a firm time consistent with the NST text segment based on availability of the recipient per an electronic calendar of the recipient referred to hereafter as the recipient s calendar is programmatically facilitated. The NST text segment references a future time for a gathering that is lacks a specific date and time. Facilitating establishment of the firm time includes accessing an electronic calendar of the recipient which is maintained by a server independent of a communication server responsible for sending and receiving communications for the recipient. Facilitating establishment of the firm time also includes automatically determining one or more specific time slots consistent with the NTS text segment to facilitate establishing the firm time. The one or more specific time slots are automatically determined non conflicting time frames for which the recipient is available per entries of the recipient s calendar. The one or more time slots are not manually entered by the sender by the recipient or by any human. Facilitating establishment of the firm time also includes presenting the text message to the recipient through a graphical user interface of a text communication application. Facilitating establishment of the firm time also includes presenting the one or more time slots to the recipient via the graphical user interface of the text communication application.

Embodiments of the disclosure integrate text messaging communications occurring via a short messaging service SMS gateway with an end user s calendar which is maintained in a separate server account. The disclosure represents an improvement on SMS based communications in that SMS communications text messages are automatically analyzed to detect a time unspecified future gathering. This type of text message is referred to herein as a no time specified text or NTS text. Upon a text message being analyzed to determine content that a NTS text has been received a recipient s calendar maintained electronically on a system independent from the text messaging one is searched for suitable time slots for a gathering. This information about the end user s availability is conveyed to the NTS text recipient. In one embodiment the recipient of the NTS text is prompted with their own availability per their schedule. For example in one embodiment a fly over window automatically appears next to the NTS content of the text which shows one or more possible time frames for the gathering. In another embodiment a responsive text inserting the date is automatically constructed for recipient approval before this new text is sent. In one embodiment when a recipient can be prompted to accept the suggested time from their text messaging application at which point the time is automatically scheduled in the recipient s calendar. Thus responsive to the recipient receiving the NTS text a new entry is automatically created in the recipient s calendaring system. Importantly this new entry is for a specific non conflicting time given the recipient s schedule that nether neither the recipient nor the sender of the NTS message explicitly suggested. The scheduling facilitator e.g. calendar integration module can have access to the recipient s calendar and not the sender s calendar in one embodiment. This is due to multiple independent systems being utilized to maintain calendaring information which is confidential information for which an authorization such as a password and account is required. The text messaging system can have access to the recipient s calendar but not that of the sender due to these access restrictions. Similarly privacy of the recipient s calendar can be retained in embodiments of the disclosure since all facilitating of the scheduling in contemplated embodiments is recipient side only so that the recipient s calendaring information is not exposed to the sender in any manner. For example a recipient may have availability but may not wish to meet with the sender in which case the sender is never apprised of the availability and the recipient can obscure their availability as if desired during the text exchange with the sender.

In one example the NTS text can include let s get together next week or let s do lunch soon which alludes to a future time yet which is ambiguous in this regard requiring a firming time to be established. A user can be prompted for their own availability to find a convenient time within the alluded to time frame. In embodiments the system can learn from a particular user s behavior to distinguish between non committal responses that a recipient really doesn t want to schedule and those of significant interest to a recipient. Thus the disclosure s technological improvement to traditional text messaging can be designed to be minimally intrusive and non cumbersome to an end user.

In one contemplated embodiment a level of access can be granted to the calendars of both the sender and recipient and a suggested time can be one that is available per both calendars which facilitates the future gathering alluded to in the NTS text. Promptings and pop ups can be implemented as a background process separate from the text messaging application in embodiments of the disclosure. In various embodiments a distinguishing visual indicator such as color coding highlighting changing front showing an icon and the like can be included intra text to indicate the suggested time of availability per the calendar application.

In embodiments the disclosure can add an auto fill in or autocorrecting metaphor where spelling grammar is corrected to scheduling events responsive to text communications. For example in one contemplated embodiment a text message can actually include a specified time which conflicts with a calendar entry where the conflict is shown to the recipient via the text messaging interface. A suggested message can be constructed where the system automatically detects the potential conflict for a possible time that is non conflicting with the end user s schedule.

The disclosure s technology improvements for text messaging improves conflict less scheduling reduces unnecessary conversations pertaining to schedules minimizes end user coordination and provides a highly portable scheduling aid that targets text messaging communications. Appreciatively the disclosure can be adapted for other modes of communication such as chat forums social media communications verbal communications email and the like which are to be considered as embodiments within scope of this disclosure.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions.

These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Presentation of the NST text segment may be provided within a graphical user interface of application in a number of contemplated ways. For example the NST text segment e.g. next week may be visually distinguished e.g. highlighting underlining bolding changing font color etc. automatically upon being automatically detected. The presentation can be followed by showing a set of one or more time slots as automatically generated suggestions for converting the vague next week reference to a firm time. This firm time can be one that is non conflicting with the recipient s calendar . The time slots can be ones open per the recipient s calendar . In one embodiment calendar entry of calendar importance can be evaluated relative to the import of the proposed gathering suggested by the NST text segment and time slots of lesser relative import can be suggested as candidate time slots even when conflicting scheduled events are present. In one embodiment the one or more time slots can be presented in an on hover appearing disappearing text box upon hovering a pointer over the NST text segment e.g. next week . One or more options may be provided to select among the time slots . As shown a check box may be presented proximate to each. In another embodiment a tap or click selection can be enabled for each GUI element showing a time slot . Once a selection of a time slot is made one or more actions can be provided to the recipient via a GUI of messaging app .

In one embodiment the scheduling facilitation availability to the recipient remains obscured or unavailable to the sender. That is the sender and sending device is not presented with any recipient calendar insights unless the recipient chooses to present this information to the sender via a subsequent message or response. Similarly the sender s calendar is inaccessible to the recipient or to the messaging system. This obscuring of information is significant as often a meeting is more or less important to one party than the other and a level at which the recipient must reschedule to make a given meeting or is unwilling to meet despite availability is unknown and remains unknown to the sender.

One user selectable options presented in the GUI includes an Accept action which links the selected time slot shown as item for Friday 1 00 3 00 to the NST text segment e.g. next week . In one embodiment the SMS message as stored for the communication session can be modified to include the selected time slot which is referred to hereafter as a firm time for the meeting gathering event. A database in one embodiment can establish and store an associative table entry between the text segment and or message and the firm time as a response of the Action selection. Selection of the schedule option can place the firm time for a new entry into the recipient s calendar . In another embodiment where access to the sender s calendar is provided a new entry for the firm time can also or alternatively be placed in the sender s calendar responsive to selection of the schedule option . When access is granted to the sender s calendar the time slots that are determined by the system can be non conflicting with the sender s calendar as well as being non conflicting with entries of recipient s calendar . Selection of the text option sends a message e.g. an SMS response to message to the sender e.g. sender s device that includes the firm date. This responsive message may be automatically generated e.g. How about Friday 1 00 3 00 and or can be partially generated as a message which the recipient can edit and send through messaging app .

Pseudo code represents high level programmatic instructions contemplated for the NST text segment identification and facilitation of firm date establishment is shown in . The pseudo code can repeat during a communication session such as SMS session for each conveyed message e.g. SMS message . First the text being conveyed can be captured as shown by the GET command. The message is analyzed using the text as input to generate a flag and a gathering range. The flag can be a BOOLEAN indicating whether a NST text segment is present in the text or not. When it is present a range for an event of the NST text segment can be determined and returned. This can require a duration for the gathering be determined estimated as well as determining a potential start and end date corresponding to the NST text segment. For example if next week is included in the NST segment then the start and end dates can be for Monday Friday of the week following that of a time at which the message was sent. The get together can be inferred in context to represent a lunch dinner event having a duration of 2 hours. The duration can be determined inferred from past events from the calendar involving the recipient and or sender in one embodiment. In another embodiment a series of preferences rules and defaults can be used to determine the duration.

Turning back to the pseudo code no action is taken unless a NST text segment is identified. If an NST text segment is identified FLAG TRUE then a set of time slots e.g. slots can be found given the recipient s calendar and the gathering range e.g. estimated duration . These slots can be presented to the GUI of messaging app which can receive a selection a firm time an event and one or more actions e.g. . If the Flag from the presentation is FALSE no firm time is selected and not actions are to be taken responsive to presenting the time slots to the recipient via the GUI of messaging app . If Flag is TRUE and if an Action is to accept one of the time slots as a firm time the firm time is associated to the text or to the NST text segment . IF the action is to schedule a new event is added to the recipient s calendar having the firm date. In one embodiment additional event elements can be prompted for via the GUI which can be the GUI of the SMS application in an embodiment . If the Action is to Text or send the message to the sender with the firm date a message to that effect e.g. a SMS message can be conveyed. Appreciably the pseudo code is intended for exemplary purposes and alternatives derivatives are contemplated herein.

As used herein a NST text segment is a portion of a message such as conveyed between two or more devices during a communication session involving those devices. The NST text segment references a future time for a gathering e.g. a meeting event etc. that lacks a specific date and time able to be used to calendar the gathering within a recipient s calendar and or sender s calendar . For example a range of times can imply a level of ambiguity with regard to the specific time that is unable to be handled by a calendaring program system assuming specific defined time slots are required to schedule an event within such a calendaring program system . For example next week is an indefinite reference to a specific time for a gathering meeting event that is consuming significantly less time than the entire week. Such phases are often used during communications which in context semantically implies or means that the exact meeting time firm time is not yet specified. Further depending on context next week can imply a time within the next two weeks or month. This context can be determined from defined rules e.g. within pseudo code and or server analyzer or module . Other NST text segments can reflect a tentative arrangement such as some time or about noon which in context reflects an uncertainty yet to be decided upon but resolved by establishing a firm time after the system discovers time slot availability within the calendar s . Other NST times can be established by context such as we should get together for your birthday where the calendars denote the date of birth and logic embodied in the system determines a suitable set of time slots for this NST event.

Although the system focuses on establishing a time slot for a NST event embodiments of the disclosure contemplate the system suggesting via time slot s a number of concrete events for an ambiguous statement that correspond where relevant durations are indicated for the events. For example a NST text segment of lets hang out soon can be translated into automatically generated events suggested appearing as time slots for example such as see a specific movie at a specific time ones where the movie selected is based on logic known to apply to both sender and receiver and where the time is based on local availability posted online. Other possible events can be prompted for such as See Les Miserables where the times for available performances of the musical are checked against calendar availability. In such an instance a selection of this time slot for Les Miserables can dynamically alter the selectable actions to include purchase tickets for self sender consistent with the time slot. Thus the establishment of specifics can be automated utilizing logic included into embodiments of the disclosure. Stated differently the actions presented for the specific time slots can be dynamic and can vary depending on which of the time slots is selected in one embodiment of the disclosure.

One embodiment of the disclosure can automatically detect conflicts during text communications e.g. SMS ones between planned times including NST text segments and other segments with firm times included and the sender s recipient s calendars and can automatically prompt notify the sender recipient of this conflict. For example if the sender started to SMS text How about lunch at on Friday to the recipient a popup notification can be presented to the sender of a conflict before the text was conveyed such as NOTICE you have planned lunch with your wife at noon on Friday would you still like to send This provides an advanced warning of a scheduling conflict that the sender may not be aware of before a time is provided. In such an instance an alternate set of non conflicting times can be found suggested automatically. Thus embodiments of the invention can enable an innovation analogous to an autocorrect that automatically detects scheduling conflicts and tries to ameliorate them whenever a communicator sender or receiver is specifying dates during a SMS communication. Thus embodiments of the invention contemplate the active detection of dates during SMS communications an active checking of related schedules per accessible calendars and prompting users of these conflicts to minimize conflict occurrences. In one embodiment an action able to be taken can be to rearrange a schedule to change an existing appointment to ensure a desired time slot related to a message is no longer conflicting. This feature can be highly useful when attempting to schedule a meeting between two people who have extremely full schedules where in absence of a rearrangement feature finding an open time for a contemplated meeting is challenging to non viable within the expected meeting range. When no times are available a prompting to the same such as your schedule is full no time slots open to the recipient sender can occur. In one embodiment a suggestion to change an aspect of the NST text segment such as an activity requiring a lesser duration that increases the number of candidate time slots per the calendar s is implemented within system .

In step the sender s message can be displayed in a GUI of a text messaging client of the recipient. The NST text segment can be indicated visually to highlight a possible but not firm meeting in the future. In one embodiment time slots automatically generated per steps can be incorporated into the text of the message seen in the recipient s text messaging client via the GUI . Numerous GUI mechanisms are contemplated as alternatives such as providing a hover over event linked to the NST text segment where hovering a pointer shows the time slots. Icon s and or other selectable click able touch able GUI elements can be included for selective display of the time slots. In another embodiment a linkage to entries of the recipient s calendar can also be displayed for user viewing and or editing at this point. When more than one time slots are presented as options the end user can select one as a firm time for the NST text segment. In step a recipient can be prompted for an action regarding the NST time segment such as accepting scheduling or texting communicating the firm date . In step a firm time if none has been determined can be decided upon. For example a default time slot may be tentatively selected where if a user selects an action action then that action occurs using the default time slot as a firm time. In step the selected action is taken to record schedule and communicate the firm time event . If the text communication session does not continue the flow chart ends as shown by progressing from step to step . When the session continues the flow chart loops from step to step where another communication during the session is obtained.

The SMS gateway can allows a computing device to send or receive Short Message Service SMS transmissions e.g. communications to or from a telecommunications network e.g. network . SMS gateway per SMS standards allows messaging between any mix of fixed and mobile equipment. SMS gateway can use frequency shift keying to transfer the message between the terminal one device and a direct to short message service center SMSC which can be a component of server . Terminals computing devices in embodiments are based on Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications DECT . Wired handsets and wired text only no voice devices are contemplated. In one embodiment communications are received by the terminal device recognizing that the Caller ID involved is that of the SMSC. When using SMS messaging the computing device silently goes off hook to receive the message communication . In contemplated embodiments the SMS gateway is a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM gateway appliance a direct to SMSC gateway and a direct to SMS gateway. When implemented as a GSM gateway appliance the gateway allows SMS text messages to be sent and or received by email from Web pages or from other software applications by acquiring a unique identifier from the mobile phone s Subscriber Identity Module or SIM card . When implemented as a direct to SMSC gateway the gateway connects directly to a mobile operator s SMSC via the Internet or direct leased line connections and a Short Message Peer to Peer SMPP protocol is used to convey SMS between an application running on device e.g. text exchange client and the SMSC. When implemented as a direct to SMS gateway the gateway connects with mobile network SMSC s in order to send receive messages communications and or other SMS gateways in order to reach mobile subscribers device on multiple mobile networks.

Messaging server can be a hardware software component facilitating the communication and storage of messages over a network between remotely located computing devices . Messaging server can include a communication interface a content analyzer a calendar integration module and a data store . In one embodiments the content analyzer and calendar integration module is given access to the recipient s calendar only and lacks access to the sender s calendar. Similarly the sender is not provided any insight into the recipient s calendar via the messaging server or content analyzer or calendar integrator in particular . This permits a level of maintaining confidentiality of protected scheduling information between parties so that a recipient is not subtly pressured to meet when it is less than desired which would occur if the sender was made aware of the recipient s availability and so the sender is not informed of any rescheduling activities taken by the recipient which may indicate that the recipient values the meeting more than the sender should the recipient wish this fact to remain obscured . Thus in embodiments of the disclosure the scheduling function is explicitly designed to be recipient facing and to preserve confidential scheduling information which the recipient can thereafter choose to make available to the sender or not via text exchange responses communications .

The communication interface can include application programming interface API or other interface standard that facilitates interoperability for purposes of communicating storing the communications . In one embodiment the communication interface can be a web service interface. In embodiments of server text exchange messaging communications occurs within an asynchronous architecture. Server can in embodiments provide synchronicity for file attachments without affecting architecture functionality. It should be appreciated that server can be arbitrarily complex and is not limited to the exact arrangements described herein.

Content analyzer can be a hardware software entity for processing communications . The communications are analyzed by the content analyzer to determine whether or not they contain any NST text segments. When NST text segments are detected the content analyzer can determine duration for an associated meeting event gathering. The content analyzer can also determine as time range including start and end times for a NST event. In one embodiment pseudo code or the equivalent can be implemented as part of the content analyzer . In one embodiment analyzer can determine the semantic context of communications to intelligently notify a user e.g. recipient of NST events and can facilitate the establishment of a firm time for such events. For example the content analyzer after accessing one or more calendars can determine a set of time slots each of which is non conflicting with a recipient s and or sender s calendar for which a NST event can be scheduled. The content analyzer can facilitate this scheduling can record link a firm date automatically generated possibly selected by a user from automatically generated time slots to a NST text segment or communication and or can communicate the firm date to the sender of a communication containing the NST text segment. In one embodiment analyzer can utilize traditional and or proprietary semantic analysis techniques including but not limited to linguistic analysis e.g. keyword detection metadata analysis and the like.

Data store can be a hardware software component able to persist communications settings date information user settings of recipient sender for example rule sets linkages between messages and firm dates and the like. Data store can be a Storage Area Network SAN Network Attached Storage NAS and the like. Data store can conform to a relational database management system RDBMS object oriented database management system OODBMS and the like. Data store can be communicatively linked to server in one or more traditional and or proprietary mechanisms. In one instance data store can be a component of Structured Query Language SQL complaint database.

Computing device can be a hardware software permitting presentation of communications and or date information via interface . In embodiments computing device is a mobile telephone a tablet an embedded computer a notebook computer a desktop computer a wearable computing device and the like. Device includes one or more processors electronic circuitry and one or more non transitory storage devices. Device can include but is not limited to text exchange client input output components user settings microphone camera interface and the like.

Text exchange client can include but is not limited to an SMS messaging application an email Web application an email desktop application a mobile phone email application a VOIP conferencing application and the like. I O components can include but is not limited to a camera a keyboard a mouse an accelerometer a biometric sensor and the like. Interface capabilities can include a graphical user interface GUI voice user interface VUI mixed mode interface and the like. Content of communications is able to be generated by the input components of device and is able to be presented via output components of device . Sender s device and recipient s device are embodiments of device .

Calendar repository can be a hardware software entity able to persist files and data which includes those for calendars . In one instance repository can be a shared file storage repository including but not limited to a cloud based storage a local area network accessible storage and the like. Access to each calendar can require authentication such as a user name password. The entries to the calendars represents time periods marked for specific events for a related person such as the recipient or sender as detailed herein . The calendar repository can be maintained independent of the messages of server and can be remotely located and require separate permission from any messaging system through which communications are conveyed .

Network can each be an electrical and or computer network connecting one or more system components. Network can include but is not limited to twisted pair cabling optical fiber coaxial cable and the like. Network can include any combination of wired and or wireless components. Network topologies can include but is not limited to bus star mesh and the like. Network types can include but is not limited to Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN Virtual Private Network VPN and the like.

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. It should be appreciated that one or more components within system can be optional components permitting that the disclosure functionality be retained. Further the flowchart of and system diagrams of illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

