---

title: Compositions of carboxymethylcellulose and polyethylene oxide ionically cross-linked using polyhydroxyl organic anions
abstract: Ionically cross-linked compositions containing carboxypolysaccharides, polyalkylene oxides, polyhydroxyl organic anions, optionally divalent cations, and aqueous media are provided. Methods for manufacturing ionically cross-linked compositions of carboxypolysaccharides, polyalkylene oxides, polyhydroxyl organic anions, optionally divalent cations, and aqueous media are also provided. Such compositions can be used by placing then in proximity to a tissue in need of lubrication or for prevention of adhesions and adhesion reformation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09636434&OS=09636434&RS=09636434
owner: FZIOMED, Inc.
number: 09636434
owner_city: San Luis Obispo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160721
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 350 907 filed 16 Jun. 2016 entitled Compositions of Carboxymethylcellulose and Polyethylene Oxide Cross Linked Using Polyhydroxyl Organic Anions Samuel J. Falcone Inventor. This application is incorporated herein fully by reference.

This disclosure relates generally to the manufacture and use of compositions comprising polyacids polyalkylene oxides and polyhydroxyl organic anions to form intermacromolecular complexes. Particularly this disclosure relates to cross linked compositions comprising carboxypolysaccharides polyethers and polyhydroxyl organic anions and the use of those compositions.

Carboxymethylcellulose CMC is a water soluble biocompatible and bioresorbable semi synthesized polysaccharide. The safety of commercially available CMC having high purity has been identified and approved by the Food and Drug Administration FDA for incorporation into many products. CMC is able to react with various polymers by way of electrostatic interaction ionic cross linking hydrogen bonding Van der Waals interactions and physical interpenetration. Because of its safety convenience and diversity of physico chemical properties CMC has demonstrated applications in the pharmaceutical food and cosmetic industries.

CMC is one type of carboxypolysaccharide CPS . CPSs have also been used in the manufacture of implantable polymers. CPSs are polymers made of saccharide monomers in which some of the hydroxyl OH groups are replaced with carboxyl groups COOH or COO . Thus CPSs such as CMC have some hydroxyl groups and some carboxyl groups present. Carboxylation can permit ionic interaction within a polymer chain or can permit interaction between polymer chains thereby forming a gel. Such gels have been used for a variety of applications including implantable medical polymers.

Polyethers PE are polymers made of chains of ether residues CH CH . Polyethylene Oxide PEO is a polymer made with PE having hydroxyl groups. PEOs can therefore form hydrogen bonds with carboxyl groups on CPSs thereby forming a hydrogen bonded composition. More generally polyalkylene oxides POs or PAOs can react in similar fashions with CPSs to form hydrogen bonded cross linked compositions.

Adhesions are unwanted tissue growths occurring between layers of adjacent bodily tissue or between tissues and internal organs. Adhesions commonly form during the healing which follows surgical procedures and when present adhesions can prevent the normal motions of those tissues and organs with respect to their neighboring structures.

The medical and scientific communities have studied ways of reducing the formation of post surgical adhesions by the use of high molecular weight carboxyl containing biopolymers. These biopolymers can act as physical barriers to separate tissues from each other during healing so that adhesions between normally adjacent structures do not form.

We have identified a new problem in the field namely the need and desire to provide ionically cross linked biocompatible compositions having improved viscoelastic properties without increasing the body s burden for eliminating the high molecular weight components of such compositions. Thus there are several objects of the instant disclosure.

One object is to provide compositions and methods for manufacture and use of CPS PO compositions cross linked with polyhydroxyl organic anions.

One object is to provide compositions and methods which can be used to reduce the incidence of adhesion formation during and after surgery. This includes the prevention of de novo adhesion formation in primary or secondary surgery.

One object is to prevent reformation of adhesions after a secondary procedure intended to eliminate the de novo adhesions which had formed after a primary procedure.

One object is to provide antiadhesion compositions which remain at the surgical site during the initial stages of critical wound healing.

One object of the disclosure is to provide antiadhesion compositions which can hydrate quickly in a controlled fashion.

One object of the disclosure is to provide compositions with desired properties with incorporated drugs so that the drug can be delivered locally over a period of time to the surgical site.

One object of the disclosure is to provide compositions having improved viscoelastic antiadhesion coatability tissue adherence anti thrombogenicity or bioresorbability.

To achieve these and other objectives in embodiments of the instant disclosure one can carefully control the properties of antiadhesion compositions by closely regulating the pH amounts of carboxyl residues polyether cations and polyhydroxyl anions within the carboxypolysaccharide polyether association complex to closely control the degree of association between the polymers using polyhydroxyl organic anions.

In embodiments polyhydroxyl organic anions such as gluconate can be used to provide intermolecular attraction thereby providing compositions having increased viscosity and provide composition viscosity control compared to those made with CPS and PEO alone.

Creation of complexes in the form of compositions with desired properties is accomplished by varying the degree of hydrogen bonding between the polymers. This variation in properties is accomplished by varying the amount of polyhydroxyl organic anion in the composition the pH of the composition the molecular weights of the polymers the percentage composition of the polymer mixture and or the degree of substitution d.s. by carboxyl residues within the CMC or CPS and the presence and concentration s of polyhydroxyl anions.

To address the problems of the prior art antiadhesion compositions we have discovered new compositions based on association complexation between ionically associated carboxymethylcellulose CMC and hydrophilic polyethylene oxides PEO . Cross linked compositions of this disclosure can be made by dissolving CMC and PEO as dry powders in an aqueous solution containing polyhydroxyl anions and optionally multivalent cations to provide cross linking between the CMC and the PEO with the polyhydroxyl organic anions acting as bridges for hydrogen bonding or van Der Waals interactions.

In embodiments of the disclosure poly hydroxyl organic anions such as gluconate and optionally multivalent cations including Ca can be used to provide intermolecular attraction thereby providing compositions having increased viscosity and provide viscosity control of the composition.

We unexpectedly found that CPS PO gels made using poly hydroxyl organic anions exhibited viscoelastic properties very different from CPS PO gels made with calcium chloride. In particular we found that gels made using calcium chloride exhibited decreased viscosity with increasing concentration of calcium chloride. In striking contrast similar CPS PO gels made with polyhydroxyl organic anions exhibited increased viscosity at the same calcium ion concentration compared to gels made with calcium chloride. We further found quite unexpectedly that with increasing concentration of polyhydroxyl organic anions the viscosity of CPS PO gels increased with increasing calcium concentration. The increased viscosity and increasing viscosity with increasing calcium concentration of CPS PO gels made with calcium polyhydroxyl organic anions was completely unexpected based on the prior art.

The compositions of this disclosure can be used to inhibit post surgical adhesions to decrease the consequences of arthritis or other disorders of joints and or to provide a lubricant for numerous medical and or veterinary uses.

Additionally in accordance with some aspects of the disclosure drugs can be included in the compositions to deliver pharmacological compounds directly to the tissues.

In certain embodiments the compositions can be sterilized using thermal methods gamma irradiation and ion beams which can alter the physical and other properties of the components. Alternatively in other embodiments of this invention the materials can be filter sterilized.

Manufacture of such compositions in the forms of membranes beads particulates coatings and gels and some of their uses has been described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 096 997 6 017 301 6 034 140 6 133 325 6 566 345 6 869 938 and 7 192 984 each patent expressly incorporated herein fully by reference as if individually so incorporated.

Compositions of this invention can be useful for delivering drugs to tissues. The sites of delivery of drugs using the compositions of this invention include without limitation skin wounds mucosa internal organs endothelium mesothelium epithelium. In certain embodiments buccal optical nasal intestinal anal vaginal applications using compositions of this invention can be used.

The following definitions apply in general to the descriptions that follow. In certain cases however a term may be defined differently. In those cases the proper definition will be provided.

The term cross linking or crosslinking means covalent bonding of two polymer chains together using a chemical reagent.

The term carboxypolysaccharide CPS means a polymer composed of repeating units of one or more monosaccharides and wherein at least one of the monosaccharide units has a hydroxyl residue substituted with a carboxyl residue.

The term CMC means sodium carboxymethylcellulose. CMC A is Hercules CMC grade 7H PH. and CMC B is Hercules grade 9M31F PH. PEO A is of average molecular weight of 8000 Daltons and PEO B is of average molecular weight 4.4M Daltons.

The term comprising and comprises means includes enumerated components but is not limited to those components and may include additional components.

The term polyalkylene oxide PO or PAO means non ionic polymers comprising alkylene oxide monomers. Examples of polyalkylene oxides include polyethylene oxide PEO polypropylene oxide PPO and polyethylene glycol PEG or block copolymers comprising PO and or PPO.

The term Polyethylene Oxide PEO means the non ionic polyether polymer composed of ethylene oxide monomers The molecular weight of PEO as used herein is between 5 000 Daltons D and 8 000 kiloDaltons kD .

The term polyethylene glycol PEG means a non ionic polyether polymer being composed of ethylene oxide monomers and having a molecular weight in the range of about 200 Daltons D to about 5000 Daltons.

The term Dalton or D means a unit of molecular mass where one D is equivalent to the mass of a proton.

The term PEG or polyethylene glycol means a polymer made of repeating units of compounds containing O CH CH but having molecular weights in the range of about 200 Daltons to about 5000 kDa.

The term transmural pressure means the hydrostatic pressure inside the sac minus the hydrostatic pressure outside the sac.

The term Laplace s laws refer to two relationships between transmural pressure radius of a containment device e.g. a bag or a sac and the wall stress. For a sphere the wall tension T Pressure P times Radius R or T PR. For a cylinder T PR 2.

The term viscosity refers to a liquid like property of a material having a relatively high resistance to flow in response to an applied force. Viscosity is a measure of the viscous or liquid like nature of the material.

The term viscoelastic means a property of polymeric materials that have both elastic solid like and viscous liquid like properties.

The term elasticity means a rheological property defined as the contribution of the elastic modulus G to the overall stiffness of the material. Elasticity includes Percent Elasticity as a specific example.

The term pseudoplastic means a rheological property of some polymer solutions characterized by a decrease in solution viscosity at increasing shear rates.

The term thixotropy means a rheological property of some polymer solutions characterized by a time dependent decrease in solution viscosity at a constant shear.

The term Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy FTIR Spectroscopy or FTIR means an analytical technique that is used to detect various organic functional groups such as esters ethers etc. FTIR is based on absorbance of infrared electromagnetic radiation by molecules such as functional groups .

The term carboxymethyl anhydroglucose unit or CMAG unit or CMAG is an individual repeat unit of a polysaccharide polymer chain.

The term ionic cross linking or ionic crosslinking is a method of combining constituents through ionic bonds.

The term physiological compatible aqueous solution means a water based solution containing other components rendering the solution able to be introduced into a body without causing deleterious effects. Physiologically compatible aqueous solutions may have similar osmolarity osmolality as a body may have a pH in the range of about 5.0 to about 8.0.

The terms by weight of a CPS or CPS PO composition means a certain weight of the dry component dissolved in a certain weight of solvent. For example a 10 solution by weight includes 10 grams gms of a CPS dissolved in 100 gms of solvent.

The term weight per volume means a certain weight of dry component dissolved in a solution having a total of a certain final volume. For example a 10 weight volume solution is one having 10 grams of solute as part of 100 ml of solution.

Embodiments of the instant disclosure have significant advantages over prior art compositions. For example Balazs et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 141 973 discloses the use of a hyaluronic acid HA fraction for the prevention of adhesions. However because HA is relatively soluble and readily degraded in vivo it has a relatively short half life in vivo of 1 to 3 days which limits its efficacy as an adhesion preventative.

Methyl cellulose and methyl cellulose derivatives are also known to reduce the formation of adhesions and scarring that may develop following surgery. Thomas E. Elkins et al. 416 June 1984 Thomas E. Elkins M. D. et al. 416 June 1984. However these solutions are rapidly reabsorbed by the body and disappear from the surgical site.

Additionally solutions of polyethers can also decrease the incidence of post surgical adhesions. Pennell et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 993 585 describes the use of polyethylene oxide in solutions of up to 15 to decrease formation of post surgical adhesions. Pennell et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 156 839 describes the use of mixtures of carboxymethylcellulose up to about 2.5 by weight and polyethylene oxide in concentrations of up to about 0.5 by weight in physiologically acceptable pH neutral mixtures. Because of the neutral pH these materials do not form association complexes and thus being soluble are cleared from the body within a short period of time.

The above described solutions can have disadvantages in that they can have short biological residence times and therefore may not remain at the site of repair for sufficiently long times to have the desired anti adhesion effects. Therefore antiadhesion membranes using certain polymers have been made.

Although certain carboxypolysaccharide containing membranes have been described prior membranes can have disadvantages for use to prevent adhesions under certain conditions. Butler U.S. Pat. No. 3 064 313 describes the manufacture of films made of 100 carboxymethylcellulose CMC with a degree of substitution of 0.5 and below made insoluble by acidifying the solution to pH of between 3 and 5 and then drying the mixture at 70EC to create a film. These films were not designed to be used as anti adhesion barriers.

Anderson U.S. Pat. No. 3 328 259 describes making films of 100 carboxymethylcellulose and polyethylene oxide alkali metal salts and a plasticizing agent for use as external bandages. These materials are rapidly soluble in plasma and water and thus would have a very short residence time as an intact film. Therefore these compositions are not suitable for alleviating surgical adhesions.

Smith et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 387 061 describes insoluble association complexes of carboxymethylcellulose and polyethylene oxide made by lowering the pH to below 3.5 and preferably below 3.0 and then drying and baking the resulting precipitate see Example XXXVIII . These membranes were not designed for surgical use to alleviate adhesions. Such membranes are too insoluble too stiff and swell to little to be ideal for preventing post surgical adhesions.

Burns et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 017 229 describes water insoluble films made of hyaluronic acid carboxymethyl cellulose and a chemical cross linking agent. Because of the covalent cross linking with a carbodiimide these films need extensive cleaning procedures to get rid of the excess cross linking agent and because they are made without a plasticizer they are too stiff and brittle to be ideally suited for preventing adhesions they do not readily conform to the shapes of tissues and organs of the body.

Thus there is a need for antiadhesion compositions that can be used under a variety of different circumstances. D. Wiseman reviews the state of the art of the field in A. J. Domb Ed. Wiley Sons 1994 . A currently available antiadhesion gel is made of ionically cross linked hyaluronic acid. Huang et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 532 221 .

Ionic cross linking of polysaccharides is well documented in the chemical and patent literature Morris and Norton Ch. 19 in Wyn Jones E. and Gormally J Eds. Elsevier Sci. Publ. Co. NY 1983 . Each type of metal ion can be used to form gels of different polymers under specific conditions of pH ionic strength ion concentration and concentrations of polymeric components. For example alginate a linear 1 4 linked beta D mannuronic acid alpha L glucuronic acid polysaccharide can form association structures between polyglucuronate sequences in which divalent calcium ions can bind leading to ordered structures and gel formation. Similar calcium binding ability is also demonstrated by pectin which has a poly D galacturonate sequence. The order of selectivity of cations for pectins is Ba Sr Ca. CMC also can bind to monovalent and divalent cations and CMC solutions can gel with the addition of certain trivalent cations Hercules Inc. page 23 1984 .

Sayce et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 969 290 discloses an air freshener gel comprising CMC and trivalent cations such as chromium or aluminum.

Smith U.S. Pat. No. 3 757 786 describes synthetic surgical sutures made from water insoluble metal salts of cellulose ethers.

Shimizu et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 024 073 describe hydrogels consisting of water soluble polymers such as dextran and starch chelated with cystine or lysine through polyvalent cations.

Mason et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 121 719 disclose CMC and gum arabic aluminum hydrogels used as phosphate binding agents in the treatment of hyperphosphatemia.

An antiadhesion gel is made of ionically cross linked hyaluronic acid Huang et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 532 221 . Cross linking is created by the inclusion of polyvalent cations such as ferric aluminum or chromium salts. Hyaluronic acid either from natural sources or bio engineered is quite expensive.

Pennell et al U.S. Pat. No. 5 156 839 describes CMC solutions containing small amounts of high molecular weight PEO. In one embodiment Pennell describes covalently cross linking gels using dimethylolurea.

Schwartz et al. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 906 997 6 017 301 6 034 140 and 6 133 325 describe compositions of carboxypolysaccharide polyether complexes and their use in reducing surgical adhesions.

Schwartz et al U.S. Pat. No. 6 869 938 describes compositions of polyacids and polyalkylene oxides ionically cross linked with calcium chloride for reducing adhesions.

Berg et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 192 984 describes compositions of polyacids and polyethers as dermal fillers.

Falcone et al. U.S. Pat. Nos. 9 161 987 9 345 809 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 887 717 describe compositions of covalently crosslinked CMC PEG and medical uses.

Therefore the prior art discloses no compositions which are ideally suited to the variety of uses of the instant disclosure.

The descriptions of specific embodiments is intended to illustrate aspects of this disclosure and is not intended to limit the scope of this disclosure. It can be appreciated that other applications of the compositions described herein can be developed by persons of ordinary skill in the art without undue experimentation. All of those embodiments are considered part of this disclosure.

This disclosure includes a variety of compositions having CPSs and POs linked with polyhydroxyl organic anions and optionally multivalent cations. For example CMCs are polymers composed of sugar residues linked together and one or more of which may have a carboxyl residue attached to the sugar moiety. There are three 3 potential sites for carboxylation on each sugar residue of CMC. Because a carboxyl residue can be chemically reactive those locations on CMC are potential sites for derivatization. By controlling the degree of substitution DS or ds of the CMC or CPS the number of active groups on the derivatized CMC can be controlled.

The CPS PO compositions of this disclosure can be prepared into one or more of several forms including gels membranes beads sponges and coatings.

The types of CPSs that can be included in this disclosure are not limited to CMC. Rather carboxyethyl cellulose CEC hydroxymethyl cellulose HMC cellulose and other cellulose derivatives can be used.

 1 as space filling materials including those suitable for implantation as load bearing compositions placed at locations where compressive loads may occur such as in the spinal cord for augmentation or replacement of the nucleus pulposus 

 2 as delivery vehicles for controlled release of bioactive substances such as drugs growth factors active peptides genes cells clotting factors such as thrombin and antibiotics hormones including epinephrine steroids anti inflammatory agents and the like and vasoconstrictors such as norepinephine and the like 3 as delivery vehicles for the localized release of bioactive substances such as drugs growth factors active peptides genes cells clotting factors such as thrombin and antibiotics hormones including epinephrine steroids anti inflammatory agents and the like and vasoconstrictors such as norepinephine and the like 4 as binders for protein coupling and fatty absorption in both tissue engineering and food industries 5 lubrication of joints and medical instruments 6 tissue coating and tissue protection from fibrosis neurotoxins inflammatory mediators free radicals and other harmful materials 7 anti adhesion compositions and 8 as dermal fillers 

Useful properties include but are not limited to bioadhesion bioresorbability antiadhesion viscosity and physical interpenetration.

CPS PO compositions of this disclosure can be particularly useful to fill voids in tissues resulting from disease or injury. For example removal of a tumor during a surgical procedure can result in a loss of tissue volume. In situations in which organ or tissue function depends on the shape of the organ or tissue CPS PO compositions of this disclosure can be used to fill the void. Similarly in injuries such as excavating injuries in which tissue volume is lost CPS PO compositions of this invention can be used to fill those voids.

In other embodiments space filling materials can be used to provide bulk in internal locations. For example in situations where a void has been created as a result of removal of internal tissue e.g. removal of a sebacious cyst bullet wound removal of a localized tumor in an area not subject to large movements e.g. the torso an implant can be made having a desired shape and having a desired elasticity. Such space filling materials made according to the principles of this invention can be highly biocompatible having long residence times in the body. Such materials can be made in any particularly desired shape. Thus if the void is irregular the surgeon can shape the implant to match the void. After making a surgical incision through the skin the implant is inserted and the wound sutured. Alternatively the surgeon can inject a composition comprising a gel having particles of CPS PO material therein. After introduction into the void the material can conform to the shape of the void thereby providing a uniform appearing structure.

In still further embodiments space filling materials can be contained within a biocompatible sac. For example one can insert a CPS PO ionically cross linked composition into the spine to provide support in situations where the nucleus of a vertebral disk has become damaged. By encasing CPS PO compositions within a sac the implanted material can resist compressive forces and therefore can be used to avoid nerve pinching a common cause of pain in subjects with degenerating disks.

In still further embodiments CPS PO materials of this disclosure can be dried to form membranes. As described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 906 997 incorporated herein fully by reference CPS PO membranes can be made by preparing a CPS PO composition and then drying the composition.

Additionally in situations in which tissue volume is lost through degeneration or other causes CPS PO compositions of this disclosure can be used to decrease adverse effects of such tissue loss. In certain aspects CPS PO compositions of this disclosure can be used in load bearing capacities. For example voids in the bone bone voids of a vertebral body e.g. caused by surgical removal of a tumor or degeneration of a vertebral disk nucleus can result in pain loss of sensation and or loss of motion or function due in some cases to compression of spinal nerves. CPS PO compositions can be made with varying degrees of ionic cross linking and in cases in which there is a high degree of cross linking the compositions can support increased loads. To make such compositions the CPS can be used having a lower molecular weight so that higher concentrations of CPS may be used resulting in more ether and carboxyl groups available for ionic cross linking. Also using POs having lower molecular weights can increase the number of cross links cross link density in the matrix. As the cross link density increases the ability of the matrix to support a load can increase. Thus in certain aspects highly cross linked CPS PO compositions can be used as nucleus replacements or to fill other bone voids.

In certain of these embodiments a CPS PO composition can be placed in a biocompatible sac or bag within the intervertebral space other bone void where the disk and or disk nucleus was present or in other locations where containment of the composition of this invention is desired. A bag can be made of a silicone based polymer such as Silastic or another less deformable material such as Mylar or other suitable material. It can be desirable to use a bag that has sufficient strength to resist breakage under the loads expected to be placed on the bag. Additionally because both a CPS PO composition and the wall tension under Laplace s law can resist a load these embodiments can be used in situations in which relatively large loads are to be borne.

Thus in some embodiments a biologically compatible bag which may have a one way valve to permit introduction of material into the bag but won t permit unwanted loss of material of an appropriate size to fit within the intervertebral space or other location can be inserted in a deflated condition. Such insertion can minimize trauma to the vertebral bodies and the annulus. Once inserted into place a CPS PO ionically cross linked composition can be introduced into the bag using a needle. Once in the bag the composition can act as a load bearing structure thereby replacing the lost or damaged nucleus. In embodiments in which there is frank loss of bone e.g. due to removal of a tumor a CPS PO ionically cross linked composition can be used to fill the void. Replacement CMC PEO load bearing compositions generally can be surgically implanted. Alternatively a biocompatible bag or sac can be inserted in a deflated condition as described above for nucleus replacement and then filled with a CPS PO composition which can act as a load bearing material.

One can also introduce CPS PO mixtures into a sac or bag and then introduce multivalent cations and multivalent organic anions into the sac. Upon mixing the CPS PO cations and anions can react with each other thereby forming the ionically cross linked CPS PO composition.

In some embodiments multiple bags or sacs can be used. In particular in situations in which high loads are to be expected e.g. the knee ankles or other lower extremities or lower back the use of multiple small sacs can be employed to take advantage of the fact of the well known Laplace relationship between transmural pressure radius and wall stress of a closed sac. As used herein the term transmural pressure means the hydrostatic pressure inside the sac minus the hydrostatic pressure outside the sac. Thus for a given transmural pressure a sac having a smaller radius will have lower wall stress placed upon the sac. In contrast a larger sac will have larger wall stress at the same transmural pressure because of the larger radius.

Based on the Laplace relationships one for a sphere T PR and another for a cylinder T PR 2 in certain embodiments of this disclosure one can use a series of small cylindrical sacs each inserted into a bone void and filled with CPS PO composition of this disclosure. It can be desirable to align the longitudinal axes of the small sacs in parallel with the expected load. Thus during polymerization the small sacs can support the load better than a single sac having latter radius.

Additionally in situations in which the annulus is damaged one can introduce one or more sacs in the intervertebral space with one near the hole in the annulus. Thus when filled the sac near the hole in the annulus can effectively seal the hole and minimize further loss of intervertebral material. In other embodiments smaller sacs can be inserted and filled to support the load and a larger plug sac can be introduced into the intervertebral space. If this plug sac is then inflated with a CPS PO composition of this disclosure the sac can effectively plug the hole in the annulus and thus prevent the smaller sacs from being extruded.

In additional aspects CPS PO compositions can be used to support loads within the skeletal system. For example the spine is often a location where degeneration injury or disease can produce loss of structural support. In particular in conditions in which the disk is damaged CPS PO compositions of this invention can be readily used. In situations in which the nucleus pulposus is partially or completely lost compositions of this invention can be used to replace the lost tissue. In some of these embodiments an elastic relatively non compressible composition can be polymerized before insertion into the affected area. In other situations one can administer a composition of this invention prior to its polymerization so that the composition polymerizes in situ. For example in situations in which there is frank loss of bone producing an irregularly shaped defect a mixture of components of this invention can be injected. After polymerization the composition can fit well into the defect thereby providing structural support.

In other situations compositions of this invention can be placed within one or more bags or sacs. These embodiments can have increased load bearing abilities due to the facts that 1 a composition can be supported against compression by the bag or sac and or 2 the composition has its own load bearing abilities.

CPS PO compositions of this disclosure can be used to deliver drugs biologicals nutrients or other biologically active agents bioactive substances to an animal. CPS PO compositions can be made incorporating a bioactive substance therein to provide a controlled release composition. In general CPS PO compositions having more cross links tend to retain bioactive substances more than compositions having fewer cross links. Such is the case for bioactive substances that are released from a CPS PO composition by simple diffusion out of the matrix. In some cases in which the bioactive substance is large e.g. protein the bioactive substance may be released by a combination of simple diffusion out of the CPS PO matrix and by release as the matrix is degraded in the body.

Regardless of which type of release occurs it can be appreciated that the release of bioactive agents can be controlled as desired by varying the composition of the CPS PO composition of this disclosure. It is not intended that the type of bioactive substance be limited. Rather any bioactive substance whose release is desired to be controlled can be effectively delivered using CPS PO compositions of this disclosure.

It can be readily appreciated that any number of drugs biologicals and other chemical agents can be delivered using the CPS PO composites of this disclosure.

It can also be appreciated that various hormones and steroids can be delivered as can other systemically acting drugs which can be delivered transmucosally or transdermally. These include IgG clotting factors and enzymes for treating mucopolysaccharidosis or other conditions.

Cardiovascular drugs include vasodilators such as adrenoreceptor agonists including terbutaline and low dose epinephrine adrenoreceptor antagonists including norepinephrine high dose epinephrine and the like and vasodilators including nitroprusside and nitroglycerin.

In situations in which local release of a bioactive substance is desired a CPS PO composition of this disclosure can be useful. Such situations may apply during tissue healing after surgery where localized trauma to tissues produces localized inflammation. Thus a CPS PO composition of this disclosure may contain a vasoactive substance to control bleeding e.g. a vasoconstrictor such as norepinephrine or to promote hemostasis e.g. a clotting factor . CPS PO compositions of this disclosure can also be useful for localized delivery of toxic agents in chemotherapy. For example after tumor resection surgery it may be desired to administer locally to the site a CPS PO composition having a chemotherapeutic agent incorporated therein. Such localized application may permit application of higher concentrations of anti tumor medications at the site needed while reducing systemic side effects of traditional intravenous injection.

Certain agents can be advantageously used for local delivery providing desired concentration at a desired site but while decreasing undesirable systemic effects. Such agents include but are not limited to therapeutic proteins such as thrombin to aid in attaining and maintaining hemostasis growth factors for bone cartilage skin and other tissue and cell types. Some of these peptide and protein growth factors include bone morphogenic protein BMP epidermal growth factor EGF connective tissue growth factor CTGF platelet derived growth factor PDGF angiotensin and related peptides and RGD containing peptides.

Additionally locally acting drugs include fungicides histamine antihistamine anti inflammatory drugs corticosteroids methotrexate local anesthetics angiogenesis promoting drugs e.g. to treat cardiovascular disease and anti angiogenesis factors e.g. to treat tumors .

DNA based therapeutics including antisense DNA gene therapeutics and RNA based therapeutics are also suitably delivered using the compositions of this invention. These agents can be used to either inhibit or promote transcription of endogenous genes or alternatively can provide exogenous gene products to promote local treatment.

Locally delivered chemotherapeutic agents can also be delivered. These include by way of example only antibiotics to treat microbial conditions antifungal agents antiparasitic agents anti neoplastic agents including alkylating agents anti metabolites and the like.

Other uses include more general uses of proteins fats and other biological substances whether bioactive or not. Thus proteins can be incorporated into space filling CPS PO compositions of this disclosure. Such proteins may include collagen gelatin of other proteins known in the art.

CPS PO compositions of this disclosure can be effective lubricants for medical instruments. In situations in which a medical instrument is inserted into a body there is a likelihood of at least some tissue trauma resulting. Trauma even slight trauma can cause tissue damage and can result in unwanted effects. Such effects include bleeding inflammation adhesion formation or scarring. By coating a medical instrument with a CPS PO composition of this disclosure prior to insertion into the body such trauma can be decreased.

Lubrication can be used for both acute and chronic uses. Thus for an acute procedure such as urethral catherization a CPS PO composition of this disclosure can be used to decrease pain and other discomfort as well as ease insertion. By decreasing urethral trauma use of CPS PO compositions of this disclosure can decrease post catheterization side effects including decreasing pain on urination urethral adhesions and decreased likelihood of infection.

CPS PO compositions of this disclosure can also be effective tissue lubricants. In situations in which tissues traumatize adjacent tissues e.g. in joints compositions of this invention can be used to decrease friction and thereby decrease localized trauma. Thus by injecting a CPS PO composition into an affected joint pain can be reduced. By reducing friction and pain the usual cascade of inflammation can be inhibited. By inhibiting inflammation secondary adverse effects of inflammation can be decreased. Such adverse effects can be mediated by macrophages leukocytes mast cells eosinophils and mononuclear cells among others each of which can produce bioactive substances that can make the situation worse. For example mast cells contain potent proteases e.g. mast cell tryptase and mast cell chymotryptase that can degrade normal tissue proteins. Additionally a series of interleukins can be released from neutrophils macrophages and other inflammatory cells. Interleukins can be potent chemoattractive molecules and can recruit other inflammatory cells locally to the area and can thereby continue adverse side effects of tissue trauma. Finally tissue trauma can activate neuropeptide containing nerves e.g. c fibers known to contain substance P which is a patent stimulus of pain pathways. In addition to causing pain substance P is a potent chemoattractant and stimulator of mast cells.

In certain embodiments CPS PO compositions of this disclosure can be used to lubricate joints such as those in the spine. In particular CPS PO compositions can be used to lubricate facet joints between adjacent lateral spinous processes. Similarly compositions of this invention are useful as lubricants for other joints including the knee shoulder elbows wrists ankles and hips.

Certain aspects of this disclosure include use of CPS PO ionically cross linked compositions to provide lubrication for other joints and soft tissues. In situations in which injury to bone ligaments tendons fascia or other soft tissues has occurred healing may not produce a smooth functioning tissue. For example damage to facet joints in the spine can result in abnormal alignment of vertebrae which can lead to further damage to the disk annulus or nucleus pulposus . Thus a CPS PO composition of this disclosure can be injected between lateral spinous processes of adjacent vertebrae which normally can slide past one another during normal movement . After such injection the lateral spinous processes can be separated from each other and the inherent lubrication afforded by the CPS PO composition can decrease further irritation.

In a similar fashion damage to tendons ligaments and fascias can produce pain swelling and decreased function. This insertion of a CPS PO composition of this invention can improve mobility and can decrease the likelihood for further damage to the tissue.

CPS PO compositions of this disclosure have wide applicability as tissue coating agents. CPS PO compositions can be used as anti adhesion preparations. Adhesions are unwanted attachments of a tissue with an adjacent tissue. Adhesions commonly occur after surgery in which tissues are damaged as a result of the surgery. Thus CPS PO compositions of this disclosure can be effectively used to provide a physical barrier between tissues that would otherwise tend to adhere to each other. CPS PO compositions may be membranes gels or sponges. Many anti adhesion uses are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 096 997 6 017 301 6 034 140 6 133 325 6 566 345 6 869 938 and 7 192 984 each patent expressly incorporated herein fully by reference as if individually so incorporated.

In still further embodiments compositions of this invention can be used as antiadhesion materials. Methods for using CPS PO compositions for antiadhesion purposes are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 906 997 6 017 301 6 034 140 6 133 325 6 193 731 6 869 938 and 7 192 984. Each of the aforementioned patents are expressly incorporated by reference as if separately so incorporated. It can be readily appreciated that gels membranes and other forms of the CPS PO compositions of this invention can be used in similar ways.

Additionally CPS PO compositions of this disclosure can be useful to minimize joint pain. In numerous conditions including arthritis traumatic injury degeneration of cartilage and ligament damage a joint can become painful. A CPS PO composition of this disclosure can be introduced into an affected joint to provide lubrication and to protect adjacent tissues from damage caused by movement. For example in the knee a CPS PO composition can be introduced during an arthroscopic procedure. In situations in which the joint must bear a load e.g. knee hip ankle vertebra a CPS PO composition can be made with particularly high elasticity.

CPS PO compositions can also be used to protect tissues from damage. For example such compositions can protect peripheral nerves tendons ligaments other soft tissues synovial membranes joints and can thereby relieve pain.

For example tendon and ligament injuries heal more slowly than to other tissues in part because the blood flow to tendons and ligaments is reduced compared to tissues such as muscles mesenteries and the like. Furthermore a tendon stress related injury often is accompanied by a stress injury to an adjacent ligament. Therefore healing of both tissues is required for a return to normal function. However such recovery is often slow and re injury is common. Further even when healed tendons and ligaments tend to heal with scar tissue which is not smooth. Thus even after healing a previously injured tendon or ligament may abrade adjacent tissues and cause either re injury or slow recovery processes.

In another example in the spinal cord damaged spinous processes or vertebral bodies may abrade adjacent tissues. Additionally loss of a vertebral nucleus can lead to compression of vertebral bodies and can result in impingement of spinal nerves often leading to pain and or paralysis.

A further example can involve damage to peripheral nerves where soft tissue injury trauma or inflammatory reactions can lead to pain or loss of nerve function. Application of a CPS PO composition of this disclosure can decrease inflammatory responses and therefore can decrease secondary damage caused by inflammatory reactions mediated by for example macrophages leukocytes mast cells or other types of inflammatory cells.

Augmentation of the skin can be an important factor in recovering from injury or for cosmetic purposes. For example with normal aging skin may become loose or creases can form such as nasal labial nasolabial folds. In the face creases or lines may adversely affect a person s self esteem or even a career. Thus there has been a need for compositions and methods that can diminish the appearance of creases or lines.

Further there are situations in which loss of tissue can leave an indentation in the skin. For example surgical removal of a dermal cyst lipoatrophy or removal of a solid tumor can result in loss of tissue volume. In other cases injuries such as gunshot wounds knife wounds or other excavating injures may leave an indentation in the skin. Regardless of the cause it can be desirable to provide a dermal filler that can increase the volume of tissue to provide a smoother or more even appearance.

Several compositions are available for such purposes. Collagen is often used as an injectable material for soft tissue augmentation. Additionally numerous other materials including proteins fats hyaluronic acid HA polyalcohols and other polymers have been used as injectable dermal fillers. However non cross linked hydrophilic polymers such as collagen gelatin and HA have not performed well and must be covalently cross linked to remain in place to be effective. One example is ZYDERM which is uncrosslinked bovine collagen was not effective as a dermal filler unless it was first cross linked with glutaraldehyde to convert it to ZYPLAST . Similarly HA has not been sufficiently effective as a space filling material when injected or implanted in the body unless it is first cross linked.

Compositions of CPS and modified CPS have unique properties that allow such compositions to be injected into the skin to fill spaces and to provide support where support is desired. One example for needed support is dermal augmentation in the face where dermal and subdermal volume is lost due to aging. CPSs including CMC have a unique property of being an elastic gel with unique physical properties such as dynamic plastic and zero shear viscosity tissue adhesiveness cohesiveness and flow characteristics. In addition it can achieve these properties without the requirement of covalent cross linking. CPSs including CMC are particularly unique because chemical modifications of CMC increases the number of physical properties that make it an ideal injectable polymer for human treatment. For example change in the degree of substitution has a dramatic effect on thixotropy and on viscosity of the gel. Its biocompatibility and viscoelastic properties make it uniquely useful for injection into human skin where it becomes a space filling biocompatible polymer.

Other polymers tested for their ability to perform as space filling gels are polysaccharides that have been used for soft tissue filing are inferior to CPSs. For example HA must be cross linked to cause it to function as an elastic gel. Cross linking limits its ability to be infected through narrow gauge needles because the cross linking converts HA into particles. For example RESTYLANE is a product consisting of cross linked HA in a compatible solution.

Proteins used for dermal augmentation such as collagen also must be cross linked to perform well as dermal fillers. For example ZYPLAST is a cross linked bovine collagen dermal filler.

CPSs can be a carrier for additional material for additional material for the skin including hydrogel polymers such as PEO and emulsions. CPSs can be used to deliver drugs to the skin such as antioxidants retinol vitamins and growth factors. Covalent cross linking of polymers converts them into particles that diminish their ability to deliver additional polymers liposomes emulsions or other particulates.

Numerous substances have been tested over the years for augmenting soft tissue in the dermis in the face to improve cosmesis by filling depressions in the skin Klein and Elson Dermatological Surgery 26 1096 1105 2000 . This is an area that continues to be studied as there has been no clearly superior material or product Hotta Plastic Surgical Nursing 24 1 14 19 2004 . These fillers are prepared from several polymers including bovine collagen porcine collagen chicken or bacteria fermented HA gelatin all of which are cross linked covalently to reduce their dissolution time or immunological reactions. Fillers also include autologous human collagen cross linked collagen from the patient human cadaver dermis cross linked human collagen . Additional fillers are those that are insoluble in the dermis including PMMA beads dPTFE expanded polytetrofluoroethylene poly lactic acid recombinant elastin and thermoplastics that form gels when injected into humans Klein and Elson Dermatological Surgery 26 1096 1105 2000 . More recently ceramic particles U.S. Pat. No. 5 922 025 and also PMMA microspheres Lemperle et al Plast. Reconstr. Surg 113 5 1380 1390 2004 have been used for soft tissue augmentation.

Dermal fillers are used to fill scars depressions and wrinkles. Dermal filler substances have various inflammatory responses in the dermis including phagocytosis to foreign body reactions depending on the material Lemperle et al. Aesthetic Plast. Surg. 27 5 354 366 discussion 367 2003 . One goal of dermal fillers it to temporarily augment the dermis to correct the surface contour of the skin without producing an unacceptable inflammatory reaction hypersensitivity reaction or foreign body reaction that causes pain redness or excessive scar formation for a period of time.

One of the first materials to be used for dermal augmentation is ZYPLAST derived form bovine collagen. A newer material used for this application is RESTYLANE derived from bacteria produced HA. Because challenges include both biocompatibility and persistence in the skin new dermal fillers are compared to one of the existing products such as ZYPLAST or RESTYLANE Narins et al. Dermatol. Surg. 29 588 595 2003 .

More recently CMC has been used with polyethylene oxide PEO and multivalent ions to produce ionically linked materials U.S. Pat. No. 7 192 984 incorporated herein fully by reference .

Compositions of this disclosure are particularly well suited as dermal fillers. As noted above one of the difficulties with prior art dermal fillers is mismatching of the elasticities of the tissue and the dermal filler. In situations where the tissue is relatively elastic and the dermal filler is relatively inelastic lumps can appear where the tissue can stretch but the dermal filler does not. Conversely in situations in which the elasticity of the dermal filler is higher than that of the tissue incomplete filling of voids can occur.

Thus by selecting viscoelastic properties of a dermal filler to approximate or match the elasticity of the tissue a better void filling material can be produced and used while minimizing adverse effects of tissue filler mismatching.

Additionally as an individual ages the elasticity of the skin tends to decrease. Thus in subjects with less elastic skin one might desirably use a dermal filler with lower elasticity than one might use in a younger individual with more elastic skin. Similarly certain tissues tend to have different elasticities or different mobilities. For example the skin around facial muscles e.g. nasolabial folds may be subject to different stresses than other tissues e.g. the lips . Thus one can select dermal fillers having different viscoelastic properties for use in the same subject.

Use of such dermal fillers depends upon the specific need. For example when used to fill small wrinkles such as nasolabial folds or crow s feet around the eyes dermal fillers in the form of a uniform gel or small particles can be desired. An advantage of using a uniform gel is that these materials can be injected using very small needles and can produce a very smooth filling particularly well suited for smoothing small lines. For use in somewhat larger lines e.g. nasolabial folds it can be desirable to use compositions comprising a gel having particles of CPS PO. Such particles can be made according to methods known in the art and can be made to have desired dimensions. For use in nasolabial folds the particles should be sufficiently small to pass easily through a small needle e.g. a 25 or 30 gauge needle . The remainder of the composition can be a CPS PO gel having relatively lower viscosity. After injection the particles can further hydrate in the tissue thereby forming a more uniform composition.

In the following section manufacture of CPS PO compositions are presented. However it should be appreciated that CMC need not be the only CPS used. Rather any CPS can be used in manufacture of CPS PO compositions in similar fashions without departing from the scope of this invention.

To manufacture CPS PO e.g. CMC PEO compositions of this disclosure generally the CPS is dissolved in aqueous medium such as water saline phosphate buffered saline physiologically compatible aqueous solvent solution or other suitable medium. For example dissolving a CPS in aqueous media is generally accomplished by adding a pre weighed amount of powdered dry CPS into a vessel containing the medium with stirring such as with a vortex mixer until the CPS is completely dissolved. In some embodiments a CPS can be present in a concentration of from about 1 by weight to about 30 by weight. In other embodiments CMC can be present in a concentration of about 3 weight per volume to about 15 by weight per volume. The molecular weights of CPS can be in the range of from about 50 000 D to about 1 000 000 D alternatively from about 90 kD to about 700 kD.

To produce a CPS PO composition generally pre weighed amounts of CPS and PO are prepared dissolved in an aqueous medium containing a polyvalent cation having a certain concentration and a polyhydroxyl organic anion having a certain concentration with mixing until the components are well mixed. The solution after mixing is generally steam sterilized to directly prepare a sterile composition for use. Thus a CPS PO ionically cross linked composition can be prepared and drawn into a syringe the syringe can then be sterilized e.g. using steam . When the reaction has occurred the resulting material can be instilled into a desired location through a small gauge e.g. 29 or 30 gauge needle. In other embodiments solutions of CPS and PO can be sterilized before mixing.

In some embodiments the solution can be a physiologically compatible solution with biocompatible pH ionic strength and colloid osmotic pressure.

In certain embodiments NaCl can be used in a concentration in the range of about 0.001 by weight or weight volume to about 10 by weight or weight volume and alternatively from about 0.01 to about 5.0 . In certain embodiments isotonic saline can be used e.g. about 0.9 .

A solution of multivalent cation e.g. CaCl HO can be used in concentrations of from about 0.001 weight volume to about 50 weight volume and in alternatives from about 0.01 to about 10 . In other embodiments CPS PO compositions can be made in phosphate buffered saline or other physiologically compatible medium.

Additionally pH can be varied to produce compositions that have some hydrogen bonded components. Useful pH ranges can be in the range of about 6.0 to about 8.0. Adjusting pH can be accomplished by immersing a CMC PEG composition in a buffer solution at the appropriate pH.

In other embodiments CPS PO compositions can be used precipitated and reconstituted in aqueous buffer solution.

Once a CPS PO ionically cross linked composition is prepared its viscoelastic properties can be readily determined using equipment and methods known in the art. Small deformation oscillation measurements were carried out with a Thermo Haake RS300 Rheometer Newington N.H. in the cone and plate geometry. All measurements can be performed with a 35 mm 1 titanium cone sensor at 25 C. The elastic modulus G and loss modulus G were obtained over a frequency range of 0.628 198 rad sec. Tan was calculated as G G .

In some embodiments the CPS can be sodium carboxymethylcellulose CMC obtained from Hercules and polyethylene oxide was obtained from Sigma Aldrich Corporation.

According to manufacturer CMC A has an average Mn of 700 000 Da and CMC B had a average Mn of 200 000 Da. Rheological measurements were performed on gels prepared at 30 mg ml solids concentration in BupH Modified Dulbecco s Phosphate Buffered Saline solution PBS purchased from Pierce Chemical catalog No. 28374 . The solutions can be prepared by stirring or CMC into the PBS at room temperature for at least two hours. The resultant solutions were clear and colorless with no solids evident and thus were used without filtration.

CPS PO compositions can be sterilized using any conventional method such as steam sterilization irradiation or filtration.

To determine the compressive strength of CPS PO compositions a suitably shaped piece of material e.g 1 inch 1 inch 0.25 inches can be prepared and placed on a surface such as a table. Once polymerization has occurred a load e.g. a known weight can be placed on the composition. The weights can be progressively increased until the composition fractures. Alternatively a composition can be placed in a vise with a pressure gauge inserted and the load increased progressively until the composition fractures.

As noted above CPS PO compositions may be conveniently sterilized using heat. In some embodiments the composition may be heated in an autoclave or other steam producing apparatus. In some cases it can be desirable to prepare a CPS PO composition and then place it into a delivery device such as a syringe. CPS PO compositions can be made using a 3 step process in which 1 a CPS PO mixture is obtained 2 multivalent cations and polyhydroxyl organic anions are added to start the cross linking reaction and 3 where the cross linked material is precipitated and reconstituted. Alternatively a CPS PO composition can be made using a one step process in which the CPS PO solution is made with cations and anions and then placed in a delivery device for sterilization. After sterilization in situ the CPS PO composition is ready to use.

It can be appreciated that certain embodiments e.g. one step embodiments can provide easy to produce pre sterilized compositions in a suitable delivery device e.g. syringe . Pre made CPS PO compositions having desirable elasticity can be injected directly into the site using a small gauge e.g. 25 26 27 28 29 or 30 gauge needle.

The following examples are presented to illustrate certain embodiments of this disclosure and are not intended to limit the scope to the embodiments so illustrated. Rather workers of skill in the art can modify or adapt the teachings of this invention to make and use other variations without undue experimentation. All of those embodiments are considered to be part of this disclosure.

To a 400 ml polypentene beaker fitted with a mechanical stirrer we added distilled deionized water DIW 200 mL CaCl see Table 1 for amounts and NaCl see Table 1 for amounts . After the salts were dissolved the solution was mixed at 700 rpm while a solid mixture of CMC A 6.66 g and PEO A 0.74 g were slowly added to the vortexing solution. After 5 minutes the stirrer was set to 145 rpm for 2 hours resulting in a clear viscous gel. The gel was filtered through a 100 mesh filter under pressure and loaded into 20 mL polypropylene syringes. The syringes were loaded into autoclavable sterilization pouches and steam sterilized. After sterilization the gel was set at room temperature overnight before measuring the viscosity osmolality and pH. Table 1 below presents results of this experiment. Visc means viscosity and OSMO means osmolality. Results are shown in Table 1 below.

To a 400 ml polypentene beaker fitted with a mechanical stirrer we added distilled deionized water DIW 200 mL calcium gluconate see Table 2 for amounts and NaCl see Table 2 for amounts . After the salts were dissolved the solution was mixed at 700 rpm while a solid mixture of CMC A 6.66 g and PEO A 0.74 g were slowly added to the vortexing solution. After 5 minutes the stirrer was set to 145 rpm for 2 hours resulting in a clear viscous gel. The gel was filtered through a 100 mesh filter under pressure and loaded into 20 mL polypropylene syringes. The syringes were loaded into autoclavable sterilization pouches and steam sterilized. After sterilization the gel was set at room temperature overnight before measuring the viscosity osmolality and pH. After sterilization the gel was set at room temperature overnight before measuring the viscosity osmolality and pH. Table 2 below presents results of this experiment. Visc means viscosity OSMO means osmolality and CaClu means calcium gluconate.

As shown in Table 1 and the viscosity of compositions of this disclosure are very different from those of the prior art. Results of the experiments in Example 1 show notable properties. First with increasing calcium concentration the viscosity of CaCl containing materials decreases. Such behavior is characteristic of compositions of CPS and PO ionically cross linked with CaCl. This property is shared by the compositions disclosed by Schwartz et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 869 938.

In contrast to the observed decrease in viscosity with increasing calcium ion concentration compositions of the instant disclosure exhibited two properties shown in Example 2. First as shown in at the same calcium ion concentration the viscosity of calcium gluconate containing compositions is higher that for compositions ionically cross linked using CaCl. Second and most surprisingly with increasing calcium ion concentration the viscosity of calcium gluconate containing compositions increases so that the viscosity of the gluconate containing compositions is substantially higher than the viscosity of compositions cross linked using CaCl or calcium ions per se .

These effects represent a result that is completely unexpected based on the prior art. These effects represent an advantageous and excellent effect and render compositions of the instant disclosure highly suitable for the uses to which such compositions can be used. For example using the disclosures herein it is possible to produce a composition having a desired viscosity without using increased amounts of CPS or PO. Because CPS and PO are eliminated according to physiological processes one may be able to use a high viscosity material that does not overburden the physiological processes and in some cases may permit a shorter residence time in the body. Such a feature may be particularly useful in acute situations in which the residence time of the composition need not be long.

To a 400 ml polypentene beaker fitted with a mechanical stirrer we added distilled deionized water DIW 200 mL CaCl2 see Table 3 for amounts and NaCl see Table 3 for amounts . After the salts were dissolved the solution was mixed at 700 rpm while a solid mixture of CMC A 7.21 g and PEO B 0.19 g were added to the vortexing solution. After 5 minutes the stirrer was set to 145 rpm for 2 hours resulting in a clear viscous gel. The gel was filtered through a 100 mesh filter under pressure and loaded into 20 mL polypropylene syringes. The syringes were loaded into autoclavable sterilization pouches and steam sterilized. After sterilization the gel was set at room temperature overnight before measuring the viscosity osmolality and pH. Results are shown in Table 3 below.

To a 400 ml polypentene beaker fitted with a mechanical stirrer we added distilled deionized water DIW 200 mL calcium gluconate see Table 4 for amounts and NaCl see Table 4 for amounts . After the salts were dissolved the solution was mixed at 700 rpm while a solid mixture of CMC A 7.21 g and PEO B 0.19 g were slowly added to the vortexing solution. After 5 minutes the stirrer was set to 145 rpm for 2 hours resulting in a clear viscous gel. The gel was filtered through a 100 mesh filter under pressure and loaded into 20 mL polypropylene syringes. The syringes were loaded into autoclavable sterilization pouches and steam sterilized. After sterilization the gel was set at room temperature overnight before measuring the viscosity osmolality and pH. After sterilization the gel was set at room temperature overnight before measuring the viscosity osmolality and pH. Results are shown in Table 4 below.

It can be readily appreciated that the presence of gluconate substantially increased the viscosity of gels containing this polyhydroxyl anion.

To a 400 ml polypentene beaker fitted with a mechanical stirrer we added distilled deionized water DIW 200 mL sodium gluconate see Table 5 for amounts and NaCl see Table 5 for amounts . After the salts were dissolved the solution was mixed at 700 rpm while a solid mixture of CMC A 6.66 g and PEO A 0.74 g were slowly added to the vortexing solution. After 5 minutes the stirrer was set to 145 rpm for 2 hours resulting in a clear viscous gel. The gel was filtered through a 100 mesh filter under pressure and loaded into 20 mL polypropylene syringes. The syringes were loaded into autoclavable sterilization pouches and steam sterilized. After sterilization the gel was set at room temperature overnight before measuring the viscosity osmolality and pH. After sterilization the gel was set at room temperature overnight before measuring the viscosity osmolality and pH. Results are shown in Table 5 below.

It can be readily appreciated that the effect of gluconate to increase viscosity of CPS PO gels is not dependent on the cation present in the mixture. Thus sodium gluconate Table 5 and calcium gluconate Table 4 show similar increases in viscosity.

To a 400 ml polypentene beaker fitted with a mechanical stirrer we added distilled deionized water DIW 200 mL sodium gluconate see Table 6 for amounts and NaCl see Table 6 for amounts . After the salts were dissolved the solution was mixed at 700 rpm while a solid mixture of CMC A 7.21 g and PEO B 0.19 g were slowly added to the vortexing solution. After 5 minutes the stirrer was set to 145 rpm for 2 hours resulting in a clear viscous gel. The gel was filtered through a 100 mesh filter under pressure and loaded into 20 mL polypropylene syringes. The syringes were loaded into autoclavable sterilization pouches and steam sterilized. After sterilization the gel was set at room temperature overnight before measuring the viscosity osmolality and pH. After sterilization the gel was set at room temperature overnight before measuring the viscosity osmolality and pH. Results are shown in Table 6 below.

