---

title: Identifying website activities as being those of a telephone caller
abstract: Disclosed are systems and methods of identifying website activities of a webpage visitor as being those of a caller placing a telephone call to a published tracking telephone number presented as a substitute for a contact telephone number. The published tracking telephone number is presented as the substitute so that when a webpage visitor observes the published tracking telephone number and acts as the caller, the telephone call is non-disruptively forwarded to the contact telephone number for purpose of identifying the website activities as being those of the caller.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09641674&OS=09641674&RS=09641674
owner: Adpearance, Inc.
number: 09641674
owner_city: Portland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160119
---
This application claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 104 667 filed Jan. 16 2015 which is fully incorporated into this document by reference.

This disclosure generally relates to website analytics for tracking of webpage visitors and more particularly to Internet centric techniques for identifying Internet browsing activities of a specific shopper visiting an ecommerce website so as to associate those activities as being those of a telephone caller placing a telephone call to a tracking telephone number presented on a webpage of the website.

Certain website owners list a telephone number as contact information on one or more webpages of the website. Visitors to the webpage may then observe the telephone number call it and reach an agent of the website owner. For website owners having salespersons seeking to develop credible potential buyers also called sales leads or simply leads current website tracking and promotional telephone numbers that route telephone calls through a third party advertisement tracking service offer little real time information by which to market to and cultivate sales from leads.

In a website including a contact telephone number configured to be presented as formatted content of a webpage of the website disclosed are systems and methods for identifying website activities of a webpage visitor as being those of a caller placing a telephone call to a published tracking telephone number presented as a substitute for the contact telephone number. The published tracking telephone number is presented as the substitute so that when the webpage visitor observes the published tracking telephone number and acts as the caller the telephone call is non disruptively forwarded to the contact telephone number for the purpose of identifying the website activities as being those of the caller. Such identification is made possible according to features and embodiments summarized as follows.

A set of telephone numbers is obtained from a provider of telephony infrastructure e.g. Twilio the telephony infrastructure configured to facilitate connectivity between networked devices e.g. computers communicatively coupled by Internet connectivity to share hypertext transfer protocol HTTP messages and a public switched telephone network PSTN .

Allocated from the set of telephone numbers is a pool of tracking telephone numbers made available as substitutes for the contact telephone number. The pool of tracking telephone numbers is sized to include a quantity of numbers that is based on traffic volume of the webpage.

Provided by a user tracking system UTS or simply tracking system for transmission from a website server of the webpage to a client browser visiting the webpage is a first set of machine readable instructions that when performed by the client browser configure the client browser to communicate with the tracking system and obtain from it further instructions to swap in response to the webpage visitor visiting the webpage the contact telephone number with the published tracking telephone number selected by the tracking system from the pool of tracking telephone numbers. The swap is made such that the published tracking telephone number appears in the webpage as the formatted content.

Information is then stored in a database of the tracking system. For example the information indicates that the published tracking telephone number has been presented to the webpage visitor as the substitute for the contact telephone number. Also the website activity is tracked as well e.g. by also storing that information in the database .

Provided by the tracking system for configuring a call processing application server of the provider of the telephony infrastructure is a second set of machine readable instructions. When performed by the call processing application server these instructions configure the call processing application server to send a network request to the tracking system in response to receiving the telephone call placed to the published tracking telephone number. The network request which may be an HTTP endpoint request or a message under various other network protocols includes information identifying the published tracking telephone number and caller details. The caller details include a caller telephone number originating the telephone call a name associated with the caller telephone number a geographic location associated with the caller telephone number or subcombinations of these details.

In response to receiving the network request the database is searched for the published tracking telephone number so as to retrieve the contact telephone number associated with it and to thereby associate the caller details with the webpage visitor and website activities thereof generally referred to as tracking data . The call processing application server is then provided the contact telephone number retrieved from the database to thereby cause the call processing application server to forward the telephone call to the contact telephone number.

Also disclosed is a UTS to track tracking data including information such as but not limited to pages viewed visit times duration of visits or of page views data input into web forms search entries and other information. Additionally the UTS may determine personal information about the webpage visitor and associate this personal information with other tracking data obtained during visits to the associated website. The tracking data is provided to an agent e.g. a sales agent or a customer service representative of the website owner. For example when a webpage visitor for which tracking data has been recorded places a telephone call to a tracking telephone number the UTS may incorporate the call details and even the recorded call itself into the tracking data and then provide relevant tracking data for contemporaneous review by the recipient of the telephone call. In some embodiments the UTS may provide a database of tracking data for review by the agent.

In some embodiments the UTS associates the tracking data with a user by providing the user with an assigned tracking telephone number through which the user may call the service. This assigned telephone number may be assigned from a pool of assignable tracking telephone numbers that may then be used to forward a call to a direct telephone number for the service. In some embodiments the assigned tracking telephone number may be forwarded to a forwarding telephone number e.g. a predetermined conventional tracking telephone number such as in cases where a separate promotion is used to drive potential customers to use the service. In such embodiments the separate promotion may still forward telephone calls to an original contact telephone number and thus provide for separate tracking of activity through the promotion.

In some embodiments the UTS is configured to assign tracking telephone numbers to users based on information related to the user s tracking data. For example the information might include a time since the user has last visited whether a user has stayed active at the service s website times of how long since the tracking telephone numbers have been used or other information. In various embodiments the user may be provided with the tracking telephone number by modification of the website for the service to include the assigned tracking telephone number instead of a direct telephone number or forwarding telephone number by the UTS.

The present disclosure generally describes embodiments that tie telephone calls back to original website activity of the caller. Accordingly website owners or recipients of the calls may be provided valuable information to assess 1 from what tracking telephone number and particular website a sales lead had originated and 2 whether a telephone caller is a viable potential buyer. Additional technical challenges addressed in this disclosure include 3 tracking numerous different website users at low expense i.e. tracking them with a pool of tracking telephone numbers that has fewer telephone numbers than the number of different website uses and 4 tracking in a manner that does not compromise the integrity of an existing legacy tracking telephone system using predetermined tracking telephone numbers. Additional aspects and advantages will be apparent from the following detailed description of embodiments which proceeds with reference to the accompanying drawings.

When a website owner lists a contact telephone number of the website owner or promoter providing a predetermined tracking telephone number a number of telephone calls placed to the contact telephone number may be counted to gauge market interest in a particular service offering advertised on a webpage. For example in some embodiments the website owner may obtain a predetermined tracking telephone number and list that information on a webpage so that the number appears to webpage visitors as contact information for inquiries concerning the service. More specifically auto dealerships routinely advertise automobiles such as preowned vehicles on webpages of dealership websites. Some advertisements will include a predetermined tracking telephone number e.g. a telephone number provided by Autotrader or another third party marketing service as contact information for inquiries concerning a dealership s advertised sale of a particular vehicle. Accordingly when a webpage visitor then calls the predetermined tracking telephone number Autotrader increments a count of a total number of callers that have placed telephone calls to the predetermined tracking telephone number and forwards the telephone call to another telephone number maintained by the website owner. In the previous example Autotrader forwards the telephone call to the dealership s sales desk telephone number.

Although previous telephone caller tracking systems attempted to track a telephone call placed to a predetermined tracking telephone number such previous systems have thus far lacked an ability to associate a specific webpage visitor with a telephone caller. In other words although the previous systems could count a total number of calls they could not provide the website owner with more detailed information concerning what each telephone caller had been viewing on the website prior to placing a telephone call. For website owners having salespersons seeking to develop credible potential buyers also called sales leads or simply leads the conventional predetermined tracking telephone numbers offer little real time information by which to market to and cultivate sales from leads.

The UTS modifies a webpage of a website including one or more telephone numbers that a webpage visitor may ordinarily call for contacting an agent of the website owner in connection with inquiries regarding services shown on the webpage . In a sales department service is customarily associated with contact information including a 555 555 1111 telephone number that is maintained by the service provider. Thus the 555 555 1111 telephone number normally provides direct access to agents of the service provider.

In other embodiments the 555 555 1111 telephone number may be a telephone number associated with a promotional service advertised on the webpage . For example the 555 555 1111 telephone number may be a predetermined tracking telephone number provided by a third party promoter that maintains a conventional telephone caller tracking system. In such scenario the third party promoter would simply forward a telephone call placed to the 555 555 1111 telephone number to a website owner s own telephone number so as to track the number of callers that view the promotion and call to inquire about it. Thus the tracking telephone numbers may forward telephone calls to a direct telephone number for the service or to a forwarding telephone number for the service depending on whether a promotional service with its own associated tracking telephone number is used.

As noted above tracking in a manner that does not compromise the integrity of any existing legacy tracking telephone system is contemplated in this disclosure. Nowadays sales companies frequently use previously deployed conventional tracking systems that do not track website activities. Such companies may not want to switch to a more advanced tracking system before the companies can assess whether the advanced tracking system offers additional value. For example if auto dealerships use tracking telephone numbers provided by Autotrader the dealerships may want to ensure that telephone callers will be forwarded to legacy tracking numbers. Therefore the present disclosure contemplates forwarding to third party tracking telephone number because those may also be readily overlaid with Adpearance tracking telephone numbers.

The UTS provides machine readable instructions to a website server such that a modified webpage is generated for a webpage visitor. The modified webpage may include one or more tracking telephone numbers that may be used by a user to contact the service. For example in the modified webpage includes the tracking telephone number 555 555 2222 that is swapped in place of the direct telephone number of 555 555 1111 that was originally included in the unmodified webpage .

A user may view the modified webpage on a computer which may include various types and form factors of computers mobile devices or other networked devices. From the perspective of a webpage visitor viewing the computer the tracking telephone number 555 555 2222 simply appears as one of the webpage s own contact telephone numbers because the modified webpage substitutes the tracking telephone number at the same location as that of the original direct telephone number and the content of the tracking telephone number is presented with the same visual style as that of the original direct telephone number. It has the same visual style because the content is formatted with the identical HyperText Markup Language HTML Cascading Style Sheets CSS or other formatted content as that of the original direct telephone number. In some embodiments the tracking telephone number may replace or otherwise obscure the telephone number originally appearing in the unmodified webpage such that a webpage visitor may not be aware that the modified webpage is using a tracking telephone number. In such embodiments a user who is being tracked may not be aware they are being tracked or may be provided with a website browsing experience that is substantially similar or identical to an experience that would be obtained from visiting the unmodified webpage .

The UTS may be configured to collect user visit data relating to visits to the modified webpage by the user. The user visit data may be recorded across a single visit to the modified webpage and or multiple visits. In various embodiments the user visit data may be collected for a single user that visits different versions of the modified webpage such as if content in the modified webpage has been updated or if the user has been given more than one different tracking telephone numbers.

The user may later call the service such as by placing a telephone call to the tracking telephone number presented on the modified webpage . In response the telephone call may be forwarded to a telephone number for the service and connected to a person associated with the service. The UTS in response to receipt of the telephone call provides a visit history showing user visit data to one or more persons associated with the service. The visit history may be provided contemporaneously to the person receiving the telephone call so that the person receiving the telephone call may view the visit history while speaking with the user on the telephone. In other embodiments the visit history may be provided before any call is received or after one or more calls are received. Some examples of the visit history are provided in and associated description.

The UTS may include one or more modules which may be implemented through hardware or software i.e. or both in which or in this disclosure is an inclusive disjunction not to be interpreted as meaning a mutually exclusive or unless related terms are clearly mutually exclusive to perform activities described in later paragraphs. For example the UTS may include a visit tracker which may be configured to record user visit data during one or more visits to the modified webpage . The visit tracker may perform such recording in a background task or other unobtrusive manner as the user visits the modified webpage . For example recording may be performed by way of a WebSocket protocol e.g. a secure WebSocket between the computer and the UTS .

The UTS may also include a telephone number modifier which may be configured to provide instructions e.g. JavaScript that allow the computer to modify the unmodified webpage and thereby present to a user the modified webpage . Such modification may include the substitution or other inclusion of one or more tracking telephone numbers for telephone numbers in the unmodified webpage . In various embodiments the UTS may also include a tracking telephone number assignment see e.g. which may be configured to assign a pool of tracking telephone numbers to a particular contact telephone number. The telephone number modifier may thereafter produce a customized JavaScript file for the computer to use to publish a tracking telephone number selected from the pool.

The UTS may also include storage for data utilized by the modules such as tracking telephone number history and user visit history . According to some embodiments the history and history are stored in a database of the UTS .

Initially a website owner or website server receives a contact telephone number from a telephone number provider . If the telephone number provider is for example a telephone company or a provider of PSTN services then the website owner may deploy the contact telephone number as a direct telephone number e.g. a business telephone number . In another embodiment the telephone number provider is provided by a third party marketing company in which case the contact telephone number is a forwarding number for conventional tracking services. In either case the contact telephone number is configured to be presented by the website server as formatted content of a webpage served on the website.

As described previously a tracking system which may be the UTS identifies website activities of a webpage visitor as being those of a caller placing a telephone call to a published tracking telephone number presented as a substitute for the contact telephone number. The published tracking telephone number is presented as the substitute so that when the webpage visitor observes the published tracking telephone number and acts as the caller the telephone call is non disruptively forwarded to the contact telephone number for purpose of identifying the website activities as being those of the caller. Accordingly the tracking system is configured to obtain 235 a set of telephone numbers from a provider of telephony infrastructure. The provider facilitates connectivity between networked devices and a PSTN. For example Twilio of San Francisco Calif. offers an application programming interface API that allows the tracking system to purchase a set of telephone numbers that are used for tracking purposes. For example Adpearance representatives visit twilio.com create an account associated with a credit card and receive from Twilio API credentials. The API credentials are used in Adpearance configuration software to authenticate Adpearance communications with a Twilio server and thereby allow the Adpearance server to complete a purchase of a set of telephone numbers for use with one or more Adpearance customers also called Adpearance account holders or simply accounts .

The tracking system allocates from the set of telephone numbers a pool of tracking telephone numbers available as substitutes for the contact telephone number. A pool corresponds to a type of contact telephone number. For example if a webpage displays different telephone numbers for sales and service departments then a pool is typically defined for each type of contact telephone number. In other words two separate pools of tracking telephone numbers are created to accurately associate calls to either sales or service.

Tracking numerous different users at low expense is facilitated by intelligently managing a pool of tracking telephone numbers. If a client of the disclosed tracking system has 1 000 visitors per month hypothetically it would be relatively straightforward to have a pool of 1 000 numbers and give each user their own tracking telephone number. Until a first user is finished i.e. until he is off the website that number is checked out exclusively to the first user. When a second user visits he is also checked out a different number and so forth. In practice such an approach would be cost prohibitive because obtaining the 1 000 tracking telephone numbers would be expensive. Furthermore eventually all the available numbers would be checked out leaving no numbers available for more recent visitors because many people nowadays visit a website and do not leave the website for some extended time. For example users may load a webpage in a tab of their Internet browser and maintain the tab in the background for a relatively long visit. Accordingly the pool of tracking telephone numbers is sized to include a quantity of numbers that is based on traffic volume of the webpage. For example Adpearance representatives will typically monitor a website or a particular page of the website over a week long period to assess an average traffic volume. To ensure accurate webpage call tracking attribution an allocated number of tracking telephone numbers is determined by how much Internet traffic the website receives per day. Traffic is based on unique website users visits and page views. This process allows Adpearance to collect information on how many visits a website receives in any given day. Through experiments in collecting website analytics across multiple websites the applicant has surmised that an average website receives 95 of its traffic between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. 16 hours . An average website s peak traffic is about 28 higher than its average traffic. Further the average visit duration is 30 minutes.

Using the above information if visitors visit a website one after another for 30 minutes each over the span of 16 hours this equates to 32 website visits per day. Accordingly for each defined pool if an account were to have one allocated tracking telephone number this one number would be sufficient to accurately track telephone calls back to the correct website visitor. This is so because when the first website visitor visits the website they would be published the tracking telephone number. If they called the tracking telephone number during the period of their visit e.g. 30 minutes then the tracking system could readily associate the telephone call to the last visitor who was published the tracking telephone number which would be that aforementioned visitor. When their visit ends a new visitor would visit for about 30 minutes and the same tracking telephone number could be published to the new visitor. If that new visitor called the tracking telephone number then they would be attributed the telephone call under the foregoing principles.

In another example assume that a website receives 64 visitors per day. Using the same principles as above each pool should have at least two tracking telephone numbers as the first visitor would be published the first tracking telephone number and right after that the second visitor would be published the second tracking telephone number. If either was to call their respective tracking telephone number then the two telephone calls could be correctly attributed to the respective visitor because they were last published their respective tracking telephone number.

The above examples may be expanded according to the following heuristic each pool has x 32 tracking telephone numbers where x is the average website visits the website receives per day. But as noted previously x 32 does not always account for peak traffic conditions. Therefore the actual quantity of tracking telephone numbers per pool is about 28 higher than the nominal case i.e. 1.28 x 32 . For example if a website receives 250 visits per day each pool would have 1.28 250 32 tracking telephone numbers 10 tracking telephone numbers 500 visits per day equates to 20 tracking telephone numbers per pool and so forth.

As an aside it is noted that most websites do not experience a substantial change in traffic volume and traffic volume is somewhat predictable for that reason. Nevertheless skilled persons will appreciate that in some embodiments the size of various pools may be dynamically increased or decreased to accommodate changes in traffic volume. Moreover the set of purchased numbers may also be expanded or decreased by implementing on demand purchasing of telephone numbers from Twilio or other providers.

The tracking system provides a first set of machine readable instructions. According to one embodiment the first set of instructions are JavaScript. The JavaScript is initially downloaded to a client Internet or web browser application in response to the webpage visitor loading the webpage that has the JavaScript. In other words the first set of instructions are conveyed from the website server of the webpage to the client browser visiting the webpage so that the client browser begins to communicate with an Adpearance server. Thus the initial JavaScript when performed by the client browser configures the client browser to communicate with the tracking system so as to obtain from it further instructions for tracking activities and swapping telephone numbers. The further instructions which may also be in the form of JavaScript conveyed back to the client browser thereby configure the client browser to swap the contact telephone number with the published tracking telephone number selected by the tracking system from the pool of tracking telephone numbers such that the published tracking telephone number appears in the webpage as the formatted content. Additional information on the swap is provided in connection with the description of .

Once the client browser is configured to communicate with the tracking system the tracking system stores in a database of the tracking system information indicating that the published tracking telephone number has been presented to the webpage visitor as the substitute for the contact telephone number. Also the tracking system begins tracking the website activities. Additional details are described with reference to .

Eventually a caller may observe the published tracking telephone number and decide to place a call to it so that the call arrives at a call processing application server of the provider . But previously the tracking system has provided to the call processing application server e.g. during a configuration process in connection with obtaining the set of telephone numbers a second set of machine readable instructions that when performed by the call processing application server configure the call processing application server to send a network request to the tracking system in response to receiving the telephone call placed to the published tracking telephone number. The network request which may include a HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP endpoint request includes information identifying the published tracking telephone number and caller details. For example the caller details include a caller telephone number originating the telephone call so called caller ID a name associated with the caller telephone number and a geographic location associated with the caller telephone number.

In response to receiving the network request the tracking system searches its database for the published tracking telephone number to retrieve the contact telephone number associated with it and to associate the caller details with the webpage visitor and website activities thereof. For example the tracking system determines the latest webpage visitor to have been presented with the published tracking telephone number. The latest webpage visitor and their tracked website activities is then identified as the caller .

The tracking system provides to the call processing application server the contact telephone number retrieved from the database. For example the tracking system transmits an EXtensible Markup Language XML file using the Twilio API that includes information causing the call processing application server to forward the telephone call to the contact telephone number listed in XML formatted content. The call is then non disruptively received by the call recipient which may be an agent of the website owner or in the case of a forwarding number a promoter such as Autotrader.

Optionally shows that the call recipient may receive tracking information shown in . For example to assess how the call was generated an account holder of the disclosed technology such as for example an auto dealership is provided with information indicating whether a buyer s call was developed by a third party e.g. Autotrader or Google advertisement placement. Thus the user may determine how many telephone calls they have received in connection with various advertising channels and thereby deploy advertising expenditures on the most efficient advertising platforms. Similar tracking information may be provided to the third party promoter .

Initially the process begins at step with an HTTP request from a client browser that had received the aforementioned initial JavaScript. An Adpearance FourEyes or FE server receives the HTTP request. The FE server may be any type of web compatible server such as a Tomcat server Apache server and the like. Tomcat for example includes a servlet that accepts requests and sends responses based on defined Java objects. Included with the request are a set of headers which contain different values such as a Uniform Resource Locator URL identifying a networked device requesting information from the FE server. In the present example the set of headers would typically include a URL identifying an account holder s domain.

The FE server then determines whether the HTTP request has been originated in connection with an authorized domain. In other words the FE server discerns whether the HTTP request has header information indicating that the client browser has visited a webpage of an account holder. If not then the FE server responds with an empty response and the process terminates. If so then additional header information is processed to attempt to obtain a tracking cookie and a unique session identification ID which if available are included as standard header information.

The processed header information is used in a search for an existing user i.e. a previously identified webpage visitor. If it is determined that the user does not exist the new user is created in an Adpearance database. If the user does exist then the FE server checks whether the current browsing session is valid.

If it is determined that the session is not valid then a new session is created in the Adpearance database. Otherwise the FE server processes the visit to among other things select tracking telephone numbers that should be published. With the numbers selected a customized JavaScript file is transmitted to the client browser so as to configure the browser application to swap telephone numbers and initiate related tracking capabilities.

If it is not available the FE server determines whether other identification exists in local storage. That local storage information if available would also identify the user but this information is used as a fallback for the tracking cookie. Although local storage may store a unique tracking key to be identified by FourEyes it is obtained by way of the local JavaScript on the user s machine and then sent back to the FE server. In other words local storage is not directly or immediately accessible to the FE server e.g. in a header but is instead accessible by further communications made to the client browser. Also local storage is not supported by all client browsers.

If local storage information is not available another fallback is to check for a user fingerprint. A fingerprint is not entirely unique but it is fairly specific to a particular webpage visitor because it is obtained from the user s browser and comprises a representation of screen resolution color depth native language plug ins supported mime types supported features such as local storage and session storage and timezone settings. This fingerprint may be paired with the browser s user agent string and Internet protocol IP address of a requesting party. Thus the FE server determines whether a fingerprint is available. If not then the FE attempts to access local storage or obtain fingerprint value information by sending additional JavaScript Fingerprint.jsp that requests the appropriate information from the client browser. After such a request is made the client browser restarts the process at which point steps or may respectively determine local storage or fingerprint value information is available by which to identify the user. For example as shown in the FE server determines whether a fingerprint has been generated based on the fingerprint value information returned by the client browser. If not then the FE server gets a user based on the IP address and user agent alone.

The FE server determines whether a webpage visitor is a bot. Some bots include a user agent identifier that indicates the webpage visitor is indeed a bot. Other bots can be identified based on IP address or other information indicating that the FE server should ignore the webpage visitor. If a bot is detected an empty response is provided and the process terminates. If the visitor is not a bot then the FE server attempts to select tracking telephone numbers.

The process begins at step when a client browser receives customized JavaScript see e.g. item . The client browser application executing the script begins a process of finding on the webpage any contact telephone numbers listed in the script. The client browser application then initializes tracking communications with the FE server. For example the client browser application opens a WebSocket or representational state transfer REST web services connection via asynchronous JavaScript and XML AJAX . Upon finding a contact telephone number and setting up the proper communications the client browser application registers with the FE server that a number has been or soon will be published.

The client browser application processes completed or partly completed forms modified by a webpage visitor. The application also tracks the user by swapping back the original number under certain circumstances explained in the following paragraph sending information indicating whether the user is active e.g. moving a pointer and sending any form data which often has personal information identifying the user that can be aggregated with other tracking information.

After some period of inactivity a published tracking telephone number is removed as a substitute and made available back in a FIFO queue for the appropriate pool. As described previously when selecting a tracking telephone number from the pool the tracking telephone number that has been in the pool the longest i.e. the oldest number to be presented to a webpage visitor is the number that is selected. As time goes on say 50 minutes passes numbers of the pool are cycled through publication to various webpage visitors. Eventually an undersized FIFO queue may wrap to reach a previously published tracking telephone number. This means that potentially two people having active sessions are published the same tracking telephone number. But if somebody calls that number chances are it will be the person that was published that number most recently. Nevertheless the caller could be the visitor that was initially presented with the number because the caller may be a user that is just sitting on a webpage for 50 minutes. Thus the process includes some features to assess whether somebody has been idle on a webpage with a tracking telephone number. And if they are idle for too long a certain period of time the client browser application unswaps that tracking telephone number until the user becomes active again in which case a new tracking telephone number may be provided.

At step the webpage visitor caller makes a call to the FourEyes tracking number published on the webpage.

At step when the caller calls the tracking number Twilio or another third party call processor is notified of the incoming call.

At step Twilio makes an HTTP endpoint request to a FourEyes URL sending details of the call and tracking number information with the request. Call details include caller information such as a caller s telephone number name city and state. Tracking number information includes tracking telephone number a unique tracking number identifier or other relevant information by which to associate the caller with the tracking telephone number.

At step the FourEyes endpoint receives the call details and uses this information to obtain tracking number settings. Two primary settings are a what webpage visitor to associate with the call and b what telephone number to forward the call. These settings are obtained as follows.

FourEyes searches its call database to determine if the caller s phone number has called the tracking phone number in the past. If yes then FourEyes associates the call to the same website visitor that was associated with the previous call. FourEyes then uses the same forwarding number that the previous call had been forwarded to. If no then FourEyes looks in its tracking telephone number publishing database to determine the website visitor who was last published the tracking telephone number and associates the call to that website visitor. FourEyes then uses the website telephone number associated with the tracking telephone number s publication record the original telephone number that was replaced by the tracking telephone number as the forwarding telephone number.

At step FourEyes stores the call details sent by Twilio a reference to the website visitor and the forwarding telephone number in a telephone call database.

At step FourEyes returns an XML file back to Twilio that specifies the telephone number for which Twilio should forward the call.

At step Twilio receives the XML file and connects the caller to the specified forwarding telephone number.

In another embodiment reports concerning website activity are automatically pushed to a sales person in response to the potential buyer revisiting the website. The UTS automatically recognizes that the sales agent should follow up by placing a telephone call to the previous caller. In other words the website activity is used to automatically supplement a customer relationship management CRM system.

The interface also includes a Static option. Activating this option allows tracking telephone number to be used without associating them with website activity. For example the so called static tracking telephone numbers are provided for classic non web based tracking. In other words an account holder may use numbers of this type to track or record calls but no website activity is associated with the static numbers. An example use of a static number would be an auto dealership or other advertiser placing the static number on print material to assess market interest. The option for Dynamic numbers allows the numbers to be published on webpages.

Skilled persons will understand that many changes may be made to the details of the above described embodiments without departing from the underlying principles of the invention. The scope of the present invention should therefore be determined only by the following claims.

