---

title: Steering column for a motor vehicle
abstract: A steering column for a motor vehicle includes a support unit connectable with the chassis of the motor vehicle, a securement part disposed between the side jaws of the support unit, a setting unit disposed between the side jaws of the support unit; a counter-securement part connected with the setting unit; and a clamping mechanism. The clamping mechanism is operably engaged with the setting unit such that in the opened state of the clamping mechanism the setting unit is displaceable with respect to the support unit at least in a longitudinal direction of the steering column, and in the closed state of the clamping mechanism the setting unit is secured at a set position with respect to the support unit. In the event of a motor vehicle crash, the counter-securement part is shiftable with respect to the setting unit with the consumption of energy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09610969&OS=09610969&RS=09610969
owner: THYSSENKRUPP PRESTA AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT
number: 09610969
owner_city: Eschen
owner_country: LI
publication_date: 20160623
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 12 820 319 filed Jun. 22 2010 which is a continuation application of International application PCT EP2008 009794 filed Nov. 20 2008 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The invention relates to a steering column for a motor vehicle which is adjustable at least in its longitudinal direction comprising a support unit connectable with the chassis of the motor vehicle a setting unit disposed between the side jaws of the support unit and a clamping mechanism. In the opened state of the clamping mechanism the setting unit is displaceable with respect to the support unit at least in the longitudinal direction of the steering column and in the closed state of the clamping mechanism the set position of the setting unit with respect to the support unit is secured in position. The clamping mechanism comprises a clamp bolt which penetrates openings in the side jaws of the support unit and during the opening and closing of the clamping mechanism is rotated about its axis. At least one securement part is provided between the side jaws of the support unit and displaced through the rotation of the clamp bolt during the opening and closing of the clamping mechanism which in the closed state of the clamping mechanism engages into a counter securement part connected with the setting unit or at least during the dislocation beginning in the event of a motor vehicle crash of the setting unit with respect to the support unit comes into engagement with the counter securement part and which in the opened state of the clamping mechanism is spaced apart from the counter securement part.

Adjustable steering columns serve to adjust the position of the steering wheel to the seating position of the driver and are known in various embodiments. Apart from adjustable steering columns which are only adjustable in length or height and inclination direction respectively steering columns are known which are adjustable in length as well as also height and inclination direction respectively. Such adjustable steering column is for example disclosed in EP 0 802 104 A1. In the opened state of the clamping mechanism a setting unit pivotably supporting the steering spindle is with respect to a chassis stationary support unit displaceable in the direction of a length adjustment as well as also in the direction of a height or inclination adjustment of the steering column. To increase the holding forces in the closed state of the clamping mechanism the clamping mechanism comprises intersecting lamella disk packs cooperating in the manner of a lamella coupling.

Several arrangements have already been proposed for adjustable steering columns to provide in the event of a crash of the motor vehicle an additional holding force against a dislocation of the setting unit with respect to the support unit in order to prevent the unchecked displacement of the steering column whereby under control through an energy absorption device of the steering column energy absorption is also made possible. Such an energy absorption device is configured such that for example the support unit is realized in the manner of a carriage which is shiftably supported on a chassis unit rigidly disposed on the motor vehicle chassis wherein between the chassis unit and the support unit an energy absorption device for example a flexural strip is formed.

Such an implementation is disclosed in WO2006042604. An adjustable steering column is introduced here in which for the energy consumption during the dislocation of the holding part which pivotably supports the steering spindle with respect to the support panel secured on the motor vehicle a flexural plate bent in the shape of a U is provided which in the event of a crash effects the energy absorption by bending and through the additional tearing open along notchings provided for this purpose. In order for the energy absorption to take place in fact via these notchings it is however necessary to ensure that the adjustable steering column does not become dislocated within the scope of the possible adjustment range. For this purpose the securement device with which the desired position is arrested after an adjustment must be appropriately laid out. According to WO2006042604 an additional crash blocking device is provided for this purpose. A clamping wedge is provided which in the event of a crash is slid into a gap between the setting unit and the support unit. The clamping wedge is connected with the clamp bolt or with a part jointly moved axially together. During the closing of the clamping mechanism this is axially shifted together with the clamp bolt such that a contact face of the clamping wedge comes into contact on a contact face of the setting unit in order for the clamping wedge in the event of a crash during the onsetting dislocation of the setting unit to be entrained by the latter.

DE 10 2005 052 123 B3 further discloses an energy absorption device for the absorption of energy in the event of a crash in which an arrest element disposed on the setting unit with which in the closed state of the securement device serving for the securement of the set position of the steering column a counter arrest element is in engagement is so connected that in the event of a crash it is shiftable with the absorption of energy in the longitudinal direction of the steering column with respect to the setting unit. A further arrest element of a securement device shiftable with respect to the setting unit with the absorption of energy is disclosed in EP 1 464 560 A2.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 139 057 A discloses an adjustable steering column of the type described in the introduction. On the clamp bolt is disposed a securement part which through the rotation of the clamp bolt is turned during the opening and closing of the clamping mechanism wherein a spring elastic element acts between the clamp bolt and the securement part. In the closed state of the clamping mechanism a toothing of the securement part engages into a toothing of a counter securement part which is formed by a frame welded onto the inside of a side jaw of the setting unit. In the opened state of the clamping mechanism the toothing of the securement part is raised off the toothing of the counter securement part. Through this arrangement an additional holding force is applied against a longitudinal displacement of the steering column in the event of a motor vehicle crash. An arrangement is provided acting analogously in the event of a crash against the displacement of the height or inclination setting. Through the arrangement disclosed in this publication the requisite installation space of the steering column is enlarged and the tooth widths of the cooperating toothings can only be implemented such that they are relatively small whereby the additional holding force of the crash blocking arrangement is limited.

US 2006 009 0586 A1 discloses a similarly acting crash holding arrangement which acts only against a displacement of the steering column in the height or inclination direction.

The present invention addresses the problem of providing a steering column of the type described in the introduction which at an implementation with relatively low installation space in the event of a crash makes possible the reliable engagement of the securement part into the counter securement part. This is attained according to the invention thereby that the counter securement part is disposed on a wall parallel to the axis of the clamp bolt of the setting unit or is formed by it.

Because the counter securement part is disposed on a wall located parallel to the axis of the clamp bolt in particular of the upper or lower side wall of the setting unit or is formed by it at a space saving realization of the steering column. Nevertheless a relatively large engagement width between the securement part and the counter securement part can be realized. During the opening and closing of the clamping mechanism which in the closed state counteracts a displacement of the setting unit with respect to the support unit the clamp bolt is turned about its axis and with it the securement part disposed preferably on or at the clamp bolt. In the opened state the securement part is spaced apart from the counter securement part thus is brought out of engagement. In the closed state of the clamping mechanism the securement part is preferably resiliently brought into contact with the counter securement part.

In a preferred embodiment the securement part engages into the counter securement part after the closing of the clamping mechanism either directly under form closure or the securement part is initially only under frictional closure in contact with the counter securement part. In the latter case through the resilient contact the securement part at a beginning dislocation of the setting unit with respect to the support unit as can occur for example when the holding force of the clamping mechanism is exceeded for example in the event of a motor vehicle crash is however brought into engagement with the counter securement part under form closure. The maximal value of the possible dislocation until reaching the form closure engagement can be defined. For this purpose into the counter securement part can advantageously be worked several engagement elements in the simplest case cutouts into which a form element for example a nose of the securement part can engage. The interspace of the cutouts defines the maximal possible shifting path up to the form closure engagement between securement and counter securement part.

It is herein of advantage that a multiplicity of feasibilities known within prior art can be applied for the formation of the clamping and gripping mechanism or of the clamping mechanism with which the support unit is locked with respect to the setting unit. The locking can take place via a form closure for example via a toothing as well as also via a frictional closure. The activation of the clamping mechanism can also occur via the known combination of wedge disk and cam part or also via rolling bodies which roll along predetermined tracks and which permit the appropriate tightening of the clamping system. Decisive is that a clamp bolt is provided which is oriented transversely to the shifting direction of the setting unit with respect to the support unit and upon a change from the position in which the shifting of the support unit is made possible with respect to the setting unit into the position in which the shifting of the support unit with respect to the setting unit is blocked executes a rotational movement about its own axis. This rotational movement is utilized for displacing the securement part into the ready position or out of the ready position.

An advantageous embodiment of the invention provides that in the event of a crash the counter securement part is shiftable with respect to the setting unit with the consumption of energy. There is thus a connection shiftable with the absorption of energy of the counter securement part with the setting unit. The force counteracting the shifting is herein much larger preferably more than one order of magnitude larger than the conventional force required for the longitudinal displacement of the setting unit with respect to the support unit in the opened state of the clamping mechanism. If in the event of a crash the holding force of the clamping mechanisms is overcome and onto the counter securement part a force acts which exceeds that counteracting the shifting of the counter securement part the counter securement part can be shifted with respect to the setting unit with the consumption of energy. The counter securement part and the setting unit are consequently separate parts in this embodiment.

The connection of the counter securement part with the setting unit shiftable with the consumption of energy is preferably so laid out that the forces counteracting a shifting of the setting unit with respect to the chassis stationary support unit or the vehicle chassis are in the range of 500 N to 10 000 N. Through these forces potentially further provided holding forces in particular acting under frictional closure of the clamping mechanism are also overcome. If the forces are within this order of magnitude the risk of injury to the driver is minimized. Special predetermined or settable force courses over the shifting path are herein desired for optimization which in the ideal case can even be settable during the crash.

In an advantageous embodiment the counter securement part is for example realized as a U shaped bent sheet metal element with two shanks. After installment the position of the sheet metal element is oriented such that the arc form section of the sheet metal element is disposed in the direction toward the driver or toward the steering wheel side end of the steering spindle. A first shank also denoted as plate is realized as a sheet metal strip and comprises several engagement elements. A second shank is connected with the setting unit which directly or indirectly pivotably bearing supports the steering spindle and includes two weakening lines for example notchings parallel to one another and to the other shank between which a tear plate is formed. In case the clamping system is closed and a shifting of the setting unit takes place with respect to the support unit through the form closure between an engagement element and the form closure element the plate is shifted such that the bow section is also shifted and the tear plate is torn out of the second shank. Through the multiplicity of engagement elements the force path course and the entire path available for the energy consumption are always identical independently of the displacement position of the setting unit with respect to the support unit. Instead of a tear plate a pure flexural plate or a combination thereof could also be provided.

This preferred embodiment entails a number of advantages. For example additional installation space is hardly required. In particular the clamp bolt does not need to be extended and the steering column does not need to be built wider. The engagement into the clamping system is also minimal and the mounting is simple. With the aid of this embodiment two functions are combined. In the prior art for example in WO2006042604 A1 between the setting unit and the support unit a carriage is provided. For ease of adjustment of the steering column the setting unit is displaced with respect to the carriage. For the energy absorption under control in the event of a crash the carriage is shifted with respect to the support unit via interspaced energy absorption means. It must herein be ensured that during the energy absorption no unchecked shifting of the setting unit with respect to the carriage takes place. In the embodiment of the invention both functions are combined in one element the U shaped bent sheet metal element. A carriage at least for purely longitudinally adjustable steering columns is furthermore not required.

A steering column according to the invention can be only longitudinally adjustable or additionally also in height or inclination for the longitudinal adjustability. The clamp bolt can for example for this purpose penetrate elongated holes in the side walls of the support unit which extend in the direction of the height or inclination adjustment. It is also conceivable and feasible that an intermediate unit is provided which is adjustable with respect to the support unit in the direction of height or inclination adjustment wherein the setting unit is displaceable with respect to the intermediate unit in the longitudinal direction of the steering column or steering spindle. Such designs are known. In another embodiment the intermediate unit can be omitted and the side jaws of the support unit in the closed state of the clamping mechanism can be directly clamped together with the setting unit as is also already known.

In a feasible embodiment the support unit is rigidly secured on the chassis of the motor vehicle. In another embodiment the support unit is held on a chassis unit which in turn is rigidly securable on the chassis of the motor vehicle wherein it is nonshiftable in normal operation with respect to the chassis unit. In the event of a crash when a threshold value of the acting force is exceeded it is shiftable with respect to the chassis unit in the direction toward the front of the motor vehicle. Advantageously energy consuming means for example at least one flexural strip can herein be provided between the support unit and the chassis unit. Such designs are known.

A first embodiment of a steering column according to the invention is depicted in to with illustrating variants of the clamp bolt to this embodiment.

The steering column comprises a support unit securable on the chassis of a motor vehicle. A steering spindle on whose steering wheel side end a steering wheel is attachable is pivotably bearing supported by a jacket unit or setting unit which is supported by the support unit . In the opened state of a clamping mechanism the steering column is adjustable in its longitudinal direction axial direction of the steering spindle and in the direction of the height or inclination. The setting unit is herein displaceable with respect to the support unit in the longitudinal direction and in the direction of the height or inclination adjustment.

The setting unit is disposed between side jaws of the support unit in openings which are realized in the form of elongated holes extending in the direction of the height or inclination adjustment and through which penetrates a clamp bolt of the clamping mechanism . The clamp bolt penetrates further openings in side jaws of the setting unit which extend in the form of elongated holes in the longitudinal direction .

The clamp bolt is held by the margins of the openings penetrated by it in the side jaws of the support unit nonshiftable in the particular set height or inclination position of the steering column in the longitudinal direction of the steering column.

Between the support unit and the setting unit in the depicted embodiment is disposed an intermediate unit. This includes side jaws which are disposed between the particular side jaw of the support unit and the setting unit . The clamp bolt penetrates round holes in the side jaws . The intermediate unit is swivellable with respect to the support unit about a swivel axis in the direction of the height or inclination adjustment. In the longitudinal direction of the steering column the side jaws are guided with respect to the setting unit through projecting webs which engage into longitudinal grooves on the side faces of the setting unit .

In the closed state of the clamping mechanism the side jaws of the support unit are clamped on both sides against the side jaws of the intermediate unit and this is clamped against the setting unit wherein the cooperating friction faces represent arrest elements of the clamping mechanism acting under frictional closure. Press on parts disposed on the clamp bolts and pressed against the outside of the side jaws form further friction faces cooperating with the side jaws whereby further arrest elements of the clamping device acting under frictional closure are formed. It is conceivable and feasible in principle to provide further friction faces through cooperating lamella as is known.

To open and close the clamping mechanism serves an actuation lever through the swivelling of which in a known manner a cam disk cooperating with a counter disk wedge disk is turned wherein during the closing of the clamping mechanism the two disks are spread apart.

The arrest elements of the clamping mechanism are thus brought into engagement with one another through an axial shifting of the clamp bolt or through an axial shifting with respect to the clamp bolt .

Instead of an actuation lever another actuation for example electric actuation of the clamping mechanism could also be provided. Instead of a wedge or cam disk another mechanism for the axial shifting of the clamp bolt or for the axial shifting of arrest elements with respect to the clamp bolt could also be provided.

The actuation lever is connected torsion tight with the clamp bolt by means of a surface projection formed as a polygonal of the clamping bolt as is illustrated in . The actuation lever for the torsion tight connection with the clamp bolt could instead also mate over the bolt head of the clamp bolt . It could be welded together with the clamp bolt or be connected via a roller burnishing or a knurling on the clamp bolt through a press fit. A corresponding clamp bolt without additionally realized surface projection is illustrated in .

Through the torsion tight connection of the actuation lever with the clamp bolt it is rotated about its axis during the opening and closing of the clamping mechanism.

On the clamp bolt is disposed a securement part . It is located in the region between the side jaws of the support unit . The securement part is advantageously disposed on the clamp bolt swivellably with respect to the clamp bolt about the latter s axis thereby that as depicted the clamp bolt penetrates through an opening in the securement part .

On the clamp bolt is further disposed a spring element . Bilaterally to the securement part this comprises sections encompassing the clamp bolt in the manner of a coil spring and a bow section connecting these wherein the sections are comprised of a continuous spring wire. Sections are nonrotatably connected with the clamp bolt for example grip fittingly through form closure or through material closure for example adhesion or spot welding. The bow section extends through a channel in the securement part .

Without external force being exerted the securement part is thereby held in a certain angular position with respect to the clamp bolt and can be deflected out of it against the reset force of the spring element .

On the setting unit is further held a counter securement part specifically on the upper side wall of the setting unit which wall is parallel to the axis of the clamp bolt . The counter securement part includes a plate with a multiplicity of engagement elements successively spaced apart at a particular distance in the longitudinal direction of the steering column or steering spindle . These engagement elements are provided for the engagement under form closure of the securement part . In the depicted embodiment example these engagement elements are formed by slot form cutouts through the material of the plate into which a projecting nose of the securement part can be inserted. The cutouts could also be realized for example in the form of groove like indentations or simply as punched holes.

In the opened state of the clamping mechanism the securement part is raised off the counter securement part cf. . Through the turning of the clamp bolt during the closing of the clamping mechanism the securement part is pressed onto the counter securement part . Two cases can occur herein. On the one hand the mutual position between securement part and counter securement part due to the instantaneous set position of the steering column in the longitudinal direction can currently be such that the securement part engages into one of the engagement elements such that a form closure engagement between the securement part and the counter securement part is realized immediately. On the other hand the nose can come to rest on a web between two successive engagement elements . In this case the securement part is pressed through the spring force of the spring element against the counter securement part . Should in the last described position of the securement part a vehicle crash occur through which the holding force effected by the arrest elements of the clamping mechanism of the setting unit is exceeded with respect to the support unit a shifting of the setting unit with respect to the support unit would begin until the nose arrives in the region above an engagement element whereupon it is brought into engagement with the engagement through the spring force of the spring element .

Either immediately after the closing of the clamping mechanism or at least after an initially minimal shifting of the setting unit with respect to the support unit which is smaller than the interspace of two successive engagement elements in the event of a crash a form closure engagement of the securement part with the counter securement part occurs.

In the embodiment example according to the counter securement part realized in the form of a plate is connected with the setting unit in such manner that with the consumption of energy is shiftable with respect to the setting unit in the longitudinal direction of the steering column or of the steering spindle . For this purpose one shank of the U shaped counter securement part is connected via a recurvation with a tear plate which in turn is rigidly connected with the side wall of the setting unit . The tear plate could also form a section of the side wall of the setting unit .

The tear plate comprises weakening lines formed for example by punch ins which are indicated in by dashed lines. Thereby a tear plate is delimited. Through a sufficiently strong pull on the plate shaped counter securement part the tear plate can be progressively torn off along the weakening lines with the dissipation of energy wherein a plate is formed which continues the plate like counter securement part . A further fraction of energy dissipation occurs through the bending work performed in the shifting of the site of the recurvation.

Instead of forming weakening lines the plate can at least be partially realized as a flexural plate which is separated from the base plate by slots or elongated holes in a predetermined bending region cf. .

It is moreover conceivable and feasible to combine the two energy absorption mechanisms and to provide adjoining the elongated holes corresponding weakening lines which make possible the controlled tearing open of the tear plate after terminating the pure bending operation of the plate .

As illustrated in such energy absorption elements can also be disposed parallel on a base plate wherein at each energy absorption element pure bending formings or bending formings with adjoining material removal tearing operations or pure tearing operations can be provided and with the discrete energy absorption elements identical or different energy absorption mechanism can be employed. It is herein feasible to provide two energy absorption elements or several energy absorption elements parallel on a single tear plate or base plate or on separate tear or base plates disposed one next to the other.

A second embodiment example of the invention is depicted in . The difference from the previously described embodiment example comprises primarily the type of connection of the securement part with the clamp bolt . The securement part is again disposed swivellably on the clamp bolt . The clamp bolt is provided with a pin radially projecting outwardly which engages into a slot in the securement part and during a swivelling of the securement part with respect to the clamp bolt becomes shifted therein. Further is disposed on the clamp bolt a spring element in the form of a bow spring wherein ends of the spring wire project into radial bores of the clamp bolt . In the closed state of the clamping mechanism the spring element extending over the securement part presses the securement part against the counter securement part cf. . When the clamp bolt is rotated during the opening of the clamping mechanism in the clockwise direction viewed from the end opposite the bolt head the pin is jointly swivelled and abuts an end of slot this is located in minimally beneath pin whereupon the securement part is swivelled and raised from the counter securement part .

Other connections of the counter securement part with the setting unit are also conceivable and feasible through which the counter securement part is shiftable in the event of a motor vehicle crash with the consumption of energy with respect to the setting unit . shows by example an embodiment in which on the side of the counter securement part facing away from the securement part a bolt is disposed which extends into an elongated hole extending in the longitudinal direction in the side wall of the setting unit . In the starting state the bolt is in an enlarged region of the elongated hole . With a shifting of bolt with respect to the elongated hole a widening of the elongated hole occurs whereby energy is consumed.

In a variant of this embodiment which is illustrated in the elongated hole is adjoined by a strip region which is separated when the bolt is run in. In this manner in a first section a first energy absorption level by means of the widening of the elongated hole can be specifically set and in a second section a second energy absorption level by means of the separation of the strip region . It is also possible to vary the width of the elongated hole over the shifting path of the bolt according to the desired course of the energy absorption. The width can thus for example be decreased continuously toward the end of the crash path in order to attain a progressive energy absorption.

The strip region can alternatively also be represented as an elongated hole with very narrow width for example less than half of the diameter or the thickness of bolt .

It is also conceivable and feasible to omit the widening of an elongated hole entirely and to represent the energy absorption exclusively through the separation of a strip region . On the top and or underside of the strip region a longitudinal groove is advantageously disposed. The groove is dimensioned appropriately in terms of depth and or width for the setting of the energy absorption level.

If no energy dissipating shifting of the setting unit with respect to the support unit in the event of a crash is desired but rather an additional holding force is to be attained the counter securement part can be connected rigidly with the side wall of the setting unit or be directly formed by it. An embodiment of a latter realization is depicted in . The engagement elements are here disposed directly in the side wall .

In the embodiment example depicted in the U shaped counter securement part encompasses the securement part . The section including the engagement elements is located in contact on the upper side wall of the setting unit . The tear plate with the tear plate is secured on the setting unit on the side of the clamp bolt facing away from the steering spindle.

Instead of a tear plate again a flexural plate or a combination of a flexural and tear plate for example could be provided.

In the several previously described embodiments each of the counter securement parts is disposed on the upper side wall of the setting unit or is formed by it. Instead the counter securement part could also be disposed on another wall of the setting unit disposed parallel to the axis of the clamp bolt or be formed by it for example by the lower side wall.

The engagement elements of the counter securement part could also be realized in the form of cutouts wherein the securement part has an adapted engagement element in order to make possible the nonshiftable engagement especially the form closure engagement with respect to the longitudinal direction of the steering column or steering spindle between the securement part and counter securement part . Herein would again be provided a multiplicity of engagement positions for the securement part in the longitudinal extension extending in the longitudinal direction of the counter securement part . The engagement elements for example of the counter securement part could also be formed by teeth of a toothing and the securement part could be realized with a corresponding counter toothing.

The intermediate unit provided in the depicted embodiments between the support unit and the setting unit could also be omitted. The side jaws of support unit could in this case be pressed on both sides directly against the setting unit when the clamping mechanism is in its closed state. The swivel axis between the setting unit and the support unit could in this case also be formed for example by a universal joint via which the steering spindle is connected with a further section of the steering spindle. This swivel axis could furthermore also be formed by a swivel bolt disposed on the support unit which penetrates an elongated hole extending in the longitudinal direction of the setting unit .

The invention can also be employed in steering columns which are only adjustable in the longitudinal direction . The clamp bolt could in this case penetrate through openings realized in the form of round holes in the side jaws of the support unit .

The sections of the side jaws projecting beyond the upper side wall of the setting unit could also be omitted such that the clamp bolt does not penetrate openings in the setting unit .

It would also be conceivable and feasible to connect the securement part nonswivellably with the clamp bolt and which itself is for example spring elastically realized. Moreover an embodiment could for example be provided in which a securement part is nonswivellably connected with the clamp bolt and during the opening and closing of the clamping mechanism a driving element for example the actuation lever acts directly onto a clamp part for example the wedge or cam disk and turns it. The clamp bolt could be entrained by the clamp part through its rotation and specifically with the interconnection of a spring element such that the securement part in the closed state of the clamping mechanism is pressed by this spring element onto the counter securement part .

It would further also be conceivable and feasible to provide the engagement elements on an elongated part of the securement part and to provide on the counter securement party a nose which engages into the engagement elements.

In all of the described embodiments in which an energy dissipating shiftability of the counter securement part with respect to the setting unit is provided the shiftability of the counter securement part with respect to the setting unit has a defined predetermined or settable force path course. With a force acting in the axial direction of the steering column which is of such magnitude that a shifting of the counter securement part with respect to the setting unit occurs the setting unit becomes herein advantageously shifted in the axial direction of the steering column.

The magnitude of the force acting onto the setting unit in the longitudinal direction of the steering column in the direction toward the motor vehicle front starting at which a shifting of the counter securement part with respect to the setting unit occurs is preferably less than 10 000 N. It can for example also be less than 5000 N.

