---

title: Secure authorizations using independent communications and different one-time-use encryption keys for each party to a transaction
abstract: A registered provider device encrypts provider input related to a transaction between the provider device and one of many registered user devices to create an encrypted one-time-use provider code (the encryption is performed using an encryption key produced, in part, using a uniquely sequenced number generated by a sequencer maintained by the provider device). Similarly, a provider institution app encrypts user input to create an encrypted one-time-use user code using an encryption key produced, in part, using a uniquely sequenced number generated by a user sequencer maintained by the user device. The provider and provider institution app independently transmit their different encrypted one-time-use codes to an intermediate entity, which decrypts the encrypted codes using one-time-use encryption keys produced using sequencers maintained by the intermediate entity. This decryption generates an authorization request. The intermediate entity obtains an authorization decision regarding the authorization request from the authorization entity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09558493&OS=09558493&RS=09558493
owner: BENEDORTSE LLC
number: 09558493
owner_city: Dover
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160217
---
The present invention claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 120 as a Continuation In Part of presently pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 539 190 filed on Nov. 12 2014 the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Systems and methods herein generally relate to cryptography and security and more particularly to secure authorizations using independent communications and different one time use encryption keys for each party to a transaction.

Transactions in cyberspace are commonplace but they are not always secure. There is an old oil industry adage To be successful you need to control either the pipelines or the product. In cyberspace the products are flowing but the pipelines are leaking. To date the risk is getting information securely from point A to point B and requiring it to be stored securely at all points however this does not address the real transactional or security issues.

The desire to secure and finalize transactions in cyberspace both payment and non payment transactions is an issue that impacts everyone. Government agencies and security experts are encouraging users to use more sophisticated i.e. more complicated passwords to not use the same password for different sites and to change all passwords on a regular basis. This stops short however of fixing the problem because passwords identify a user not the person. And most of what is being proposed is mitigation extra steps and related costs intended to make payment and non payment transactions in cyberspace more secure however breaches in security still occur adding tremendous costs for all parties involved without actually securing or finalizing the transactions.

Transactions in cyberspace cyber transactions can be divided into two basic types those involving payments through a bank or payment network cyber payment transactions and those that do not necessarily involve payments through a bank or payment network payment non payment cyber transactions . Cybersecurity or the lack of it is a problem and the threats posed by this problem are both real and pervasive so much so that the lack of cybersecurity has become a form of accepted toll that all organizations and individuals must pay for accessing the information highway.

The inability to actually identify the parties to transactions in cyberspace and provide those parties with tools to actually bind each other to such transactions is at the root of the problem. Merchants experience this every time they are faced with a bank chargeback for a CNP card not present transaction where the cardholder has denied the charge. Whether this is the result of fraud friendly fraud or the result of a hacked system is not the greatest issue. The issue is that someone has to pay and more times than not that someone is the merchant because the terms of the merchant s agreement for the acceptance of payment cards for transactions includes the cardholder being present and signing on the receipt. Without this signature the merchant is liable for the transaction. The same holds true for non purchase transactions. An intrusion by a non verified non authorized person can be costly and someone has to pay the costs.

The problems that cyber transactions present go well beyond signatures and identity verifications however. In general for a transaction to be valid certain conditions are established. As a general rule these include the parities to a transaction being actually identified their presence during the transaction being actually established their agreement to and understanding of the transaction a classic reason for a valid signature being actually established and the parties agreement to be bound by the terms of the agreement transaction e.g. by a valid signature . As the history of cyberspace has demonstrated failure to accomplish any of these steps has potential consequences generating higher risks and adding costs.

With an exemplary method herein for providing security through cryptography an intermediate entity e.g. a financial institution a financial clearing house a resource controller a verification entity etc. is in communication with registered users and associated registered user devices and registered providers and registered provider devices . A provider can be for example a merchant a resource storage entity an access control agent a communications entity etc. and a user can be for example a customer a consumer an organization an individual etc.

The intermediate entity uses apps electronically transmitted to the providers to cause or control one of the registered provider devices to encrypt provider input related to a transaction between the provider device and one of the registered user devices. This creates an encrypted one time use provider code and such encryption is performed using a one time use provider encryption key produced in part using a uniquely sequenced number generated by a provider sequencer maintained by the provider app running on the provider device.

Instead of the user supplying any information to the provider related to the transaction a user app electronically transmitted by the intermediate entity to the user devices causes controls one of the user devices to encrypt user input related to the transaction to create an encrypted one time use user code using a one time use user encryption key produced in part using a uniquely sequenced number generated by a user sequencer within the user app running on the user device. The encrypted one time use provider code and the encrypted one time use user code are devoid of personal or financial information of the user but can include transaction amounts due e.g. transaction tax handling a payment type identifier etc. in a purchase transaction . In identity verification transactions non purchase transactions the encrypted data can be used only to securely and positively identify the provider and user and potentially their consent to an issue.

The user and the provider devices each only maintain their own unique individual sequencer app that is unique to each specific device and the user and the provider devices do not have access to sequencers apps of other user devices or other provider devices. The intermediate entity maintains a duplicate app and sequencer of each app sequencer that is maintained by each user or provider device and such duplicate sequencers are always synchronized with the unique individual sequencers of the user and provider devices.

The intermediate entity through the apps running on the provider and user devices causes controls the provider device and the user device to independently transmit the encrypted one time use provider code and the encrypted one time use user code to the intermediate entity. In this exemplary method and upon receipt the intermediate entity decrypts the encrypted one time use provider code and the encrypted one time use user code. This decryption is performed using one time use encryption keys independently produced using corresponding duplicate apps sequencers maintained by the intermediate entity and this decryption generates a single authorization request for each provider and user that are matched by a given transaction identifier.

With this method the intermediate entity obtains from an authorization entity an authorization decision in response to the single authorization request and supplies the authorization decision to either party to complete or decline the transaction or authorization request.

The provider sequencer within the provider app and the user sequencer within the user app generate different encryption keys for a given specific transaction. Also the provider sequencer and the user sequencer are synchronized with the corresponding duplicate sequencers within the duplicate apps maintained by the intermediate entity. Thus the provider sequencer the user sequencer and the duplicate sequencers not only generate a different encryption key for the user and provider for each transaction they are used to generate different one time use encryption keys for each different transaction to prevent any one time use encryption key from being used for different transactions.

The intermediate entity securely maintains the personal financial information of the user to relieve the user of that burden and in some situations the user app can even prevent the user device from maintaining any personal financial information of the user.

With systems herein the intermediate entity is operatively meaning directly or indirectly connected to the registered provider devices and the registered user devices. Further with such systems the provider app causes the provider device to supply a unique transaction number to the user device a different unique transaction number for each different transaction . Also the provider app causes the provider device to encrypt the provider input related to the transaction to create the encrypted one time use provider code using the one time use provider encryption key produced in part using a uniquely sequenced number generated by a provider sequencer within the provider app. The provider app also causes the provider device to transmit the one time use provider code and the unique transaction number and provider account identifier only to the intermediate entity.

The user app similarly causes the user device to encrypt user input related to the transaction to create the encrypted one time use user code using the one time use user encryption key produced in part using a uniquely sequenced number generated by a user sequencer within the user app. The user app similarly causes the user device to transmit the one time use user code and the unique transaction number and user account identifier only to the intermediate entity.

Again the provider sequencer and the user sequencer within their respective apps generate different encryption keys for a given transaction and the provider sequencer and the user sequencer are synchronized with corresponding ones of the duplicate sequencers maintained within duplicate apps by the intermediate entity. Thus the provider sequencer the user sequencer and the duplicate sequencers are used to generate different one time use encryption keys for each different transaction to prevent any one time use encryption key from being used for different transactions.

With these systems the app provided by the intermediate entity independently generates the one time use provider encryption key and the one time use user encryption key using corresponding ones of the duplicate sequencers maintained by the intermediate entity to allow the intermediate entity to decrypt the encrypted one time use provider code using the one time use provider encryption key and decrypt the encrypted one time use user code using the user unique encryption key to generate unencrypted provider input and unencrypted user input. The intermediate entity combines the unencrypted provider input and unencrypted user input into a single authorization request. In the case of a purchase transaction the intermediate entity securely sends the single authorization request to an authorization entity issuing bank. The authorization entity issuing bank returns an authorization decision to complete or decline the transaction and this authorization decision is forwarded to the user and or provider.

Other methods herein establish accounts of registered users through registered user devices and establish accounts of registered providers through registered provider devices using an intermediate entity e.g. a financial institution a financial clearing house a resource controller a verification entity etc. . Again a provider can be for example a merchant a resource storage entity a government agency a health care provider a law firm an insurance company an access control agent a communications entity etc. and a user can be for example a customer a consumer an organization an individual etc.

The intermediate entity provides an app to each registered user and provider upon registration and such apps allow the intermediate entity to control certain operations of the user devices and provider devices and cause the user and provider devices to take certain actions. Each application so provided maintains a unique sequencer that generates codes that are used as parts of encryption keys or encryption codes . Also the intermediate entity maintains duplicate apps containing duplicate sequencers for each app sequencer that it provides to a user or provider and the duplicate apps sequencers produce the exact same codes as the corresponding provider user app sequencer for a given transaction allowing the intermediate entity to decrypt data encrypted using the user and provider apps.

The user provider sequencers are used to generate parts of one time use encryption keys for the registered user devices and the registered provider devices that are different from each other and unique to each transaction. The intermediate entity can supply a unique transaction number to a provider device of the registered provider devices when requested for a transaction between a user device of the registered user devices and the provider device or the provider app can generate such a unique transaction number on its own . The intermediate entity provides a different unique transaction number for each different transaction so that transaction numbers cannot be reused for multiple transactions.

The intermediate entity causes controls through the provider app the provider device to supply the unique transaction number to the user device wirelessly optically internally from app to app by having the provider verbally convey the transaction number to the user etc . In one example the intermediate entity can cause the provider device to display a computer readable code on a visible display of the provider device a display that is readable by an optical device of the user device can cause through the app the provider device to display a human readable code on the display of the provider device positioned to be readable by the user etc. For example the user can enter the human readable code into the user device after reading the human readable code on the display of the provider device. The intermediate entity can also cause through the provider app the provider device to wirelessly transmit a code to the user device using a wireless device of the provider device that is capable of wirelessly communicating with a wireless device of the user device. In other situations the intermediate entity can cause through the provider app the provider device to internally communicate the unique transaction number from a first application operating on the user device to a second application operating on the user device.

The provider app provided by the intermediate entity also causes controls the registered provider device to encrypt provider input related to the transaction between the provider device and the registered user device. This creates an encrypted one time use provider code and such encryption is performed using a one time use provider encryption key produced using a uniquely sequenced number generated by the provider app sequencer running on the provider device. Instead of the user supplying any information to the provider related to the transaction the user app provided by the intermediate entity causes controls the user device to encrypt user input related to the transaction to create an encrypted one time use user code using a one time use user encryption key produced using a uniquely sequenced number generated by the user sequencer app running on the user device. The encrypted one time use provider code and the encrypted one time use user code are devoid of personal financial information of the user. Such one time use codes can be used to securely and positively identify the provider and user and or approve purchase transactions etc.

The user and the provider devices each only maintain a unique individual sequencer within their respective apps that is unique to each specific device and the user and the provider devices do not have access to apps sequencers of other user devices or other provider devices. The intermediate entity maintains a duplicate app sequencer of each app sequencer that is maintained by each user or provider device and such duplicate sequencers are always synchronized with the unique individual sequencers within the apps running on the user and provider devices.

The provider app provided by the intermediate entity causes controls the provider device to transmit the one time use provider code the provider account identifier number and the unique transaction number only to the intermediate entity. Similarly the user app provided by the intermediate entity causes controls the user device to transmit independently of the provider device the one time use user code the user account identifier number and the unique transaction number only to the intermediate entity.

Again the provider sequencer and the user sequencer are used to generate different encryption keys for the transaction. Also the provider sequencer and the user sequencer are synchronized with the corresponding duplicate sequencers maintained by the intermediate entity. Thus the provider sequencer the user sequencer and the duplicate sequencers are used to not only generate a different encryption key for the user and provider for each transaction they are used to generate different one time use encryption keys for each different transaction to prevent any one time use encryption key from being used for different transactions.

The intermediate entity independently generates the one time use provider encryption key and the one time use user encryption key using corresponding ones of the duplicate apps sequencers maintained by the intermediate entity. This allows the intermediate entity to decrypt the encrypted one time use provider code using the one time use provider encryption key and decrypt the encrypted one time use user code using the one time use user encryption key. As a result of the decryption the intermediate entity generates unencrypted provider input and unencrypted user input. Then the intermediate entity combines the unencrypted provider input and unencrypted user input into a single authorization request.

The intermediate entity securely maintains the personal financial information of the user to relieve the user of that burden and in some situations the intermediate entity can even prevent the user device from maintaining any personal financial information of the user. However in some situations such as in payment authorization requests or bank transactions the intermediate entity can retrieve financial information obtained during user provider registrations and add such financial information of the user and or provider potentially in unencrypted form but always in the form required for a payment network s request for authorization to the single authorization request before supplying the request to the issuing bank or other authorization entity.

Once the intermediate entity creates the single authorization request that contains the potentially unencrypted user and or provider information the intermediate entity operates within a secure system e.g. operates behind a firewall or within some other form of secure network and securely sends the single authorization request to an authorization entity such as the user s bank an entity that verifies access rights etc. . In response the authorization entity returns an authorization decision. After the intermediate entity obtains the authorization decision regarding the single authorization request from an authorization entity the intermediate entity supplies the authorization decision to the appropriate party to complete or decline a purchase transaction to grant access to an asset to verify identity etc.

There are a number of fundamental and technical problems with security in existing transactional systems in cyberspace or other similar wide area networks. For example identifying the parties to a transaction or even confirming the actual website is at best difficult. To protect itself a site operator provider tries to get as much information as possible about the potential user information that can be referenced if the person returns to the site.

In a purchase transaction an individual may have more than one payment card they use. Each time the user uses any payment card the provider is required to securely maintain a record of the transaction as are each of the six or more entities that may have a hand in processing each transaction. This is a real problem because too many people are being required to store too much information and that makes everyone and every transaction vulnerable. What would be useful in cyberspace is a system in which each party to a transaction payment or non payment can actually be verified with each verified party agreeing to be responsible for their role in each transaction. Then the verifiable record of each such transaction and only the transaction record would be stored. Ideally the transaction should operate over existing transaction networks without additional cost to users or to providers and the transaction verifier should be a regulated entity capable of instilling trust and confidence and should be the only party storing records of each transaction as a security matter. Such a transaction secure environment TSE is disclosed herein.

The methods and systems herein utilize many different features. One of these features is a one time use code OTUC generated by a program application app that is designed to verify the identity of each party to a transaction and to act as each party s electronic signature allowing them to instruct the acquiring bank to finalize each transaction and hold the instructing party a registered customer of the acquiring bank responsible for their role in such a TSE transaction. As used herein an app or application is a self contained software engine or instructions to a processor designed to fulfill a particular purpose such as to generate a unique sequencer i.e. value and to use that sequencer to encrypt transactional or authorization data together with provider or user information that allows an intermediate entity to finalize a transaction into a one time use code using the sequencer as the unique encryption key .

The app transforms the identifiers for all elements of each transaction into a unique code the OTUC for each transaction. Another feature is a synchronized symmetric key encryption element for automatically transforming or encrypting each transaction for decryption and verification by for example a program bank or other verification entity. This intermediate entity can be a single bank or a consortium of banks with an open charter singularly or collectively and sometimes referred to herein as bank for simplicity of illustration or a separate intermediate entity that operates as or similar to an acquiring bank during program secure cyber transactions such as credit card transactions recognizing the customer relationship of issuing banks.

An additional element is the utilization of a platform or cloud environment. For example the network infrastructure established for payment transactions provides a basis for a rational solution to the securitization problems common to cyber transactions. This existing structure is useful because banks are already experienced with payment networks and are also experienced with the ability to secure and verifying cyber transactions.

The methods and systems herein work with transaction flows for processing both payment and nonpayment transactions. The securitization begins with each party registering and remaining in good standing with the bank. For example a hospital using the methods and systems herein to ensure records are accessed only by authorized parties with pre established and currently valid permissions could enroll for payments element of the OTUC if they wanted to ensure secure payment transactions with vendors.

More specifically with methods and systems herein program registration involves any user e.g. a customer an employee or any other individual or other entity seeking access to a product or service or any other entity seeking qualified approved access etc. or provider e.g. any provider of products or services for which authorized access and a secure transactional environment may prove beneficial e.g. a merchant government agency site operator etc. seeking to join the program simply registers for a program account with the bank. This registration includes verifying all of the information the bank is required to confirm under the mandatory Know Your Customer KYC requirements as originally specified under the Patriot Act of 2001. This involves taking advantage of the KYC requirement to verify the identity of individuals wishing to conduct financial transactions and conforming the related processes to the bank s customer identification program CIP .

The registration also allows for the registration of all existing user payment programs including all existing payment card programs a user may wish to use or accept under the program. In each case it is not necessary for a user or provider to obtain or apply for a new payment card account or program. Existing card and payment programs of the user s choice may be registered. The CIP process however ensures that the bank has verified who their customer is on day one of the program including existing customers something the OTUC ensures thereafter. While the program supports both purchase and non purchase transactions registration is made of all existing payment programs that a user may wish to use under the program. These existing payment programs are the basis of the user s electronic wallet eWallet account with the bank.

The apps which operate on the user and provider devices are responsible for generating a multi factor authenticator for each transaction and also provide the unique OTUC for the bank to finalize the program steps of each transaction. This involves the bank pairing user identifiers e.g. elements of name address social security or business ID number etc. with identifiers from the user s transactional device e.g. mobile phone personal business computer iPad etc. then adding a sequencer which is responsible for uniquely changing the value and nature of each transaction code with each use. The combination of these identifiers paired with the sequencer creates a unique OTUC at the beginning of each transaction and also serves by form and by agreement of the parties as each party s electronic signature see ESIGN Act of 2000 for each transaction. Functionally the user downloads the app from the bank and loads it onto his her device. Because the device s identifiers are an integral part of the one time use code a separate app is downloaded for each device providing the transformation tool to implement the claimed steps. A similarly structured OTUC is generated for each program provider allowing the bank or other intermediate under agreement with and instruction from each party to bind each party to each transaction recording each party s eSignature to the record of each transaction which is maintained by the bank.

Methods and systems herein provide abilities to identify uniquely each party to each transaction in an automated timely secure and simple manner. Because each user s and provider s individual device sequencer changes with each use the sequencer also provides a secure coding element or encryption key for packaging the transaction and identifier elements. Also because the OTUC only uses elements of a user s or a provider s identifiers those identifiers values must match exactly to the files from which they were selected by the intermediate entity or bank. This is a security element for use in cyber transactions with the actual verification of each transaction occurring behind the intermediate entity s firewall using information that can only be accessed in the presence of a legitimate one time use code and then only once.

However as hackers continue to grow in terms of their creativity and sophistication methods and systems herein include a second level of automated securitization. As the one time use code is generated most of the elements of the transaction are automatically encrypted using symmetric key encryption. Left unencrypted are the transaction identifier and the user s account identifier.

Once a user has enrolled and been approved they download the program application user app from the bank. Providers after enrollment download the bank s application programming interface API that provides the secure linkage to the bank s platform for program transactions. The API includes a provider app that generates the provider s one time use code which combined with the user s one time use code gives the bank the tools to uniquely verify the provider s and the user s identity and presence during each transaction.

With payment transactions a customer user may wish to make a payment for a product or service to a vendor provider from a branded card e.g. Visa or MasterCard however paying with such a card generally exposes the user s personal and payment information either during the transaction itself or at later point as a result of a breach at one of the points nodes of the process where transaction records may be stored and maintained including the provider s servers . The payment process used to begin with the swiping of the card and signing the receipt. Today it can begin with a remotely transmitted signal in cyberspace. This results in what is termed a card not present CNP transaction. A CNP transaction adds risks to the vendor and the transaction because cyberspace takes away an ability to verify the presences of the purchaser user or the vendor provider and to actually verify the receipt of the goods or services. This increases costs which includes adding a higher risk of fraud.

Using the methods and systems herein to conduct a transaction means that no personal or private information is actually exchanged changing the state of the transaction in cyberspace. Once a registered user determines to initiate a transaction at a registered provider s physical or virtual site that user simply initiates their purchase or non purchase transaction. When the user is ready to conclude their transaction they initiate the checkout or transaction finalization step the user opens the user app on their device which prompts the provider to supply a transaction total if any and a transaction identification number. The user causes the transaction identification number and the transaction amount if any to be entered into the user app. The provider does the same.

The provider and the user then use their respective apps to independently send their half of the transaction to the bank by entering their separate PINs into the app on their separate devices authorizing their part of the transaction and advising the bank to pair the transaction authorizations using the transaction identification number and to finalize the entire transaction recording the each party s authorization and electronic signature. This is done without the provider and user further communicating with each other.

The bank combines the two halves of the transaction to form a single request for authorization. The acquiring bank reformats the request for authorization of a non CNP transaction based upon the bank s verification as an authorized acquiring bank and according to the bank s independent verification of each party s presence each party s signature and agreement as to the terms of the agreement and the bank s verification of the user s payment card if applicable according the requirements of the payment network e.g. Visa or MasterCard . If applicable the bank then submits the transaction to the appropriate payment network gateway as a verified signature present transaction. The payment network routes the request to the issuing bank. The issuing bank either approves or declines the authorization generally based upon available funds and passes the decision back to the payment network. The result approve decline is relayed to the provider and the user and the transaction is concluded with a transaction receipt sent to each party by the bank. The bank also provides a transaction summary statement to each party at the end of each transaction cycle.

Unlike conventional payment transactions the provider e.g. vendor or merchant is not required store maintain and secure any personal information of the user e.g. name address credit card number etc. and instead only receives an indication from the user of a desire to pay for an item using the methods and systems herein. Because the provider does not receive any personal information of the user the provider is not responsible for safeguarding such information. An exception to this involves customer loyalty programs where a user voluntarily enrolls in a separate relationship with the provider. The bank may provide for this by recording the user s program identification to all receipts issued between the program registered provider and the program register user according to the bank s records. A receipt can be issued to the user and the provider following all transactions. That the user s and the provider s information is not exchanged during the transaction and is only verified by the bank also provides a higher level of security.

In non payment transactions a user independently submits a request to an intermediate entity e.g. the bank to verify an issue or combination of issues related to a transaction identity verification asset access network site or file access account registration current verification age verification etc. after being provided a unique transaction identifier number from the provider. As with a purchase transaction in a transaction request both parties are registered and both parties are verified. Also as with the purchase transaction the user does not submit and the provider does not receive any personal information of the user.

In a typical non payment transaction the user may seek access to a website access to records e.g. medical records access to databases etc. where the user is registered that supports use of the OTUC. When prompted the user selects a non payment use of the app e.g. by selecting an authorization menu choice on the app or entering 0.00 in the amount field etc. and chooses the website identifier from a list of registered sites and enters their PIN. The site provider transmits their OTUC together with the user s to the intermediate entity requesting confirmation for the level of authorization for which the user is authorized according to the sites protocols which may be as simple as age or access verification or as complex as a coded level clearance. The level of access authentications permissions allows a user s access within a site to be limited restricted and changed or cancelled. Access permission levels may also be administered by a local administrator an increasingly important issue for cloud environments. As with payment transactions the intermediate entity may maintain and provide a transaction summary statement to each party or the provider s governing entity.

Symmetric key algorithms are used by methods and systems herein to provide the same cryptographic keys for both encryption and decryption for each half of any given transaction. Given the unique structure and components of the one time use code the symmetric key provides an advantage to automating the one time use code process. The one time use code may not be used beyond the acquiring bank in purchase transactions because each payment network maintains its own requirements for that portion of such transactions. This advantage occurs because the sequencer which automatically changes with each use is used to generate a one time use cryptographic key for both encryption and decryption for one half of any given transaction. While convenient the requirement that both parties in this case the user or the provider and the intermediate entity each have access to the secret key is an issue with symmetric key encryption. The systems and methods herein overcome this hurdle by use of a single use sequencer imbedded into a one time use code generated by the app downloaded from the intermediate entity following the initial program registration process. For any range of reasons the app may be changed or replaced from time to time by logging onto the intermediate entity s appropriate site and downloading a new or updated version of the app.

Because such verifying transactions are finalized behind the intermediate entity s firewall the intermediate entity is responsible for providing the program apps APIs and the transactional cloud for processing these transactions. The intermediate entity and not the provider or user is also responsible for maintaining the records of each transaction and executing the transactional instructions of the providers and the users. In the transactions the intermediate entity s role is merely to execute instructions of the user s and provider s that are used to finalizing each transaction.

By agreement the ability to finalize any transaction cannot exceed the information the intermediate entity has on hand. For example the intermediate entity s ability to finalize a purchase transaction involving a payment card issued by another bank has the acquiring bank process the payment to the issuing bank for verification that the funds are available. However because the acquiring bank is able to verify its customers presence their program registered payment cards and its customers verified electronic signatures program related requests for authorization to the issuing bank would be processed as person present card verified signature present and verified transactions rather than as a card not present transaction pending funds authorization from the issuing bank. This effectively means that the funds need only be available at the issuing bank in order for the transaction to be funded. It also means considerable savings in the costs of the transaction. Non payment transactions are concluded without the assistance of an issuing bank.

Thus the one time use code allows the use of personal devices including mobile devices to safely and securely conduct transactions in cyberspace. Further the methods and systems herein do this by allowing each party s information to be stored and maintained in a single place behind the bank s firewall. Also the methods and systems herein provide for transactions to be verified in a single place within the bank s transaction secure environment cloud with the limited access to and use of that environment restricted to verification of an encrypted OTUC the elements of which can only be verified by the bank.

The methods and systems herein provide a unique program and approach for securing cyber transactions online in person P2P WiFi mobile etc. that applies to both payment and non payment transactions. The methods and systems herein allow the bank to identify each party to each transaction create an electronic signature for each party providing for each such party to be bound at their request to their role under each transaction and to their instruction to the bank to finalize each transaction. Further the verified elements allow each cyber transaction to be finalized in real time.

The methods and systems herein operate over existing rails i.e. payment network systems reduce and simplify transactional steps. Further the methods and systems herein provide a program driver for banks merchants other institutions and businesses and consumers replace the user name and password scheme with a single one time use code that acts as a multi factor authenticator and eliminates fraud and associated risks storage costs exposures compliance costs etc. Additionally the methods and systems herein create an automatic audit trail support loyalty program options that are automatically updated with each transaction receipt without exposing personal or financial information to a provider.

The methods and systems herein also encrypt the transaction details and verifiers such as choice of payment card name address etc. providing loyalty program tracking and credit updates. Further the e signature the identity verification the person present verification age verification residence verification active enrollment verification and qualification verifications abilities of the program provide support for such online activities as online voting online gaming gambling remote signing of agreements and other documents in cyberspace etc.

The OTUC creates a safe and secure transactional platform in cyber space a transactional secure environment or TSE providing the basis for a secure bank interchange platform or provider transactional platform for supporting transactions in cyberspace. The requirement for merchants to store and secure payment card transaction records is eliminated and loyalty programs are transformed into automated receipt based systems. The methods and systems herein are useful for digital copy restrictor situations i.e. file identifier and user access permission authorization where mere access can generate a file copied identifier permission while unauthorized parties can trigger alarms by simply accessing files or unauthorized areas.

A history of litigations over the control and costs of card network transactions has highlighted even the government s frustration with ever increasing transaction costs including cyber transaction costs and the lack of alternatives. In part because the program operates over existing rails the self regulated payment networks are assured their reasonable program costs and banks maintain their regulated anchor role in the transactions to the benefit of all parties. This makes use of existing relationships providing for banks and regulators to fulfill their established roles. As such the intermediate entity is the ideal party to act as the centerpiece for verifying and securing all cyber transactions. The methods and systems herein provide the tool the symmetric key encryption program for securing transmitting and verifying the one time use code for simplifying i.e. automating and conveniently securing and verifying each transaction without the cost and need of establishing another network regulatory system or process.

As noted above the lack of cyber security has become seemingly accepted as a form of toll that all organizations and individuals must pay for accessing the information highway. The methods and systems herein bring together the tools to secure and finalize all transactions in cyberspace eliminating such tolls. More specifically the methods and systems herein provide solutions that position the program bank to verify each registered program member s actual presence or actual agreement to be deemed present during a transaction to verify each party s understanding and agreement to each transaction to verify each party s legal signature agreeing to the terms of the transaction to verify each party s agreement to either pay for a product or service deliver a product or service or otherwise be held accountable for their performance under the terms of each agreement and to maintain a central record storage point for each transaction.

In order to carry out and safeguard the instructions and agreement of the parties to a transaction the bank uses the OTUCs to verify each party s presence verifying the code s elements to the banks secure records and under instruction from each party to bind and to finalize each transaction affixing each party s OTUC as their unique eSignature see ESIGN Act of 2000 to the time stamped record of each transaction. A transaction receipt verifying each transaction is sent to each party acknowledging the bank s execution of the transaction at each party s instruction and notifying each that the bank has stored and will maintain a master copy of the transaction per each party s instructions and under each party s agreement with the bank established when each party opened its program account with the bank.

As noted above each use of the OTUC serves to eliminate fraud and the need for unproductive mitigation procedures and extraneous costs by verifying the elements allowing each cyber transaction to be finalized. Also as stated the methods and systems herein allow the bank to verify that the parties are actually present during each transaction and allow each party to instruct the bank to finalize each transaction sealing those instructions with each instructing party s verifiable electronic signature the OTUC . The records are stored and maintained by the bank with a receipt sent to each of the parties.

Because the bank is merely following the instructions of its customers authorization for which each party executed when they enrolled in the program the bank is taking no responsibility in the transaction other than to verify each of its customer s authorization and agreement. The bank s agency is limited to verifying the parties presence their payment card s and their verified electronic signature using the KYC records it verified and maintains as a requirement of law and the one time use code and following their the clients instructions to finalize the transaction and hold each party responsible for their agreed role. The bank also keeps a verified record of each transaction again as an agreed service to each customer.

In order to accomplish its instructions the bank provides the app to each customer user and provider which creates the OTUC for each transaction as described above with each party conveying that OTUC to the bank s platform cloud in order for the bank to fulfill its clients instructions. Each party s OTUC is used for the transaction details each party s identifiers are used for comparison to the records in the bank s files each party s instruction is used to verify and finalize the transaction and the transactional receipt is used to confirm each such transaction.

As noted above for a payment transaction the bank acts as an acquiring bank reformatting the request for authorization according to the requirements of the particular card network Visa MasterCard American Express etc. and forwarding the request as a person and payment card verified signature present transaction rather than a CNP transaction . The OTUC is based upon identifier values those values combine to allow only the bank to validate the identity and presence of the parties the OTUC is a multi factor authenticator which cannot be replicated without permission or access to and control over the bank s servers and the bank is a regulated entity. These factors together with the ability to confirm the ever changing sequencer values create an efficient secure environment for cyber transactions.

As noted above cyber security is compromised by the exchange and storage of information and securing this information once it has been exposed is at best a Herculean task. The methods and systems herein eliminate this exchange of information and create a barrier to the use of information that has been exposed using the bank s OTUC. The elements of the methods and systems for the herein OTUC are values that the bank takes from each party s personal information personal value identifiers at the time of registration. These elements are combined with values the bank takes from each party s registered device device identifier . These values are combined with a progressive sequencer as the elements of the OTUC all of which are encrypted prior to being transmitted to the bank from an app on the user s or provider s device along with a payment source instruction related each party s eWallet at the bank for purchase transactions. It is the bank s internal protocols as well as those of the code itself that prevent the replication for use of any user s or provider s OTUC.

The methods and systems herein run as any payment card industry transaction would beyond the point of the acquiring bank reformatting the request for authorization and submitting the transaction to the appropriate card network. Again the parties participating in a transaction are registered and approved by the bank and the app is installed and configured on the respective devices. Further there can only be a single bank or bank consortium operating as the acquiring bank. Also both parties participating in a transaction are connected to the Internet and have access to the bank s site. Further the acquiring bank has a bank cloud that operates the methods and systems herein. All payment card industry elements are in place for the acquiring bank such as interchange rails etc.

With respect to some common terminology the bank cloud is the system that the bank designs and implements to talk to their infrastructure and the bank cloud contains the API entry points accessed by the apps on devices. The app is the software machine that generates the one time use identifiers that interact with other apps and the bank cloud and such software is similar whether it is on a merchant s device or consumer s device. Transaction identification identifies a transaction and allows the two halves of a transaction to find each other in the bank cloud. An account identification refers to either the user or provider file identifier and is what the acquiring bank uses to look up each party s account to access the current sequencer value and other data used to decrypt the one time use code data and processing the transaction via payment card industry rails with respect to a purchase transaction and returning verification decision with respect to a non purchase transaction. The encrypted data is the data encrypted by the app and contains several key value pairs of data and the encrypted data is the OTUC . The methods herein obfuscate the sequencer so the encryption keys are random looking strings.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates the flow of data between entities when initiating a payment transaction. When a consumer user is ready to pay for services the merchant provider uses their app to create a payment transaction total. Upon being notified by the user that payment will occur using the methods and systems herein the provider activates their app if not already active chooses receive payment from the options enters the amount of the transaction including tax discounts etc. Optional provider requests might include or be limited to age verification delivery address etc. The provider then clicks generate bill which shows the bill. The provider now waits for payment. On the provider app screen there is a not paid indicator and when the user pays their bill this indicator will change to paid. 

When the provider generates the bill the provider generates transaction identifier assembles the transaction data to be encrypted and encrypts such data e.g. a JavaScript Object Notation JSON object and may create for example a quick reference QR machine readable code with bill particulars which may be used by the user and user app for mobile or in person transactions. As shown in by the darker line the provider may display or transfer the computer or human readable code to the user . As shown by the darker line in the provider app may then assemble and send its part of the transaction to the bank cloud where it will sit until the transaction is completed or cancelled. The information used by the user s program app to convey the user s information to the bank is the transaction identifier the user account identifier with the bank the identifier for payment card to used and the transaction amount. As such these values may be entered manually into the user app or may be automatically or otherwise entered if the user s device has direct communication with the provider s system.

In one variation of payment choice there may be a visible computer readable code on the provider s device for the user to read. The user activates their app if not already active chooses make payment from options which brings up a camera box in the app and captures the code and brings up the next screen on the user app.

When choosing payment method there are external accounts Visa or MasterCard checking account etc. that the user can tie to their account. The user selects the payment type and the app records the choice. The user reviews the bill on their device containing the purchase amount and other requests. For example if a delivery address is requested a pop up will open and the user can select a delivery address. The payment section on the consumer app will display a variation of type in your PIN to execute this transaction. When the user types in their PIN the next screen will indicate processing payment . . . until the transaction is finalized. In terms of a non payment transaction this screen will indicate processing transaction . . . . 

In terms of a computer readable code or similar conventional program support function when the user app recognizes the code or function it decodes it into its elements and then stores the transaction identification and information. The user app displays the payment amount merchant name etc. and waits for the PIN to be entered. When the user types in their PIN the consumer app sends its part of the transaction to the bank cloud and waits for transaction result.

Then as shown in at this point the bank has both sides i.e. provider and user of the transaction. The bank matches both sides of the transaction using the transaction identifier decrypts both sides of the transaction by accessing the duplicate app of each party s program app to verify retrieve each party s decryption key verifies both parties creates a payment card industry request for authorization and makes a request to interchange portal . The interchange portal in turn forwards the request to the issuing bank . This is shown by the darkened lines in . The remainder of this payment transaction is identical to any other payment card industry transaction. Based upon the result funds available or not the issuing bank sends an authorization or decline or error message and the parties are notified item in .

While the general framework is set forth above in some specific examples a merchant JSON object is passed to the consumer app item by way of for example computer readable code. That object contains fields that the consumer s device app uses to complete the transaction and such fields can include among other for example 

Merchant JSON Object Passed to bank Cloud e.g. the object that gets encrypted into a OTUC can be for example 

The user s information is stored on the bank s servers generally spread across multiple servers behind the bank s firewalls and this user information is securely accessible by the bank cloud. Each account includes both primary account information and device information such as that shown in . More specifically in the primary account information stored on servers behind the bank s firewalls can include the account identification user account number name billing address etc. As shown in the device information stored on servers behind the bank s firewalls for different devices one user account can be linked to multiple devices can similarly include the account identification user account number device identification using manufacturer model serial number internal component identifiers processor serial number hard drive serial number mother board serial number etc. sequencer identifier again each sequencer is unique other identifiers strings generically identified as salt pepper etc. in etc.

As noted above a sequencer is assigned to every device registered to an account. The sequencer increments with every transaction and is used as both a value variable for the OTUC and as the encryption decryption key. Because corresponding identical sequencers identically increment on the device and in the bank cloud both parties can generate the same encryption key for a given transaction but for every transaction the identical encryption keys produced in part using a uniquely sequenced number generated by the matching sequencers is different.

To provide a higher level of encryption the number produced by the matching sequencers is applied to a hashing function. More specifically a hash function produces the encryption key created by the app to encrypt the data and the encryption key is also produced in part using a uniquely sequenced number generated by the bank cloud to decrypt the same data. For example the encryption key can be created by hashing the strings string 1 sequencer string 2 in any order . Again the same as salt and pepper in string 1 and string 2 here just refer to random string characters that are combined with the sequencer number in any order . These random string characters string 1 and string 2 are assigned when the device is registered are unique to each device and do not change however by combining such random string characters with an incrementing number produced in part using a uniquely sequenced number generated by the sequencers each time the combination of non changing random character strings and sequencer number are hashed a unique one time use encryption is identically produced by the matching sequencers the sequencer operating on the user s device and the matching sequencer at the bank or other intermediary . The random character strings and hashing function are used so that the encryption key cannot be determined using a brute force attack with incrementing numeric keys.

Again the encryption described herein is used to safeguard the data going from the app to the bank cloud and the encryption uses a sequencer to create an ever changing key pair on the device and server. The OTUC is the body of what both sides of the transaction sends to the bank cloud. It includes the transaction identification the account identification in unencrypted form and the encrypted string. In one specific example the app can create the OTUC as follows .

Step 3 create the encryption key by hashing together the string 1 sequencer string 2 then increment the sequencer.

Step 4 decrypt the encrypted string using the key. The methods now have the key value pairs of information that was encrypted.

Step 5 verify that device id belongs to account id and that the amount of both sides merchant side and consumer side matches.

Step 6 retrieve the method of payment the consumer specified from their account and delivery address if applicable .

At this point all the validation has been performed and all data used to ride on the payment card industry rails has been gathered and the acquiring bank makes an API call to get a new transaction identification. This is called by the initiator of a transaction and checks to make sure the device has an active connection to the bank cloud retrieves a new transaction identification from the bank cloud retrieves routing information if necessary . Such routing information is included in the computer readable code for the consumer and tells the app exactly to which bank cloud subdomain to connect.

Transactions are logged using a stacked hash algorithm that ensures that every transaction for every device is recorded in the order that they occurred. For example a log that is associated with every device can include a first column that contains the hash of the previous lines 2 hashes if this is the first entry into the log it is seeded . The second column can contain a hash of the third column which is the transaction data. This logging continues for however long the device is making transactions and such a log can be used for any proof purpose e.g. to be presented in a court of law to prove transaction validity etc. . Also the methods and systems herein can use web sockets to allow information to be pushed back to the app on any device.

While the foregoing generally explains the operations of the methods and systems herein a more complete understanding can be found through the following examples. In one example a user may wish to purchase items from a merchant through browser on a cell phone. When the user is ready to pay for the items in the shopping cart they can choose the payment method from the payment options. When this happens the merchant servers combine various elements into an application readable format. The required elements may consist of transaction id merchant id amount etc. and be combined into a JSON object or similar data containing structure. It is worthwhile to note that represents the key value pairs of data. It is also worthwhile to note that this is the data contained in any computer readable codes that are created.

At this point the merchant sends their half of the transaction to the bank cloud where the transaction will wait for the consumer transaction to make its way to the bank cloud. By send what is meant is that a call is made to the bank s API with the key value pairs as would occur with any traditional transaction. The merchant waits for a response back from the bank which happens once one of the following condition are met the transaction times out e.g. there was a network error or the consumer did not type in their PIN in the allowed timeframe the transaction is approved and the merchant gets an authorization code or the transaction is declined and the merchant is notified of a transaction error.

The merchant immediately after posting their half of the transaction to the bank cloud also provides the JSON object to the consumer. The consumer highlights and copies this data to the devices clipboard. This can be achieved in a number of ways. For example the user can highlight the data and click copy or the merchant can provide a button which will copy the data to the clipboard.

Next the consumer opens the app on their phone and pastes the JSON into the JSON box. The app evaluates the data creates the OTUC and prompts the user to type in their PIN if they want to pay the merchant the amount shown. The consumer half of the transaction is also a JSON package or something similar including key value pairs of data. This package includes the transaction identification file identification and the OTUC and can be presented for example as 

When the consumer types in their PIN the above package is sent to the bank cloud where it is matched to the merchant half by comparing the transaction identification. Once matched the bank will verify both the merchant and consumer through the file identification decrypt the OTUC compare the amount in the OTUC with that presented by the merchant check the consumer s balance and authorize the transaction if all the conditions are met. Both the consumer and merchant are then notified. When the merchant receives an authorization code they can rest easy knowing that they made a sale with no fear the sale will turn into a chargeback. The entire transaction should take several milliseconds less than traditional transactions.

In this example regarding what the merchant does to support this transaction the merchant sets up their checkout page to hook into the API bank cloud . Regarding a computer readable code there can be one visible on the merchant page but with browsers on mobile devices there is no easy way to snapshot it so a copy of the JSON is used instead. In this example both merchant and consumer use a connection to the Internet. Regarding whether it is possible to go through SMS messaging and not through the Internet methods and systems herein can set up the device software to send a text to the bank s cloud. The authorization is sent to the merchant as normal and the bank sends an SMS response to the consumer instead of through the Internet. Also the merchant app can also use SMS to upload their half of the transaction and this is useful in developing countries where cellular service is widely available while the Internet is not. The methods and systems herein work well when both halves of the transaction are able to independently reach the bank for matching and processing.

Another example makes a purchase through a merchant s app on a cell phone. Here when the user is ready to pay for items in their shopping cart they choose the payment option. The merchant sends up their half of the transaction then the merchant app looks for the app opens it if not already opened and passes the JSON object to the app. From this point everything works as in the previous example the user types in their PIN and the consumer half of the transaction is sent to the cloud to be matched and processed. Confirmations are sent to both consumer and merchant and the transaction is complete. Again here the merchant builds the API bank cloud into their app and no computer readable code is involved as the app itself passes the pertinent data to the app.

In another example a purchase is made on a personal computer with the app operating on the personal computer. At checkout the payment option is chosen the merchant compiles data and sends their half to the bank s cloud. From here the merchant may choose to provide both the JSON object and a computer readable code. The consumer opens up their app and does one of two things 1 they can choose to capture the computer readable code by drawing a box around it app feature or 2 they can simply copy and paste the JSON into the app. Once the app receives the JSON or computer readable code it will turn the computer readable code back into JSON the user app will as in the above cases prompt the user to enter their PIN to purchase. Everything else is as in the previous examples. Here the merchant builds the API bank cloud into their checkout page.

In a further example a purchase is made on a personal computer with an app operating on a phone or tablet. At checkout on the personal computer the user chooses the payment option. The merchant submits their half and provides the JSON and computer readable code on the checkout page. At this point the consumer operates their phone opens the app and centers the camera box over the computer readable code appearing on the screen of their personal computer. The app on the phone converts the computer readable code back to JSON creates the consumer half of the transaction and submits to bank cloud for processing.

In a different example a user can make an in store purchase with the app operating on a phone or tablet. At checkout a computer readable code appears on the merchant s point of sale system. The merchant s transaction half is sent up to cloud and the merchant waits. The user opens up their app and again centers the camera box over the computer readable code. The app will again convert it to JSON show the consumer the purchase amount create the OTUC and require PIN. Both halves meet in the cloud and both parties are notified of success. Here the merchant has a point of sale system with capabilities and both the merchant and the consumer use a connection to the Internet.

In an additional example the methods and systems herein are used to verify identity without any purchasing element . All of the above examples can be used here simply with the purchase price element removed to turn the transaction into an identity verification system. Each half of the transaction would meet up in the bank s cloud and be authorized or declined based on the same set of rules. Additional requests might include age verification which would be included in the returned authorization to the entity requiring authorization.

A further example is a person to person money exchange. In this example two users want to exchange money between each other and they do so simply by both opening up their app. Either sender or receiver can initiate the transaction. If a sender their JSON elements are created and compiled and the receiver takes a snapshot of the computer readable code to receive the funds. If the receiver is requesting money they can enter the request amount their app compiles the JSON data and turns it into the QR Code. The payer sender centers the camera box over the receiver s computer readable code. The payer is prompted to pay the amount by typing in their PIN. Both sides meet up in the cloud for processing. This example is very useful for street vendors food truck owners etc.

Regarding the details of establishing an account a user establishes a one time use code OTUC account by providing the bank bank with the know your customer KYC information. The related processes are used to conform to a customer identification program CIP KYC information requirements. After verifying this information the bank establishes a wallet account wallet for the user and instructs the user that any payment payment card program the user intends to use under the OTUC is added to the wallet then verified and assigned an account reference code.

The user can link each of user device to the wallet for access to any specific payment account however this requires foot printing each device in order to identify each device separately as part of the OTUC. Once a device has been foot printed and added to the user s account the user app for the OTUC may be downloaded to the specific device and the user may initiate any OTUC transaction from that device by activating the application on the specific device and entering the user s PIN. Only registered devices with an OTUC specific to that device may be used under the OTUC.

To use the OTUC in order to secure a transaction the transaction provider provider e.g. a merchant in a purchase transaction or a website operator in a non payment transaction is also registered and approved with the acquiring bank as a provider. More specifically a provider establishes a OTUC account by providing the bank with its KYC information. After verifying this information the bank establishes a provider account merchant account for the specific provider. The provider then downloads the program API from the bank allowing the provider to add the OTUC to its transactional platform. The provider program encrypts the provider s transactional information forming a OTUC specific to the transaction and allowing it to be paired by the bank with the user s OTUC.

The acquiring bank can be a central element of all OTUC transactions and all OTUC participants are required therefore to establish and maintain a OTUC account with the bank. The bank is often a large issuer and acquirer of payment transactions familiar with reformatting requests for authorization and this is useful because payment card programs processed under the OTUC program are processed through the payment card networks however they are not processed as card not present transactions they are processed as verified i.e. card signature and cardholder verified transactions . The bank also maintains all records of all OTUC transactions minimizing the exposure of such records. Also some banks can provide loyalty program information to merchants under the program by including loyalty program member account numbers with every transaction receipt which are provided to each party to a transaction confirming each transaction.

The OTUC is a single use code that is formed using elements of the following. For the user 1 user identifier values as established and verified by the bank under the KYC procedures 2 the user s account number with the acquiring bank 3 the provider s transaction session number 4 a transaction sequencer 5 and the total dollar value of the transaction this value is added to the encrypted transaction file allowing the bank an additional verification value once the file is decrypted e.g. 0 value for a non purchase transaction . For the provider 1 provider identifier values as established and verified by the bank under the KYC procedures 2 The provider s account number with the bank 3 the provider s transaction or session number 4 and the total dollar value of the transaction. The app downloaded and installed by each user generates a new OTUC for each transaction that must be confirmed by the bank for each transaction before the transaction can be further processed and finalized.

In item a secure session is established between the intermediate entity and the user provider and personal information of the user provider is provided to the intermediate entity during such session. Such personal information can include names addresses birthdates bank account numbers tax ID numbers social security numbers family names and relationships passwords etc. After this information is provided securely to the intermediate entity the app optionally deletes such information from all locations within the user provider devices.

During the registration process in item the intermediate entity provides a computer program application to each registered user and provider and such applications allow the intermediate entity to control certain operations of the user devices and provider devices and cause the user and provider devices to take certain actions. Each application so provided maintains a unique sequencer that generates codes that are used as parts of encryption keys or encryption codes . Each user provider is also provided one or more unique alphanumeric encryption strings during registration. The number sequenced by the sequencers is used in combination with such unique alphanumeric encryption strings that do not change and are not sequenced and the combination of both is applied to a hash function to generate the encryption keys. During registration each provider and user electronically sign an agreement to be bound by their actions taken and consents provided through their respective apps. Further each contract is identifiable by a unique contract identifier that is different for each user and provider and this contract identifier is one of the items that can be included within each transaction. Therefore this relationship begins with registration which binds the bank and the user and the bank and the provider to a contractual relationship.

Also the intermediate entity maintains duplicate apps containing duplicate sequencers for each app sequencer that it provides to a user or provider and the duplicate sequencers produce the exact same codes as the provider user sequencer to which the duplicate sensor corresponds for a given transaction because the duplicate sequencers are always synchronized with each individual sequencer in each individual application. More specifically each user provider app s sequencer and a corresponding duplicate app sequencer maintained by the intermediate entity are programmed to generate the exact same sequence of different codes. Also each time an application sequencer generates part of an encryption key the application communicates with the duplicate sequencer maintained by the intermediate entity to keep the two sequencers synchronized. Thus each time a new sequenced number is requested from each sequencer the application sequencer and the corresponding duplicate sequencer maintained by the intermediate entity both sequencers generate the same new different sequenced number. The user provider sequencers thus generate sequenced numbers that are used to generate one time use encryption keys for the registered user devices and the registered provider devices that are unique to each other and unique to each transaction.

In item the provider inputs various details about the transaction e.g. quantity price amount access being requested authorization being requested etc. into the application running on the provider device. In item a registered provider device can use its provider application to request a new transaction number for a new transaction between that provider and one of the registered users. Alternatively in item the provider app can self generate a unique transaction number that the intermediate entity would expect by way of the duplicate app to the provider app maintained by the intermediate entity .

The transaction number is what the bank uses to pair the user s OTUC with the provider s OTUC in order to confirm each portion of the transaction. For that reason the transaction number is not encrypted. Because the encryption key for each of the provider and user OTUCs is maintained within each party s account records each party s account identifier is also not encrypted. The purpose for generating unique transaction numbers and sending an unencrypted unique transaction number with the encrypted portion of the one time use code is to allow the user and the provider part of the transaction to be paired by the intermediary entity bank. The user and provider account identifiers are the only other unencrypted portion of the transaction code. In response in item if not self generated by the provider app the intermediate entity supplies a unique transaction number to the provider device that requested the transaction number. Again the intermediate entity or provider app generates a different unique transaction number for each different transaction.

This is also shown in where a provider device illustrated in as a screenshot of the provider app shown on the provider device requests a new transaction number Trans. No. from an intermediate entity device and the provider device receives the same in return. For example in a purchase or an access authorization transaction a registered user may verbally or electronically inform a registered provider that they wish to use the intermediate entity to complete a transaction with the registered provider without providing any identifying or personal information to the registered provider. This provides substantial user privacy protection because with the systems and methods herein the user does not identify themselves to any registered provider and the user remains completely anonymous to the provider. Without having any information about the user the provider merely makes a request to the intermediate entity for the new transaction number in item .

The intermediate entity causes controls the provider device through the application to supply the unique transaction number to the user device internally wirelessly optically by having the provider verbally convey the transaction number to the user etc. as shown in item . This is also shown in where a user device optically scans a computer readable code displayed on the provider device screen the scanning action as shown as item in . The code includes the transaction details and the unique transaction number. The provider device can also optionally display some human readable information such as quantity of items being purchased and the total amount due item and can also display the transaction number in human readable form. Additionally illustrates a screen of the user app displayed on the graphic user interface of the user device that displays a menu option e.g. button to cause the user device to scan the computer readable code .

Thus in item the intermediate entity can cause through the app the provider device to display the computer readable code on a visible display of the provider device a display that is readable by an optical device of the user device can cause through the app the provider device to display a human readable code on the display of the provider device positioned to be readable by the user etc. For example illustrates an entry field of the user app where the user can manually enter e.g. type speak etc. a human readable code into the user device after reading the human readable code on the display of the provider device after which the user can select the submit menu choice to submit the manually entered code . The provider device can alternately wirelessly electronically transmit e.g. using wireless fidelity WiFi technology near field communication NFC technology etc. a code to the user device using a wireless device of the provider device that is capable of wirelessly communicating with a wireless device of the user device and this is also illustrated by item in . In other situations the intermediate entity can cause through the app the provider device to internally electronically communicate the unique transaction number from a first application operating on the user device to a second application operating on the user device and again this is conceptually illustrated by item in . Therefore item also illustrates a user cutting and pasting the unique transaction code from one app browser app to the user app internally transferring the unique transaction code within the user device .

In item after receiving the code from the provider the user can input a password or personal identification number PIN into the application running on the provider device. This is shown for example in where the user app running on the user device presents a screen on its graphic user interface that contains an entry field for a password or PIN and the user selects the submit menu option button after entering their password or PIN . Again the code contains the unique transaction number and transaction details entered by the provider in item . Therefore in one implementation the methods and systems herein can display such transaction details shown as items in for the user to review before the user enters their password PIN and by executing the submit pay button the user indicates their consent to pay for the items shown on the user device display.

As noted above during registration the user securely uploads personal and financial data to the intermediate entity and such information is thereafter maintained by the intermediate entity which can be for example a bank or other similar institution and can have highly sophisticated existing security systems . Such personal and financial information does not need to be and in many implementations is not stored in any form on the user device . Instead the application running on the user device maintains a unique user account identifier that is only known by the user device and the intermediate entity and similarly the application running on the provider device maintains a unique provider account identifier that is only known by the provider device and the intermediate entity.

This user account identifier is different than the user account number but is used by the intermediate entity e.g. through a look up table maintained by the intermediate entity to identify the user account number. The same is true for the provider account identifier and provider account number.

The user provider account identifiers can be fixed data items e.g. alphanumeric code that are simply stored on the user provider devices in the user provider apps stored at registration or the user provider identifiers can be data items that are generated each time they are requested using a function that would produce a data result that the intermediate entity would expect to be produced . For example in some implementations a function could be applied to various hardware identifiers of the user provider device that do not change serial numbers of the processor memory hard drive etc. to produce a data value. During registration the intermediate entity executes this function and stores the resulting data value in electronic memory of the intermediate entity as the user identifier to allow the intermediate entity to compare future user identifiers submitted during future transaction with the stored user identifier data value maintained by the intermediate entity to authenticate the user device. Therefore in item the user provider do not need to enter any information except their password PIN because the remainder of the information that will identify the user provider device is maintained or generated by the app running on the user provider device simplifying the user provider experience and increasing user provider satisfaction .

In item the intermediate entity causes controls using the application the registered provider device to encrypt the provider input that is related to the transaction that is being completed between the provider device and the registered user device . This creates an encrypted one time use provider code and such encryption is performed using a one time use provider encryption key produced in part using a uniquely sequenced number generated by the provider sequencer maintained by the provider device. More specifically as noted above each user provider is provided one or more unique alphanumeric encryption strings during registration. The number generated sequenced by the sequencers is used in combination with such unique alphanumeric encryption strings that do not change and are not sequenced and the combination of both the sequenced number and the unique alphanumeric encryption strings is applied to a hash function to generate the one time use encryption keys. This produces different one time use encryption keys for the user and provider for a given transaction.

Again the unique transaction number and the provider user identification data are not encrypted to allow the encrypted one time use provider code to be routed properly within the intermediate entity s internal system. However the data that is encrypted includes the details of the transaction e.g. price quantity item for which authorization is sought etc. as shown by item and can optionally include the user provider account numbers that allow the intermediate entity verify the identity of the user or provider an identification of the type of transaction purchase vs. authorization the contract identifier selection of payment method e.g. identification of a card type or bank name without including any card numbers or bank account numbers the next sequencer number additional pins for different levels of access.

More specifically the data that is encrypted first allows the intermediate entity to verify the identity of each party using for example the encrypted account numbers of the provider user which as noted above are distinguished from the unencrypted account identifiers . Therefore in the situation where the provider it is only attempting to verify the identity of the user when providing access to a certain asset the user account number and an identification of the access or access level being requested might be the only pieces of information that are encrypted. Along the same line the user can be prompted by the user app to enter one or more additional passwords or pins into the user interface of the user device in order to gain different levels of access to an asset and such additional passwords or pins would be encrypted to allow the provider to know whether to permit or deny certain levels of access.

In another example of the type of data that is encrypted a user may have identified multiple bank accounts bank cards or credit cards that they would like to use for purchase transactions during registration with the intermediate entity . In such a situation the user app will provide a choice among such previously registered accounts or cards on the user device graphic user interface when displaying the details of the purchase transaction. However because sometimes the actual card and account numbers are not maintained on the user device for added security the card numbers or bank account numbers may not be displayed on the user device graphic user interface and instead shorthand identifiers e.g. Card 1 Chase Visa Amex gold etc. can be used in place of actual credit card numbers or bank account numbers on the graphic user interface of the user device. Therefore rather than encrypting the actual card numbers or account numbers the systems and methods herein encrypt such shorthand identifiers substitute identifiers . The intermediate entity can maintain a lookup table that correlates such shorthand identifiers to the actual card numbers and bank account numbers where such a lookup table is established during user registration .

As noted above during registration each user and provider agrees to a specific contract which is identified by the contract identifier. This contract identifier can be included within the encrypted data of the encrypted one time use code. By including the contract identifier within the encrypted information the systems and method herein form a unique binding contract between each user and provider for each given transaction. Specifically the intermediate entity maintains a record of the users provider contract numbers for a given transaction thereby forming an individual binding contract for each given transaction. This contract identification therefore changes the transaction from a card not present cnp transaction into an out of scope transaction where the person and payment card is verified as a signature present transaction which reduces or eliminates the risk of charge back to the provider delivering the access or good to the user.

Additionally in some situations they next sequencer number can be included within the encrypted portion of the encrypted one time use code. This allows the intermediate entity to verify that the sequencer within the user provider app is synchronized with the duplicate app maintained by the intermediate entity. Additionally in some situations this could allow the intermediate entity to avoid maintaining its own sequencers.

Thus when the user and provider register with the intermediate entity the intermediate entity assigns each user and provider an individual account identifier such as an alphanumeric string that corresponds to the user s provider s registered account with the intermediate entity and this account identifier along with the unique transaction number are left unencrypted so that the intermediate entity can identify which user and which provider are involved with a specific transaction. However each user and each provider can also be provided with additional identification information such as other alphanumeric codes special names user provider device hardware identifiers such as those noted above etc. that are different than the unencrypted unique alphanumeric encryption strings used for encryption at registration. Such additional identification information can be included within the encrypted portion of the one time use code. After decryption the intermediate entity compares such previously encrypted additional identification information e.g. the actual user provider account number with the corresponding data stored within the intermediate entity at registration to help verify the identity of the user and provider attempting to complete a transaction.

Therefore as shown in item instead of the user supplying any personal or financial information to the provider related to the transaction the intermediate entity causes controls the user device using the user app to encrypt user input related to the transaction to create an encrypted one time use user code using a one time use user encryption key produced in part using a uniquely sequenced number generated by a user sequencer maintained by the user device. As noted above the combination of the sequenced number generated by the user s sequencer and the unique alphanumeric encryption strings provided to the user during registration are combined and applied to a hash function to generate the user s encryption key for the instant transaction. The user data that is encrypted can include the user s password PIN although such password PIN is initially used locally to permit the user provider app to perform the actions of encrypting and sending the one time use code as well as the details of the transaction that the user received from the provider that was contained in the computer readable code and possibly the additional identification information mentioned above however the unique transaction number and the user provider account identifiers are not encrypted to allow the one time use user code to be routed properly within the intermediate entity s internal system.

Again the encrypted one time use provider code and the encrypted one time use user code are devoid of personal financial information e.g. user name user address bank account numbers credit card numbers social security numbers date of birth mother s maiden name etc. of the user and instead such encrypted one time use codes are used to securely and positively identify the provider and user and the transaction details.

Again in a purchase transaction the encrypted one time use user code can also indicate a payment means. As part of the registration process with the program bank intermediate entity the user creates an eWallet. For purchase transactions the encrypted one time use user code can also identify which payment card or account is to be used to pay for the items using substitute or shorthand names if the user has registered multiple forms of payment with the intermediate entity. The user s one time use code is applied to this instruction as the user s electronic signature verified time stamped and maintained as a transaction record by the bank intermediate entity. The bank intermediate entity then processes this transaction as an out of scope transaction as the account holder has been verified as present the account has been verified and the signature has been verified and stored.

As noted above the user and the provider devices each only maintain a unique individual app sequencer that is unique to each specific device and the user and the provider devices do not have access to apps sequencers of other user devices or other provider devices. The intermediate entity maintains a duplicate app sequencer of each app sequencer that is maintained by each user or provider device and such duplicate sequencers are always synchronized with the unique individual sequencers of the user and provider devices. The synchronization is controlled by the fact that each time a sequencer is generated a new and unique sequencer is prepared for the next use according to a protocol established by the intermediate entity bank at the time the user or provider apps are initially generated and electronically downloaded to the user provider devices.

Therefore the input provided in item does not contain any personal information about the user no name address credit card bank account etc. as such items have been previously supplied to the intermediate entity during registration and instead the input in item can relate only to the subject matter of the transaction e.g. quantity price amount access being requested authorization being requested etc. identification of the user provider and identification of the transaction.

Thus the intermediate entity bank generates the app that is installed on each provider and user device. This app is remote and when activated generates a new one time use code OTUC encrypted using the new sequencer as a unique encryption key by the user s or provider s entry of their separate PINs on their separate devices at the end point of each transaction causing the app to generate the OTUC and transmit it to the bank. Following this a new sequence number will be generated by the app for the next transaction. The user provider app that performs the process described herein is downloaded electronically transmitted over a computer network from the intermediate entity to the user and provider devices after each registers with the intermediate entity e.g. program bank or bank group consortium . Each user and provider merely provides the unencrypted transaction identifier and their separate unencrypted account identifier to allow proper routing of the encrypted data.

In other words the user provider app generates the codes from the registered user and provider account files combined with a unique sequencer also generated by the app for each transaction. The sequencer then serves different purposes first it acts to change the value of the one time use code with each use and second the sequencer itself is used to generate the encryption key which is why the bank has access the client file to retrieve the duplicate key in order to decrypt the file. A purpose of the duplicate sequencers within each duplicate app maintained by the intermediate entity is to generate the decryption code for the intermediate entity. The duplicate app and duplicate sequencer maintained by the intermediate entity allow the systems and methods herein to automatically generate a unique sequencer value as an encryption key for the user and provider together with a duplicate sequencer value for use by the intermediate entity bank as a decryption key.

The automated mirroring duplicating of the encryption keys at separate points is produced by a unique set of processing instructions for each provider user which can be immediately accessed and paired with each transaction. This is why the user provider identifiers are unencrypted and transmitted with the receipt of each encrypted one time use code. Each time a sequencer is used a new and unique numerical sequence is generated. The user provider account identifiers included in the encrypted file are used by the bank to verify the identities of parties and their intent with respect to each transaction. Once these identifiers are verified they represent each party s verified electronic signature as provided under the ESIGN Act of 2000. By identifying the parties based on their signed separate instructions through the contract identifiers to the intermediate entity allows the intermediate entity to finalize each transaction and holds the user provider accountable for their performance under each transaction.

In item the intermediate entity causes controls the provider device using the provider app to transmit the one time use provider code unique transaction number and provider identifier only to the intermediate entity. Similarly in item the intermediate entity causes controls the user device using the user app to transmit independently of the provider device the one time use user code the unique transaction number and the user identifier only to the intermediate entity. This is also shown in where the user device and the provider device are both shown as transferring the encrypted one time use codes Encrypt. OTUC to the intermediate entity .

Again the provider sequencer and the user sequencer generate different sequenced numbers used to produce encryption keys for the transaction. Also the provider sequencer and the user sequencer are synchronized with the corresponding duplicate sequencers maintained by the intermediate entity. Thus the provider sequencer the user sequencer and the duplicate sequencers not only generate a different encryption key for the user and provider for each transaction they generate different one time use encryption keys for each different transaction to prevent any one time use encryption key from being used for different transactions.

In item the intermediate entity independently generates or regenerates the one time use provider encryption key and the one time use user encryption key using corresponding ones of the duplicate sequencers maintained by the intermediate entity and knowledge of the numerical strings issued to the user provider during registration and knowledge of the hash function . This allows the intermediate entity to decrypt the encrypted one time use provider code using the one time use provider encryption key and decrypt the encrypted one time use user code using the user unique encryption key in item . Thus the intermediate entity bank retrieves the decryption keys of the user and provider from the account files of each entity maintained by the intermediate entity where each intermediate entity bank client s duplicate app is stored. This desire to access the client s file is a reason for the client s file identifier to be transmitted unencrypted.

As a result of the decryption in item the intermediate entity generates unencrypted provider input and unencrypted user input. With the decrypted provider and user information the intermediate entity can check the user and provider registration records to verify the identities of the provider and user as shown in item . If any registration issues with the user or provider are discovered in item e.g. lapsed registration incorrect additional identification information such as alphanumeric codes special names user provider device hardware identifiers etc. discussed above violation of user provider terms etc. notifications can be sent to the user provider and the transaction can be immediately terminated. If the identities of the user and provider are found to be proper in item the intermediate entity combines the unencrypted provider input and unencrypted user input into a single authorization request in item .

The intermediate entity securely maintains the personal financial information of the user to relieve the user of that burden and in some situations the intermediate entity using the application can even prevent the user device from maintaining any personal financial information of the user. However in some situations such as in payment authorization requests or bank transactions the intermediate entity can retrieve financial information obtained during user provider registrations in item that the intermediate entity securely maintains such as a credit card number or bank account number and add such financial information of the user and or provider potentially in unencrypted form to the single authorization request in item that is sent to the authorization entity such as the issuing bank .

As shown in once the intermediate entity creates the single authorization request that contains the unencrypted user and or provider information in item the intermediate entity operates within a secure system e.g. operates behind a firewall or within some other form of secure network and securely sends the single authorization request unencrypted authorization to an authorization entity such as the user s bank an entity that verifies access rights etc. and this is shown in item in . In other situations especially non purchase transactions the intermediate entity can authorize the single authorization request and in such situations the intermediate entity is also the authorization entity and the intermediate entity can avoid sending the single authorization request to another entity because the intermediate entity determines the authorization itself.

Again in terms of a purchase transaction this request for authorization is processed to a payment network e.g. Visa or Mastercard to the card s issuing bank. The issuing bank then verifies whether or not the funds are available. If available the request is approved. If the funds are not available the bank declines the request. In terms of a non purchase transaction e.g. site access identity verification etc. the intermediate entity acquiring bank verifies the request for authorization transaction from the files and records maintained on its servers.

In response the authorization entity returns an authorization decision in item which is shown by the double headed arrow between items and in . In some cases the merchant processor may be the party advising the merchant that the transaction was approved or declined not the acquiring bank intermediate entity.

After the intermediate entity obtains the authorization decision regarding the single authorization request from an authorization entity the intermediate entity outputs the authorization decision to the provider and user in item to complete or decline the transaction with the user. The authorization decision supplied to the provider in item again is devoid of any user information devoid of any user identification user address user personal financial information etc. . For example as shown in the only information that is provided to the provider through the provider app on the graphic user interface of the provider device are details of the transaction and an indicator that approval is still awaiting approval still pending . When the approval is transmitted from the intermediate entity device to the provider device the indicator changes to Approved as shown by item in .

As noted the methods and systems herein are useful in both purchase transactions and non purchase transactions. In a purchase transaction the provider and the user are authorizing instructing the intermediate entity bank by their electronic signature using each OTUC to verify the elements of the transaction confirming the intent of each party and to transmit the request for authorization to the appropriate network and or issuing bank as a confirmed card identified person present signature present transaction holding each party responsible for their performance under the transaction. This is made possible by the bank s verification of each user and each provide at the time each opened their program account with the bank under the bank regulations governing the know your customer process.

Therefore at the inception of the transaction in item through to when the provider is notified of approval denial of the transaction in item the provider is never given any information about the user. By preventing the provider from ever obtaining any information about the user the provider is freed of the responsibility and cost of keeping any user information safe and the user is more confident that their identity and personal information is secure because the provider is never made aware of any such user identity or user information .

Systems and methods herein permit the user to voluntarily divulge their identity to the provider using the application if they desire to for example maintain loyalty points allow the provider to track usage purchase patterns allow the provider to provide coupons etc. However with methods and systems herein the user is never required to divulge their identity or any other information to the provider.

Despite not knowing the identity of the user to the transaction the provider is still guaranteed that the user will complete their obligations due under the transaction by way of the contract identifier e.g. agrees to make payment agrees that they are who they say they are agrees that they are present to the transaction aggress to use data to which they have access agrees to take specific action because the user contractually agrees to complete their obligations when they register as a user in item . Therefore the provider is guaranteed that the user will complete their obligations under the transaction and the user s identity and information is never presented to the provider with systems and methods herein.

As would be understood by one ordinarily skilled in the art the processes described herein cannot be performed by human alone or one operating with a pen and a pad of paper and instead such processes can only be performed by a machine. Specifically processes such as encryption electronic transmission of data over networks etc. requires the utilization of different specialized machines. Therefore for example the encryption decryption performed by the user device cannot be performed manually because it would take decades or lifetimes and is integral with the processes performed by methods herein. Further such machine only processes are not mere post solution activity because the encryption safeguards the data during electronic transmission and such data is further processed after it is transmitted and decrypted. Similarly the electronic transmissions of each half of the transaction the provider s half and the user s half utilize special purpose equipment telecommunications equipment routers switches etc. that is distinct from a general purpose processor. Also the data transmission is integral with the process performed by the methods herein and is not mere post solution activity because the post transmission processes of the methods herein rely upon the previous transmission and cannot be performed without such electronic transmission. In other words these various machines are integral with the methods herein because the methods cannot be performed without the machines and cannot be performed by humans alone .

Additionally the methods herein solve many highly complex technological problems. For example as mentioned above providers suffer from the technological problem of not being fully capable of effectively safeguarding electronically stored user data on computer storage media and data breaches of seemingly secure systems commonly occur . Methods herein solve this technological problem by avoiding the need for providers to store any personal or financial information of the user as such data is never supplied to the providers . This reduces the amount of electronic storage that a provider must maintain and also reduces the technological security updates that a provider is required to satisfy. By granting such benefits to providers the methods herein reduce the amount and complexity of hardware and software needed to be purchased installed and maintained by providers thereby solving a substantial technological problem that providers experience today.

Similarly with respect to the users the methods herein additionally solve many technological problems related to the security of user information. By limiting the need for the user or the provider to maintain any personal or financial information of the user as all such information can be maintained by secure data storage systems of the intermediate entity hardware storage and software security elements for the user can be substantially reduced. In other words because the user does not maintain any personal or financial information on the user device the technology of the user device can be substantially simplified thereby reducing cost weight size etc. and providing many substantial technological benefits to the user.

As shown in exemplary systems and methods herein include various computerized devices located at various different physical locations . The computerized devices can include portable devices smart phones smart watches wearable computers personal digital assistants PDAs tablets laptops convertibles etc. point of sale devices personal computers desktop computers servers mainframes etc. and are in communication operatively connected to one another by way of a local or wide area wired or wireless network .

The input output device is used for communications to and from the computerized device and comprises a wired device or wireless device of any form whether currently known or developed in the future . The tangible processor controls the various actions of the computerized device. A non transitory tangible computer storage medium device which can be optical magnetic capacitor based etc. and is different from a transitory signal is readable by the tangible processor and stores instructions e.g. applications or apps that the tangible processor executes to allow the computerized device to perform its various functions such as those described herein. Thus as shown in a body housing has one or more functional components that operate on power supplied from an alternating current AC source by the power supply . The power supply can comprise a common power conversion unit power storage element e.g. a battery etc etc.

Thus in a very simplified example users download an app which can be a general use version or a mobile version from an acquiring program bank. At checkout or the conclusion of the transaction in a non purchase transaction the user downloads copies or otherwise enters the total amount of the transaction assuming this is a purchase transaction and the transaction identifier which may be supplied by the provider . The provider and the user enter their PINs activating the transmission of their half of the transaction to the bank the apps are programmed to transmit the transaction to a specific bank site and the bank pairs the two halves of the transaction using the transaction identifier and each party s bank account program identifier to access the current encryption key of each. The bank verifies the unencrypted OTUCs pairs them and then either submits the request for authorization to the appropriate payment gateway in the case of payment transactions or verifies or not the transaction request directly in the case of a non purchase transaction .

In addition the systems and methods herein can utilize a point of sale device or terminal which may include additional security features such as chip readers biometric readers etc. as shown in . As technology advances beyond the fully manual credit card impression machines e.g. zip zap credit card devices that pressure transfer the raised numbers on the front of a credit card onto carbon paper packet copies such point of sale credit card recording devices continue to improve in speed accuracy and the security. For example many point of sale credit card devices may not only use contact magnetic heads to read that the magnetic strip located on the credit card but such devices can also wirelessly communicate with circuitry of the credit cards or wirelessly communicate with other user devices such as smartphones user maintained radio frequency identification RFID devices etc. . Also point of sale devices can include biometric readers retinal scanners fingerprint readers etc. to help insure a match between the identity of the user and the owner of the credit card the term credit card herein generically refers to any payment or authorization card including for example credit cards debit cards prepaid cards preloaded cards direct financial payments such as a direct payment from a bank account etc. access cards etc. . The point of sale terminal illustrated in the drawings is intended to include all such devices whether currently known or developed in the future.

Another feature of systems herein is a consortium device that is a computerized device or system owned and or used by groups of financial institutions financial clearing houses resource controllers verification entities etc. all of which are generically represented in the drawings as issuing banks . As shown in while users or consumers individually contract or subscribe to credit cards issued by different issuing banks the issuing banks and merchants each join or register with the issuing bank consortium which acts as an acquiring bank during various transactions that are conducted with the point of sale terminal . In other words the consortium device is a generic term for the consortium of banks and the consortium device in the drawings represents the separate consortium or organization and associated physical devices and assets that is created and subscribed to by the various independent and separate member issuing banks . Therefore the bank consortium is a cooperative organization that can be a stand alone entity separate from any of the individual issuing banks to which each of the issuing banks becomes a member by subscribing or joining the consortium.

Thus the consortium acts in concert to verify authorize and finalize each transaction of its entire member issuing banks . Additionally the consortium stores a complete copy of each transaction including each party s one time use code. The bank consortium can be used for non payment activities such as access authorization HIPPA compliance etc. performed either by the bank consortium or a non bank authorized licensed entity such as a cloud operator hospital etc.

One feature of the structure shown in is that when the user initiates the one time use code from their device that one time use code is sent directly from the point of sale terminal to the acquiring bank bank consortium device without being handled by an intermediate payment processor or other third party aggregator. This includes not just in person i.e. physically at the point of sale terminal but also transactions remotely transmitted to a provider s site e.g. online or other forms of remote cyber transmissions which may be processed by the provider separately from the point of sale terminal allowing for all known and later developed system applications for accepting the terms of payment .

Therefore the consortium device can have its own dedicated hardware computer servers switches computer networks storage devices etc. and is a system that combines the activity of all of its member financial institutions to allow the consortium device to act both as an acquiring bank and as an issuing bank to immediately approve transactions submitted to the bank consortium by a point of sale terminal using the records of users and providers maintained controlled by the member financial institutions. The records of the member banks can be stored on the consortium server s such that each transaction is efficiently completed by the consortium on behalf of each member bank.

In operation consistent with the previous disclosure presented above the consortium device maintains duplicate sequencers used in producing one time use encryption keys for registered user devices and registered provider devices . Also after the registration process shown in the consortium device securely maintains personal financial information of the user. The consortium device can even prevent the user device from maintaining the personal financial information to avoid theft or loss of such data from the less secure user device . The point of sale terminal can accommodate electronic payment signals e.g. initiated with a tap from the user s smartphone where the tap initiates the signal . This also allows the TSE transaction code to be sent and accepted as an electronic signal. Thus with systems and methods herein users may register their provider loyalty memberships with the consortium device directly or through the issuing banks . As such any transaction with any provider with whom the user is registered may automatically be reflected included on the user s and the provider s transaction receipts allowing the provider to update the user s loyalty account without exposing any user information including the user s name. As can be seen from the foregoing this allows the banks to control the financial side of transactions without exposing user s personal or financial information.

The consortium device causes e.g. through applications or apps a provider device of the registered provider devices to encrypt provider input related to a transaction between the provider device and a user device of the registered user devices . Thus the provider device creates an encrypted one time use provider code using a one time use provider encryption key identifying the provider the transaction and the provider s agreement to the transaction produced in part using a uniquely sequenced number generated by a provider sequencer maintained by the provider device .

The consortium device similarly causes e.g. through applications or apps the user device to encrypt user input related to the transaction to create an encrypted one time use user code using a one time use user encryption key identifying the provider the transaction and the user s agreement to the transaction produced in part using a uniquely sequenced number generated by a user sequencer maintained by the user device . The user input provided by the user can include other user information such as a user or customer loyalty or rewards program identification. This allows the customer loyalty or rewards program identification to be included within the encrypted one time use user code to permit the consortium device to forward or keep track of customer loyalty or reward program points.

The user devices and the provider devices each only maintain a unique individual sequencer and the user devices and the provider devices do not have access to sequencers of other user devices or other provider devices . The provider sequencer and the user sequencer produce different encryption keys for the transaction. The provider sequencer and the user sequencer are synchronized with corresponding ones of the duplicate sequencers maintained by the consortium device . Also the provider sequencer the user sequencer and the duplicate sequencers produce different one time use encryption keys for each different transaction to prevent any one time use encryption key from being used for different transactions. The encrypted one time use provider code and the encrypted one time use user code are devoid of personal financial information of the user.

As shown in the provider device and the user device independently supply the encrypted one time use provider code and the encrypted one time use user code to the point of sale device . As shown in the point of sale device transmits the encrypted one time use provider code and the encrypted one time use user code to the consortium device .

The consortium device decrypts the encrypted one time use provider code and decrypts the encrypted one time use user code using one time use encryption keys independently produced using corresponding ones of the duplicate sequencers maintained by the consortium device to generating an authorization request of unencrypted provider input and unencrypted user input. The consortium device generates an authorization decision in response to the authorization request based upon the consortium device s ability to verify the identity and intent of each party and transmits the authorization decision to the point of sale device as shown in . The point of sale device in turn outputs the authorization decision to the provider device and the user device as shown in .

Thus the paired user and provider one time use codes are decrypted verified and immediately cleared and finalized by the banks consortium with the result approved or declined being transmitted immediately to the provider merchant which provides a more streamlined version of the handling of transactions. This also allows an immediate reconciliation clearing of transactions between the issuing and acquiring consortium member banks simultaneous authorization of each verified payment transaction. This also provides for clearing of other types of financial transactions among and between the consortium member banks such as check clearing without any processing external to the computerized devices maintained by the bank consortium without transmitting any information or requests to intermediate clearing houses or external issuing banks .

In other implementations shown in the consortium device causes the provider device to supply a unique transaction number to the user device . The unique transaction number can be self generated by the provider device or can be supplied to the provider by the consortium device . The provider device supplies a different unique transaction number for each different transaction.

The provider device can supply the unique transaction number to the user device in many different ways. For example the provider can display a computer readable code that is readable by an optical device of the user device can display a human readable code positioned to be readable by the user where the user manually enters the human readable code into the user device can wirelessly transmit a code using a wireless device of the provider device capable of wirelessly communicating with a wireless device of the user device can internally communicate the unique transaction number from a first application operating on the user device to a second application operating on the user device etc.

In this implementation the provider device supplies the one time use provider code and the unique transaction number only to the point of sale device and similarly the user device supplies the one time use user code and the unique transaction number only to the point of sale device . Consistent with the foregoing the point of sale device transmits the encrypted one time use provider code the unique transaction number and the encrypted one time use user code to the consortium device .

The processing of is also shown in flowchart form in . In item these methods establish accounts of registered users through registered user devices accounts of registered providers through registered provider devices and the financial institutions issuing banks register with the consortium device. With these methods the consortium device securely maintains the personal financial information of the user preventing the user device from maintaining such personal financial information. Also with such methods the consortium device maintains duplicate sequencers used in producing one time use encryption keys for the registered user devices and the registered provider devices.

In item the provider inputs various details about the transaction e.g. quantity price amount terms and agreement as to terms of sale access being requested authorization being requested etc. into the application running on the provider device. In item a registered provider device can use its provider application to request a new transaction number for a new transaction between that provider and one of the registered users. Alternatively in item the provider app can self generate a unique transaction number that the intermediate entity would expect by way of the duplicate app to the provider app maintained by the intermediate entity .

Additionally in such methods the consortium device causes e.g. through applications or apps the provider device to supply a unique transaction number to the user device in item . The provider device supplies a different unique transaction number for each different transaction. To execute item the provider device can display a computer readable code on a display of the provider device that is readable by an optical device of the user device the provider device can display a human readable code on the display of the provider device positioned to be readable by the user where the user manually enters the human readable code into the user device the provider device can wirelessly transmit a code using a wireless device of the provider device capable of wirelessly communicating with a wireless device of the user device the provider device can internally communicate the unique transaction number from a first application operating on the user device to a second application operating on the user device etc. In item after receiving the code from the provider in item the user can input a password or personal identification number PIN into the application running on the user device or otherwise activate the transmission of the one time use code from the user s device to the provider s terminal site etc. . However the inputting of a PIN by the user on the provider s device only provides an approximate signature acceptance to the terms while to the contrary the one time use code generated by systems and methods herein is a verifiable signature that actually identifies and binds the parties to each transaction and is therefore processed as person present card verified signature present and verified transaction rather than as a card not present transaction. This allows the systems and methods herein to be used for in person transactions by transmitting the one time use code as a signal to the bank consortium .

Further in item in such methods the consortium device causes the provider device to encrypt provider input related to the transaction to create an encrypted one time use provider code using a one time use provider encryption key produced in part using a uniquely sequenced number generated by a provider sequencer maintained by the provider device.

Similarly in item in these methods the consortium device causes e.g. through applications or apps the user device activated by the user to encrypt user input related to the transaction to create an encrypted one time use user code using a one time use user encryption key produced in part using a uniquely sequenced number generated by a user sequencer maintained by the user device.

The user devices and the provider devices each only maintain a unique individual sequencer and the user devices and the provider devices do not have access to sequencers of other user devices or other provider devices. The provider sequencer and the user sequencer therefore produce different encryption keys for the transaction. The provider sequencer and the user sequencer are synchronized with corresponding ones of the duplicate sequencers maintained by the consortium device. The provider sequencer the user sequencer and the duplicate sequencers produce different one time use encryption keys for each different transaction to prevent any one time use encryption key from being used for different transactions. Further the encrypted one time use provider code and the encrypted one time use user code are devoid of personal financial information of the user.

Further in item in such methods the provider device supplies the encrypted one time use provider code and the unique transaction number and the user device supplies the encrypted one time use user code and the unique transaction number only to the point of sale device. In item the point of sale device transmits the encrypted one time use provider code the unique transaction number and the encrypted one time use user code to the consortium device.

Also as shown in item with such methods the consortium device independently generates the one time use provider encryption key and the one time use user encryption key using corresponding ones of the duplicate sequencers maintained by the consortium device. Then in item the consortium device decrypts the encrypted one time use provider code using the one time use provider encryption key and decrypts the encrypted one time use user code using the user unique encryption key to generate unencrypted provider input and unencrypted user input. Each one time use code contains a sequence that does not need to be encrypted and does not change. This sequence identifies the paired duplicate sequencers maintained by the consortium device.

With the decrypted provider and user information the consortium device can check the user and provider registration records to verify the identities of the provider and user as shown in item . If any registration issues with the user or provider are discovered in item e.g. lapsed registration incorrect additional identification information such as alphanumeric codes special names user provider device hardware identifiers etc. discussed above violation of user provider terms etc. notifications can be sent to the user provider and the transaction can be immediately terminated.

If the identities of the user and provider are found to be proper in item the consortium device combines the unencrypted provider input and unencrypted user input into an authorization request in item . With such methods in item the consortium device generates an authorization decision in response to the authorization request and transmits the authorization decision to the point of sale device in item . Next in these methods the point of sale device outputs the authorization decision to the provider device and the user device in item .

In addition the systems and methods herein can utilize a point of sale device or terminal in combination with a provider institution app operating on the user s device as shown in . The provider institution app is a software application commonly known as a smartphone app that operates or runs on the user s device and causes the user s device to take various actions and perform various processes. The provider institution app is created supplied e.g. downloaded from maintained and owned by a financial institution that often shares its name with the merchant and such a financial institution is referred to in the drawings and in this text sometimes as the app issuing bank . Retailers sometimes contract with banks with respect to their payment card programs. This allows the retailer to provide credit to customers from its bank and issue credit and debit cards from its bank and all such forms of institutions are intended to be illustrated by the app issuing bank in the drawings. As with the other issuing banks described above the app issuing bank registers with the consortium which acts as an acquiring bank during various transactions that are conducted with the point of sale terminal as shown in .

The user downloads the provider institution app to their portable device e.g. smartphone from an intermediary such as an app store or directly from the bank consortium or the app issuing bank . As shown in using the provider institution app the user registers with the merchant and or the app issuing bank by providing various information as described above through the provider institution app .

In operation consistent with the disclosure presented above the consortium device maintains duplicate sequencers used in producing one time use encryption keys for registered user devices and registered provider devices . Also after the registration process shown in the consortium device and app issuing bank securely maintain personal financial information of the user. The consortium device can even prevent the user device and registered provider devices from maintaining the personal financial information to avoid theft or loss of such data from the less secure user device . As discussed above with systems and methods herein users may register their provider loyalty memberships with the consortium device using the provider institution app . As such any transaction with any provider with whom the user is registered may automatically be reflected included on the user s and the provider s transaction receipts allowing the provider to update the user s loyalty account without exposing any user information including the user s name. As can be seen from the foregoing this allows the banks to control the financial side of transactions without exposing user s personal or financial information.

As shown in the merchant can optionally request a transaction number from the consortium device and receive the same back in or as described above the merchant can self generate the transaction number.

As also shown in and as discussed above the merchant or provider device supplies the unique transaction number to the provider institution app operating on the user s device . The provider device supplies a different unique transaction number for each different transaction. For example the provider device can display a computer readable code on a display of the provider device that is readable by an optical device of the user device the provider device can display a human readable code on the display of the provider device positioned to be readable by the user where the user manually enters the human readable code into the provider institution app operating on the user s device the provider device can wirelessly transmit a code using a wireless device of the provider device capable of wirelessly communicating with a wireless device of the user device the provider device can internally communicate the unique transaction number from the provider institution app operating on the user s device to a second application operating on the user device etc.

The consortium device causes e.g. through applications or apps a provider device of the registered provider devices to encrypt provider input related to a transaction between the provider device and a user device of the registered user devices . Thus the provider device creates an encrypted one time use provider code using a one time use provider encryption key identifying the provider the transaction using the transaction number and the provider s agreement to the transaction produced in part using a uniquely sequenced number generated by a provider sequencer maintained by the provider device .

The consortium device similarly causes e.g. through the provider institution app the user device to encrypt user input related to the transaction to create an encrypted one time use user code using a one time use user encryption key identifying the provider the transaction and the user s agreement to the transaction produced in part using a uniquely sequenced number generated by a user sequencer maintained by the user device . The user input provided by the user can include other user information such as a user or customer loyalty or rewards program identification. This allows the customer loyalty or rewards program identification to be included within the encrypted one time use user code to permit the consortium device to forward or keep track of customer loyalty or reward program points.

The user devices and the provider devices each only maintain a unique individual sequencer and the user devices and the provider devices do not have access to sequencers of other user devices or other provider devices . The provider sequencer and the user sequencer produce different encryption keys for the transaction. The provider sequencer and the user sequencer are synchronized with corresponding ones of the duplicate sequencers maintained by the consortium device . Also the provider sequencer the user sequencer and the duplicate sequencers produce different one time use encryption keys for each different transaction to prevent any one time use encryption key from being used for different transactions. The encrypted one time use provider code and the encrypted one time use user code are devoid of personal financial information of the user.

As shown in the provider device and the user device independently supply the encrypted one time use provider code and the encrypted one time use user code to the point of sale device . As shown in the point of sale device transmits the encrypted one time use provider code and the encrypted one time use user code to the consortium device as a verification request.

The consortium device decrypts the encrypted one time use provider code and decrypts the encrypted one time use user code using one time use encryption keys independently produced using corresponding ones of the duplicate sequencers maintained by the consortium device to generating an authorization request of unencrypted provider input and unencrypted user input. The consortium device generates an authorization decision in response to the authorization request based upon the consortium device s ability to verify the identity and intent of each party and transmits the authorization decision to the point of sale device as shown in . The point of sale device in turn outputs the authorization decision to the provider device and the user device as shown in .

Thus the paired user and provider one time use codes are decrypted verified and immediately cleared and finalized by the banks consortium with the result approved or declined being transmitted immediately to the provider merchant which provides a more streamlined version of the handling of transactions. This also allows an immediate reconciliation clearing of transactions between the issuing and acquiring consortium member banks simultaneous authorization of each verified payment transaction. This also provides for clearing of other types of financial transactions among and between the consortium member banks such as check clearing without any processing external to the computerized devices maintained by the bank consortium without transmitting any information or requests to intermediate clearing houses or external issuing banks . This also provides for similar provider apps for non purchase transactions such as verified access authorization. As noted above the systems and methods herein can provide physical or electronic access to different physical or electronic items in addition to approving purchase transactions. Therefore with respect to providing access whether for physical access to a restricted locale room building etc. or electronic access to a website program file etc. the provider institution app also records using for example timestamps when the user device electronically or physically accessed the item and how long they accessed the item to which access was provided by the provider device e.g. by time stamping when the user device started accessing the electronic item or entered the physical item and when they stopped accessing the electronic item or left the physical item . This provides increased security verification and audit capabilities.

As shown in different geographic regions e.g. different countries can each have their own independent bank consortium. Therefore illustrates different bank consortium examples including a Japan JP bank consortium a United Kingdom GB bank consortium a United States US bank consortium and a German DE bank consortium all electronically connected by way of wide area or local area computerized networks and all operating according to an inter consortium agreement between the different local geographic consortiums. Therefore if a user of the systems and methods herein conducts a transaction with a provider located outside the user s domestic network the provider s local geographic network e.g. can clear the transaction through e.g. can inter bank the user s one time use code to the user s local geographic network e.g. for immediate verification or non approval . This in turn supports international filing and a working relationship between the local geographic bank consortium groups shown in .

In view of the foregoing in addition to the previously discussed data an unencrypted consortium identification code is added to each party s one time use transaction code. The consortium identification code can be any convenient designation such as each country s two letter code JP Japan GB United Kingdom US United States of America DE Germany etc. Thus the encrypted one time use provider code and the encrypted one time use user code supplied to the point of sale device in discussed above can include the consortium identification code. This in turn allows the provider s bank or consortium to transmit the user s portion of a transaction from the provider s local geographic consortium to the user s local geographic consortium for verification.

With respect to in one example a customer who is a member of the US consortium may be physically in Germany or conducting a transaction with a provider in Germany and may select a specific credit card for payment using the provider institution app on their smartphone for payment to the German provider who in this example is a member of the German consortium . The German consortium receives the encrypted one time use user code see discussed above and recognizes the user s unencrypted consortium identification code US identifying the US consortium . The transaction is processed by the German consortium transmitting the encrypted one time use user code to the US consortium for verification noting that the provider portion of the transaction has been verified by the German consortium . The US consortium verifies or not the user portion of the transaction and clears the transaction to the German consortium i.e. it either confirms and credits the transaction or rejects it . In this regard the methods and systems herein allow the international network of bank consortiums to work as payment clearing houses for each other where each network retains the responsibility for its members and their clients. This also provides a secure efficient international network for commerce. Simply put the country of origin designation allows the international bank consortiums to rely on each other and extend the reach of the systems and methods herein.

The processing of is also shown in flowchart form in . In item these methods establish accounts of registered users through registered user devices and the provider institution app accounts of registered providers through registered provider devices and the financial institutions issuing banks register with the consortium device. With these methods the consortium device securely maintains the personal financial information of the user preventing the user device from maintaining such personal financial information. Also with such methods the consortium device maintains duplicate sequencers used in producing one time use encryption keys for the registered user devices and the registered provider devices.

In item the provider inputs various details about the transaction e.g. quantity price amount terms and agreement as to terms of sale access being requested authorization being requested etc. into the application running on the provider device. In item as an optional step denoted by the dash line box a registered provider device can use its provider application to request a new transaction number for a new transaction between that provider and one of the registered users. Alternatively in item the provider app can self generate a unique transaction number that the intermediate entity would expect by way of the duplicate app to the provider app maintained by the intermediate entity .

Additionally in such methods the consortium device causes e.g. through applications or apps the provider device to supply a unique transaction number to the provider institution app operating on the user device in item . The provider device supplies a different unique transaction number for each different transaction. To execute item the provider device can display a computer readable code on a display of the provider device that is readable by an optical device of the user device the provider device can display a human readable code on the display of the provider device positioned to be readable by the user where the user manually enters the human readable code into the user device the provider device can wirelessly transmit a code using a wireless device of the provider device capable of wirelessly communicating with a wireless device of the user device the provider device can internally communicate the unique transaction number from the provider institution app operating on the user device to a second application operating on the user device etc. The user device may also be a portable or wired device capable of storing the provider institution app and accessing the provider device from a connected or non wireless link.

In item after receiving the code from the provider in item the user can input a password or personal identification number PIN into the provider institution app running on the user device or otherwise activate the transmission of the one time use code from the user s device to the provider s terminal site etc. . However the inputting of a PIN by the user on the provider s device only provides an approximate signature acceptance to the terms while to the contrary the one time use code generated by systems and methods herein is a verifiable signature that actually identifies and binds the parties to each transaction and is therefore processed as person present card verified signature present and verified transaction rather than as a card not present transaction. This allows the systems and methods herein to be used for in person transactions by transmitting the one time use code as a signal to the bank consortium .

Further in item in such methods the consortium device causes the provider device to encrypt provider input related to the transaction to create an encrypted one time use provider code using a one time use provider encryption key produced in part using a uniquely sequenced number generated by a provider sequencer maintained by the provider device.

Similarly in item in these methods the consortium device causes e.g. through the provider institution app the user device activated by the user to encrypt user input related to the transaction to create an encrypted one time use user code using a one time use user encryption key produced in part using a uniquely sequenced number generated by a user sequencer maintained by the user device.

The user devices and the provider devices each only maintain a unique individual sequencer and the user devices and the provider devices do not have access to sequencers of other user devices or other provider devices. The provider sequencer and the user sequencer therefore produce different encryption keys for the transaction. The provider sequencer and the user sequencer are synchronized with corresponding ones of the duplicate sequencers maintained by the consortium device. The provider sequencer the user sequencer and the duplicate sequencers produce different one time use encryption keys for each different transaction to prevent any one time use encryption key from being used for different transactions. The encrypted one time use provider code and the encrypted one time use user code are devoid of personal financial information of the user.

Further in item in such methods the provider device supplies the encrypted one time use provider code and the unique transaction number and the provider institution app supplies the encrypted one time use user code and the unique transaction number only to the point of sale device. In item the point of sale device transmits the encrypted one time use provider code the unique transaction number and the encrypted one time use user code to the consortium device.

Also as shown in item with such methods the consortium device independently generates the one time use provider encryption key and the one time use user encryption key using corresponding ones of the duplicate sequencers maintained by the consortium device. Then in item the consortium device decrypts the encrypted one time use provider code using the one time use provider encryption key and decrypts the encrypted one time use user code using the user unique encryption key to generate unencrypted provider input and unencrypted user input. Each one time use code contains a sequence that does not need to be encrypted and does not change. This sequence identifies the paired duplicate sequencers maintained by the consortium device.

With the decrypted provider and user information the consortium device can check the user and provider registration records to verify the identities of the provider and user as shown in item . If any registration issues with the user or provider are discovered in item e.g. lapsed registration incorrect additional identification information such as alphanumeric codes special names user provider device hardware identifiers etc. discussed above violation of user provider terms etc. notifications can be sent to the user provider and the transaction can be immediately terminated.

If the identities of the user and provider are found to be proper in item the consortium device combines the unencrypted provider input and unencrypted user input into an authorization request in item . With such methods in item the consortium device generates an authorization decision in response to the authorization request and transmits the authorization decision to the point of sale device in item . Next in these methods the point of sale device outputs the authorization decision to the provider device and the provider institution app operating on the user device in item .

While some exemplary structures are illustrated in the attached drawings those ordinarily skilled in the art would understand that the drawings are simplified schematic illustrations and that the claims presented below encompass many more features that are not illustrated or potentially many less but are commonly utilized with such devices and systems. Therefore Applicant does not intend for the claims presented below to be limited by the attached drawings but instead the attached drawings are merely provided to illustrate a few ways in which the claimed features can be implemented.

Many computerized devices are discussed above. Computerized devices that include chip based central processing units CPU s input output devices including graphic user interfaces GUI memories comparators tangible processors etc. are well known and readily available devices produced by manufacturers such as Dell Computers Round Rock Tex. USA and Apple Computer Co. Cupertino Calif. USA. Such computerized devices commonly include input output devices power supplies tangible processors electronic storage memories wiring etc. the details of which are omitted to allow the reader to focus on the salient aspects of the systems and methods described herein. Further the terms automated or automatically mean that once a process is started by a machine or a user one or more machines perform the process without further input from any user.

It is appreciated that the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be desirably combined into many other different systems or applications. Various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be encompassed by the following claims. Unless specifically defined in a specific claim itself steps or components of the systems and methods herein cannot be implied or imported from any above example as limitations to any particular order number position etc.

