---

title: Systems and methods for displaying notifications received from multiple applications
abstract: Systems and methods are disclosed for displaying notifications received from multiple applications. In some embodiments, an electronic device can monitor notifications that are received from the multiple applications. Responsive to receiving the notifications, the electronic device can control the manner in which the notifications are displayed while the device is operating in a locked or an unlocked state. In some embodiments, the electronic device can allow users to customize how notifications are to be displayed while the device is in the locked and/or unlocked states.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09507608&OS=09507608&RS=09507608
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 09507608
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160125
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 489 415 filed Jun. 5 2012 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 493 470 filed Jun. 5 2011 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The disclosed embodiments relate generally to electronic devices and more particularly to electronic devices displaying notifications received from multiple applications.

Today s portable electronic devices are able to integrate multiple functionalities. These devices are capable of running multiple applications. In particular some of these applications may generate trigger events that can result in the display of a notification.

Because electronic devices can contain many applications the potential for application based notifications can become numerous and unwieldy particularly if a user is required to access each application individually in order to view application specific notifications. Accordingly what is needed is a more efficient and intuitive approach for organizing notifications and providing users with instant access to these notifications.

Systems and methods are disclosed for displaying notifications received from multiple applications. An electronic device can have a touch sensitive input output I O device e.g. a touch screen with a graphical user interface GUI one or more processors memory and one or more modules programs or sets of instructions stored in the memory for performing multiple functions.

In particular the electronic device can include a notification module that can interface with one or more Application Programming Interfaces APIs to generate various types of notifications while the device is in either a locked state or an unlocked state. Furthermore the notification module can provide options for customizing notification settings.

In some embodiments the notification module can monitor notifications that are received from multiple applications. Responsive to receiving the notifications the notification module can control the manner in which the notifications are displayed while the electronic device is operating in a locked or an unlocked state. In some embodiments the electronic device can allow a user to customize how notifications are displayed while the device is in the locked and or the unlocked state.

In some embodiments while the device is operating in a locked state the notification module can display a pull down option which can allow a user to view previously received notifications. In some embodiments the notification module can aggregate the notifications that are received and can provide the aggregated notifications as multiple panes in a notification center. Thus each pane of the notification center can be associated with a different application. In addition the notification module can display banners that correspond to one or more notifications that are received from different applications.

The one or more APIs that interface with the notification module can be in an environment with calling program code interacting with another program code being called through the one or more interfaces. Various function calls messages or other types of invocations which further may include various kinds of parameters can be transferred via the APIs between the calling program and the code being called. In addition an API may provide the calling program code the ability to use data types or classes defined in the API and implemented in the called program code.

At least certain embodiments include an environment with a calling software component interacting with a called software component through an API. A method for operating through an API in this environment includes transferring one or more function calls messages and or other types of invocations or parameters via the API.

Touch I O device may include a touch sensitive panel which is wholly or partially transparent semitransparent non transparent opaque or any combination thereof. Touch I O device may be embodied as a touch screen touch pad a touch screen functioning as a touch pad e.g. a touch screen replacing the touchpad of a laptop a touch screen or touchpad combined or incorporated with any other input device e.g. a touch screen or touchpad disposed on a keyboard or any multi dimensional object having a touch sensitive surface for receiving touch input.

In one example touch I O device embodied as a touch screen may include a transparent and or semitransparent touch sensitive panel partially or wholly positioned over at least a portion of a display. According to this embodiment touch I O device functions to display graphical data transmitted from computing system and or another source and also functions to receive user input. In other embodiments touch I O device may be embodied as an integrated touch screen where touch sensitive components devices are integral with display components devices. In still other embodiments a touch screen may be used as a supplemental or additional display screen for displaying supplemental or the same graphical data as a primary display and to receive touch input.

Touch I O device may be configured to detect the location of one or more touches or near touches on device based on capacitive resistive optical acoustic inductive mechanical chemical measurements or any phenomena that can be measured with respect to the occurrences of the one or more touches or near touches in proximity to device . Software hardware firmware or any combination thereof may be used to process the measurements of the detected touches to identify and track one or more gestures. A gesture may correspond to stationary or non stationary single or multiple touches or near touches on touch I O device . A gesture may be performed by moving one or more fingers or other objects in a particular manner on touch I O device such as tapping pressing rocking scrubbing twisting changing orientation pressing with varying pressure and the like at essentially the same time contiguously or consecutively. A gesture may be characterized by but is not limited to a pinching sliding swiping rotating flexing dragging or tapping motion between or with any other finger or fingers. A single gesture may be performed with one or more hands by one or more users or any combination thereof.

Computing system may drive a display with graphical data to display a graphical user interface GUI . The GUI may be configured to receive touch input via touch I O device . Embodied as a touch screen touch I O device may display the GUI. Alternatively the GUI may be displayed on a display separate from touch I O device . The GUI may include graphical elements displayed at particular locations within the interface. Graphical elements may include but are not limited to a variety of displayed virtual input devices including virtual scroll wheels a virtual keyboard virtual knobs virtual buttons any virtual UI and the like. A user may perform gestures at one or more particular locations on touch I O device that may be associated with the graphical elements of the GUI. In other embodiments the user may perform gestures at one or more locations that are independent of the locations of graphical elements of the GUI. Gestures performed on touch I O device may directly or indirectly manipulate control modify move actuate initiate or generally affect graphical elements such as cursors icons media files lists text all or portions of images or the like within the GUI. For instance in the case of a touch screen a user may directly interact with a graphical element by performing a gesture over the graphical element on the touch screen. Alternatively a touch pad generally provides indirect interaction. Gestures may also affect non displayed GUI elements e.g. causing user interfaces to appear or may affect other actions within computing system e.g. affect a state or mode of a GUI application or operating system . Gestures may or may not be performed on touch I O device in conjunction with a displayed cursor. For instance in the case in which gestures are performed on a touchpad a cursor or pointer may be displayed on a display screen or touch screen and the cursor may be controlled via touch input on the touchpad to interact with graphical objects on the display screen. In other embodiments in which gestures are performed directly on a touch screen a user may interact directly with objects on the touch screen with or without a cursor or pointer being displayed on the touch screen.

Feedback may be provided to the user via communication channel in response to or based on the touch or near touches on touch I O device . Feedback may be transmitted optically mechanically electrically olfactory acoustically or the like or any combination thereof and in a variable or non variable manner.

Attention is now directed towards embodiments of a system architecture that may be embodied within any portable or non portable device including but not limited to a communication device e.g. mobile phone smart phone a multi media device e.g. MP3 player TV radio a portable or handheld computer e.g. tablet netbook laptop a desktop computer an All In One desktop a peripheral device or any other system or device adaptable to the inclusion of system architecture including combinations of two or more of these types of devices. is a block diagram of one embodiment of system that can include one or more computer readable mediums processing system input Output I O subsystem radio frequency RF circuitry and audio circuitry . These components may be coupled by one or more communication buses or signal lines . System can be the same as or similar to electronic device .

It should be apparent that the architecture shown in is only one example architecture of system and that system could have more or fewer components than shown or a different configuration of components. The various components shown in can be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof including one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits.

RF circuitry is used to send and receive information over a wireless link or network to one or more other devices and includes well known circuitry for performing this function. RF circuitry and audio circuitry can be coupled to processing system via peripherals interface . Interface can include various known components for establishing and maintaining communication between peripherals and processing system . Audio circuitry can be coupled to audio speaker and microphone and includes known circuitry for processing voice signals received from interface to enable a user to communicate in real time with other users. In some embodiments audio circuitry includes a headphone jack not shown .

Peripherals interface can couple the input and output peripherals of the system to processor and computer readable medium . One or more processors can communicate with one or more computer readable mediums via controller . Computer readable medium can be any device or medium that can store code and or data for use by one or more processors . Medium can include a memory hierarchy including but not limited to cache main memory and secondary memory. The memory hierarchy can be implemented using any combination of RAM e.g. SRAM DRAM DDRAM ROM FLASH magnetic and or optical storage devices such as disk drives magnetic tape CDs compact disks and DVDs digital video discs . Medium may also include a transmission medium for carrying information bearing signals indicative of computer instructions or data with or without a carrier wave upon which the signals are modulated . For example the transmission medium may include a communications network including but not limited to the Internet also referred to as the World Wide Web intranet s Local Area Networks LANs Wide Local Area Networks WLANs Storage Area Networks SANs Metropolitan Area Networks MAN and the like.

One or more processors can run various software components stored in medium to perform various functions for system . In some embodiments the software components include operating system communication module or set of instructions touch processing module or set of instructions graphics module or set of instructions one or more applications or set of instructions and notification module . Each of these modules and above noted applications correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above and the methods described in this application e.g. the computer implemented methods and other information processing methods described herein . These modules e.g. sets of instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules and thus various subsets of these modules may be combined or otherwise rearranged in various embodiments. In some embodiments medium may store a subset of the modules and data structures identified above. Furthermore medium may store additional modules and data structures not described above.

Operating system can include various procedures sets of instructions software components and or drivers for controlling and managing general system tasks e.g. memory management storage device control power management etc. and facilitates communication between various hardware and software components.

Communication module facilitates communication with other devices over one or more external ports or via RF circuitry and includes various software components for handling data received from RF circuitry and or external port .

Graphics module can include various known software components for rendering animating and displaying graphical objects on a display surface. In embodiments in which touch I O device is a touch sensitive display e.g. touch screen graphics module includes components for rendering displaying and animating objects on the touch sensitive display.

One or more applications can include any applications installed on system including without limitation a browser address book contact list email instant messaging word processing keyboard emulation widgets JAVA enabled applications encryption digital rights management voice recognition voice replication location determination capability such as that provided by the global positioning system GPS a music player etc.

Touch processing module includes various software components for performing various tasks associated with touch I O device including but not limited to receiving and processing touch input received from I O device via touch I O device controller . For example touch processing module can also include software components for performing tasks associated with other I O devices . That is touch processing module can receive and process inputs received from I O device via other I O controller .

System may further include notification module for performing the method functions as described herein in connection with . Notification module may at least function to monitor notifications that are received from multiple applications e.g. multiple applications on system or data providers that are transmitting data to system . For example notification module can receive notifications from both non third party applications and third party applications. In addition notification module can receive push based notifications trigger based notifications and or other types of personal notifications.

Responsive to receiving the notifications notification module can control the manner in which the notifications are displayed while system is operating in a locked state or an unlocked state. For example while system is operating in a locked state notification module can display notifications in a banner and control the manner in which these notifications are displayed. As another example notification module can aggregate notifications that are received and can provide the aggregated notifications as multiple panes in a notification center. Thus each pane can be associated with a different application. In some embodiments notification module can allow a user to customize how notifications are displayed on system .

In a locked state system may limit user access to certain features. For example in a locked state the user may not be able to activate various device features such as placing a telephone call or entering en email. In other words the locked state is meant to prevent inadvertent access to system . When system is an unlocked state the user has full access to all features of the system.

Moreover notification module can provide a specific type of data formatting to data providers which can then allow the data providers to direct particular notifications to various users. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that any suitable type of formatting may also be used. For example in order to display a notification on system notification module can require a data provider to specify the title e.g. name of user the subtitle e.g. the subtitle of an incoming message or alert and the body e.g. body of the message .

Notification module may also interface with touch processing module in order to receive user inputs. In addition notification module can interface with graphics module in order to display various graphical objects on a display. Notification module may be embodied as hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. Although notification module is shown to reside within medium all or portions of module may be embodied within other components within system or may be wholly embodied as a separate component within system .

I O subsystem is coupled to touch I O device and one or more other I O devices for controlling or performing various functions. Touch I O device communicates with processing system via touch I O device controller which includes various components for processing user touch input e.g. scanning hardware . One or more other input controllers receives sends electrical signals from to other I O devices . Other I O devices may include physical buttons dials slider switches sticks keyboards touch pads additional display screens or any combination thereof.

If embodied as a touch screen touch I O device displays visual output to the user in a GUI. The visual output may include text graphics video and any combination thereof. Some or all of the visual output may correspond to user interface objects. Touch I O device forms a touch sensitive surface that accepts touch input from the user. Touch I O device and touch screen controller along with any associated modules and or sets of instructions in medium detects and tracks touches or near touches and any movement or release of the touch on touch I O device and converts the detected touch input into interaction with graphical objects such as one or more user interface objects. In the case in which device is embodied as a touch screen the user can directly interact with graphical objects that are displayed on the touch screen. Alternatively in the case in which device is embodied as a touch device other than a touch screen e.g. a touch pad the user may indirectly interact with graphical objects that are displayed on a separate display screen embodied as I O device .

Touch I O device may be analogous to the multi touch sensitive surface described in the following U.S. Pat. No. 6 323 846 Westerman et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 570 557 Westerman et al. and or U.S. Pat. No. 6 677 932 Westerman and or U.S. Patent Publication 2002 0015024A1 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Embodiments in which touch I O device is a touch screen the touch screen may use LCD liquid crystal display technology LPD light emitting polymer display technology OLED organic LED or OEL organic electro luminescence although other display technologies may be used in other embodiments.

Feedback may be provided by touch I O device based on the user s touch input as well as a state or states of what is being displayed and or of the computing system. Feedback may be transmitted optically e.g. light signal or displayed image mechanically e.g. haptic feedback touch feedback force feedback or the like electrically e.g. electrical stimulation olfactory acoustically e.g. beep or the like or the like or any combination thereof and in a variable or non variable manner.

System can also include power system for powering the various hardware components and may include a power management system one or more power sources a recharging system a power failure detection circuit a power converter or inverter a power status indicator and any other components typically associated with the generation management and distribution of power in portable devices.

In some embodiments peripherals interface one or more processors and memory controller may be implemented on a single chip such as processing system . In some other embodiments they may be implemented on separate chips.

Notification module can interface with one or more Application Programming Interfaces APIs to provide a notification center that can generate various types of notifications when system is in either a locked state or an unlocked state. Furthermore notification module can provide multiple settings for customizing the notification center.

An API is an interface implemented by a program code component or hardware component hereinafter API implementing component that allows a different program code component or hardware component hereinafter API calling component to access and use one or more functions methods procedures data structures classes and or other services provided by the API implementing component. An API can define one or more parameters that are passed between the API calling component and the API implementing component.

An API allows a developer of an API calling component which may be a third party developer to leverage specified features provided by an API implementing component. There may be one API calling component or there may be more than one such component. An API can be a source code interface that a computer system or program library provides in order to support requests for services from an application. An operating system OS can have multiple APIs to allow applications running on the OS to call one or more of those APIs and a service such as a program library can have multiple APIs to allow an application that uses the service to call one or more of those APIs. An API can be specified in terms of a programming language that can be interpreted or compiled when an application is built.

In some embodiments the API implementing component may provide more than one API each providing a different view of or with different aspects that access different aspects of the functionality implemented by the API implementing component. For example one API of an API implementing component can provide a first set of functions and can be exposed to third party developers and another API of the API implementing component can be hidden not exposed and provide a subset of the first set of functions and also provide another set of functions such as testing or debugging functions which are not in the first set of functions. In other embodiments the API implementing component may itself call one or more other components via an underlying API and thus be both an API calling component and an API implementing component.

An API defines the language and parameters that API calling components use when accessing and using specified features of the API implementing component. For example an API calling component accesses the specified features of the API implementing component through one or more API calls or invocations embodied for example by function or method calls exposed by the API and passes data and control information using parameters via the API calls or invocations. The API implementing component may return a value through the API in response to an API call from an API calling component. While the API defines the syntax and result of an API call e.g. how to invoke the API call and what the API call does the API may not reveal how the API call accomplishes the function specified by the API call. Various API calls are transferred via the one or more application programming interfaces between the calling API calling component and an API implementing component. Transferring the API calls may include issuing initiating invoking calling receiving returning or responding to the function calls or messages in other words transferring can describe actions by either of the API calling component or the API implementing component. The function calls or other invocations of the API may send or receive one or more parameters through a parameter list or other structure. A parameter can be a constant key data structure object object class variable data type pointer array list or a pointer to a function or method or another way to reference a data or other item to be passed via the API.

Furthermore data types or classes may be provided by the API and implemented by the API implementing component. Thus the API calling component may declare variables use pointers to use or instantiate constant values of such types or classes by using definitions provided in the API.

Generally an API can be used to access a service or data provided by the API implementing component or to initiate performance of an operation or computation provided by the API implementing component. By way of example the API implementing component and the API calling component may each be any one of an operating system a library a device driver an API an application program or other module it should be understood that the API implementing component and the API calling component may be the same or different type of module from each other . API implementing components may in some cases be embodied at least in part in firmware microcode or other hardware logic. In some embodiments an API may allow a client program to use the services provided by a Software Development Kit SDK library. In other embodiments an application or other client program may use an API provided by an Application Framework. In these embodiments the application or client program may incorporate calls to functions or methods provided by the SDK and provided by the API or use data types or objects defined in the SDK and provided by the API. An Application Framework may in these embodiments provide a main event loop for a program that responds to various events defined by the Framework. The API allows the application to specify the events and the responses to the events using the Application Framework. In some implementations an API call can report to an application the capabilities or state of a hardware device including those related to aspects such as input capabilities and state output capabilities and state processing capability power state storage capacity and state communications capability etc. and the API may be implemented in part by firmware microcode or other low level logic that executes in part on the hardware component.

The API calling component may be a local component e.g. on the same data processing system as the API implementing component or a remote component e.g. on a different data processing system from the API implementing component that communicates with the API implementing component through the API over a network. It should be understood that an API implementing component may also act as an API calling component e.g. it may make API calls to an API exposed by a different API implementing component and an API calling component may also act as an API implementing component by implementing an API that is exposed to a different API calling component.

The API may allow multiple API calling components written in different programming languages to communicate with the API implementing component thus the API may include features for translating calls and returns between the API implementing component and the API calling component however the API may be implemented in terms of a specific programming language. An API calling component can in one embedment call APIs from different providers such as a set of APIs from an OS provider and another set of APIs from a plug in provider and another set of APIs from another provider e.g. the provider of a software library or creator of the another set of APIs.

It will be appreciated that API implementing component may include additional functions methods classes data structures and or other features that are not specified through API and are not available to API calling component . It should be understood that API calling component may be on the same system as API implementing component or may be located remotely and accesses API implementing component using API over a network. While illustrates a single API calling component interacting with API it should be understood that other API calling components which may be written in different languages or the same language than API calling component may use API .

API implementing component API and API calling component may be stored in a machine readable medium which includes any mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer or other data processing system . For example a machine readable medium includes magnetic disks optical disks random access memory read only memory flash memory devices etc.

In Software Stack an exemplary embodiment applications can make calls to Services A or B using several Service APIs and to Operating System OS using several OS APIs. Services A and B can make calls to OS using several OS APIs.

Note that the Service 2 has two APIs one of which Service 2 API 1 receives calls from and returns values to Application 1 and the other Service 2 API 2 receives calls from and returns values to Application 2. Service 1 which can be for example a software library makes calls to and receives returned values from OS API 1 and Service 2 which can be for example a software library makes calls to and receives returned values from both OS API 1 and OS API 2. Application 2 makes calls to and receives returned values from OS API 2.

As discussed above a notification module of an electronic device e.g. notification module of can control the manner in which notifications are received from applications and then provided to a user. For example the notification module can aggregate notifications that are received from different applications and can provide the aggregated notifications as a series of panes or listings in a notification center. Accordingly by accessing the notification center the user can view a listing of recently received notifications. In some cases the notification center may only be accessible while the electronic device is operating in an unlocked state.

Any suitable approach may be used to invoke the notification center. For example a user may invoke the notification center by pressing a button on an electronic device. As another example when an electronic device e.g. electronic device of or system of is a device where operation of a predefined set of functions on the device is performed through a touch screen and or a touchpad e.g. touch I O device a user can invoke the notification center by making a contact or by touching graphics on a touch screen.

For instance referring now to display screen is shown of a home screen of an electronic device. Display screen can be the same as or can interface with touch I O device of . Display screen can include multiple selectable icons .

The notification module may be configured to accept multiple gestures for invoking the notification center. For example a user can perform a gross swipe gesture by quickly flicking one or more fingers in a downward motion from the top of screen . As another example the user can slowly drag one or more fingers downwards from the top of screen .

The notification module can detect the swipe or drag by the user in a particular region of screen e.g. a twenty pixel region at the top of screen . In particular once the notification module detects that there is movement in multiple pixels in the twenty pixel region the notification module can begin to display the notification center.

In some embodiments the notification module can display the notification center in the same manner regardless of the way in which the user invokes the notification center. In other embodiments the notification module can respond differently depending on the gestures made by user. For example if the user performed a gross swipe gesture the notification module can immediately pull down the notification center to the bottom of screen . If the user instead slowly drags one or more fingers downwards the notification module may pull down the notification center on screen in real time.

In some cases a visual indication may be displayed on the top of display screen to indicate the presence of a notification center. In other embodiments and as shown in display screen there may be no visual indication of the presence of a notification center. As such the user can avoid being distracted while using the electronic device and valuable space on the screen can be conserved.

Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that instead of the top of display screen the notification center can be accessed from any suitable portion of display screen e.g. right left or bottom of display screen . In addition the notification module may allow a user to specify which portion of display screen to use for invoking the notification center.

Persons skilled in the art will also appreciate that although shows a home screen the notification center can be invoked at any suitable time. In particular the notification center may also be invoked while the device is displaying a particular application.

Turning now to display screens are shown of a notification center on an electronic device. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that although notification center is displayed in while the electronic device is operating in a portrait mode the notification center can also be displayed while the electronic device is operating in a landscape mode.

Turning first to responsive to a user dragging one or more fingers downwards from the top of display screen a notification module can pull down notification center towards the bottom of display screen . Notification center can include tab at a bottom portion of notification center .

In some cases in order to remove notification center from display screen the user may need to drag notification center up and off of display screen . Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that any other suitable approach may be used to remove notification center from display screen e.g. by pressing a home or an on off button .

Turning next to display screen shows notification center being pulled all the way to the bottom of screen . Notification center can include one or more panes where each pane can include a widget representing a different application on the electronic device. For example notification center can include weather pane stock pane social network pane and mail pane .

Notification center can be scrollable such that a user can contact and drag notification center up and down in order to view fewer or additional notifications. In some embodiments only certain portions of notification center can be made scrollable. As a result one or more panes may remain fixed e.g. weather pane and stock pane whereas other panes may be scrollable.

Weather pane can display the weather for the current location of the electronic device. Alternatively weather pane can display the weather for any default location that a user has specified. The user may touch weather pane to open the weather application on the device. In addition the user may swipe weather pane left or right in order to view weather for other cities.

Stock pane can include a scrollable stock ticker that scrolls for example from right to left independent of any user interaction. The user may be able to drag stock pane left or right in order to view other hidden or partially displayed stocks. In some cases the user may select any one of the individual stock tickers by touching the ticker e.g. one of stock tickers . Responsive to the user s selection the notification module can open a stock widget. The stock widget can be contextually based on the selected stock ticker e.g. the stock widget can display detailed stock information corresponding to the selected corporation .

A user may select e.g. touch any pane in notification center to access the application associated with the pane. For example responsive to the user selecting social network pane the notification module can provide the social network application to the user.

Each of panes can be associated with an option for allowing a user to manually clear out notifications from the pane. For example button can allow a user to clear notifications out of notification center for pane . In particular responsive to a user selecting button the notification module can display a CLEAR button e.g. button can roll over expand and or transition into a CLEAR button . If the user then selects the CLEAR button the user can manually remove one or more notifications from notification center .

In some cases button can allow a user to clear out all of the notifications in a particular pane or application . As a result the corresponding pane can be removed from notification center . However once a new notification is received for that application a pane corresponding to the application can again be displayed in notification center . Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that although notifications have been cleared from notifications center these notifications may still be accessible from the applications that generated the notifications. Thus if the user desires to view notifications that have been cleared from notifications center he may view those notifications by accessing the corresponding applications.

Some panes such as panes and can have an associated listing of one or more notifications. For example social network pane has listing showing one notification and email pane shows listing showing two email notifications. Any suitable number of notifications can listed as part of the associated listing. Each displayed notification can be selected and upon selection that notification is opened up in the application corresponding to its associated pane. For example if the user selects the first email notification in listing that email is opened for viewing in the mail application.

Panes that have an associated listing may be vertically scrollable e.g. a user can scroll from one pane to the next to view the listings associated with each . Such panes are in contrast with panes and which are horizontally scrollable. A user can scroll from listing associated pane to listing associated pane while panes such as panes and remain in place. Thus at any given moment the user can scroll horizontally in panes and or scroll vertically through listing associated panes.

Referring now to display screen shows notification center which can include calendar pane . Calendar pane can display a listing of notifications e.g. upcoming events in a user s calendar for a pre determined time period e.g. for the upcoming 24 hours . In some cases calendar pane can organize the upcoming events in chronological order. For example the most recently upcoming event can be displayed at the top of the listing of notifications followed by the next upcoming event and so forth. Alternatively the most recently upcoming event can be displayed at the bottom of the listing of notifications.

Calendar pane can be adjusted in real time while an event is in progress. For example as shown in notification can include text which indicates that the event Yoga started 40 minutes ago. The notification module can continuously update text while the event is ongoing.

In some embodiments a user can specify a pre determined number of notifications to be displayed for each application. Consequently if the number of notifications that can be displayed exceeds the pre determined number of notifications the notification module can automatically clear out notifications from calendar pane . Notification settings for specifying a pre determined number of notifications will be described in more detail in connection with .

As shown in the pre determined number of notifications may be set to five. Thus upon receipt of a new notification the notification module can automatically remove a notification that is currently being displayed in calendar pane . For example turning now to upon receipt of new notification from a calendar application the notification module can add new notification to the top of calendar pane . However because the number of notifications that can be displayed exceeds the pre determined number of notifications the notification module can remove notification from calendar pane . In some cases notification can be associated with an event that has the latest start time in comparison to the other events displayed in calendar pane . Eventually once another notification has been cleared out of calendar pane e.g. notification has completed or has been dismissed notification can be added back to calendar pane .

Once a calendar event has lapsed one or more notifications corresponding to the event can be automatically removed from calendar pane . For example if the event Yoga lasts for an hour notification corresponding to Yoga can be cleared out of calendar pane once the event has completed. For instance as shown in the notification module can automatically remove notification from notification center once the Yoga event has lapsed. In addition to removing notification the notification module can add new notification to calendar pane .

Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the panes included in are merely illustrative. Thus any suitable panes that are associated with one or more applications on the device may be included in notification center . In some cases notification center may include those notifications that are displayed while a device is operating in a locked state. These types of notifications will be described in more detail in connection with .

Referring now to several illustrative display screens showing display of a notification center while a user is actively participating in a third party application such as a game. In display screen shows an actively running third party application such as a game. While participating in the active third party application the user may access a notifications center in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The user may access the notifications center by first swiping a finger down from the top of the screen to cause tab to be displayed in screen of . When tab is displayed the user may then place a finger on tab and drag it down to reveal notification center as partially shown in screen of . If the user drags tab all the way down to the bottom of screen notification center will be fully shown.

In some embodiments while an electronic device is operating in an unlocked state the notification module can display one or more banners that can correspond to notifications received from different applications. The notification module can display a banner by for example rotating the banner on to a display screen.

If the user has not selected the banner after a pre determined period of time has lapsed e.g. 5 or 6 seconds the notification module can remove the banner from the display screen. For instance the banner can be rotated out of the display screen. Alternatively the user can push the banner away by swiping the banner or pushing the banner back.

In some embodiments if two or more banners are received by the notification module at approximately the same time the banners can be rotated into the display screen around the same time. That is there may be multiple banners concurrently rotating into the display screen. Alternatively to minimize the distractions to a user the notification module can stagger the displaying of the banners such that only one banner is provided at any given time.

Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that any suitable visual approaches can be used for displaying banners. For example banners can scroll across flip up or drop down or flutter into a display screen. Moreover banners can be removed from the display screen in a similar function. The notification module may allow the user to specify the manner in which a banner can be displayed and or removed.

In some cases if a user ignores or removes a banner without accessing the banner the notification module can add the notification associated with the banner to a notification center e.g. notification center of . As a result when the user later selects to view the notification center the notification center can provide the user with an accumulation of all of the notifications that have not yet been accessed by the user.

Turning now to display screens are shown of different types of banners that can be displayed on an electronic device. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that banners can be displayed at any suitable time while the device is operating in an unlocked state e.g. while the device is displaying the home screen or displaying a particular application . For example banners can be displayed while a user is playing a video game accessing a website modifying system settings watching a movie and the like. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that although banners are displayed in while the electronic device is operating in a portrait mode banners can also be displayed while the electronic device is operating in a landscape mode. Persons skilled in the art will also appreciate that banners can be displayed in any suitable portion of a display screen e.g. right left top or bottom . In addition the notification module may allow a user to specify which portion of a display screen a banner may appear.

Referring first to display screen is shown that can include banner . Banner can represent a notification that was recently received e.g. a text message that was received from a user s contact . As shown in banner can be displayed while a user is playing a video game.

Banner can include icon text and media . Icon can indicate the type of application that generated the notification. Text can include contact information and or one or more portions of the text message that was received. In some cases text may be a truncated version of the full text of the notification e.g. text may include a portion of the body of a text or email . Media can be an embedded media that is associated with the text message e.g. a photo of the contact or a media file that was attached to the text message .

In some embodiments the notification module can detect when a user has selected banner e.g. by touching banner . Responsive to the user s selection the notification module can present the associated notification in the application that generated the notification. For example in response to the user selecting banner the notification module can display the particular text message corresponding to banner in the text message application.

In some embodiments a user may drag banner down to view other notifications that are also associated with the application. Alternatively in response to the user dragging down banner the notification module can display the notification center. For example the notification module can display the portion of the notification center that includes the application panel associated with banner . As another example the notification module can display the portion of the notification center centered about the text message itself.

Turning now to display screen is shown that can include banner . Banner can include media which can be a video that was attached to the notification. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that media can display any suitable media such as for example an image a video a sound file a map an electronic business card etc.

In addition banner can include text which can indicate that the notification is associated with multiple images and videos but not with any text. In particular text can indicate that there are two more attachments in addition to media . Thus text may change based on the number of attachments that are not displayed in banner .

Turning now to display screen is shown that includes banner . Banner can be a coalesced banner. That is banner can include information regarding multiple notifications that have been queued for a particular application. For example as shown in banner indicates that there are 7 new mail notifications for the mail application.

The notification module can also generate coalesced banners using any other approach. For example the notification module can detect if two or more notifications are associated with at least one common parameter e.g. a particular subject matter . In response to detecting that the two or more notifications are associated with the at least one common parameter the notification module can append the two or more notifications into a single message in a coalesced banner. As another example the notification module can condense e.g. summarize the two or more notifications into a single message in a coalesced banner.

In some cases the notification module can simultaneously display multiple coalesced banners e.g. a grouping of banners where each banner may display a single message. The banners can indicate that there are new notifications queued for multiple applications.

A notification module can also provide banners based on the occurrence of one or more trigger events e.g. one or more time based or location based trigger events . For example when the notification module receives a notification that is associated with a time based trigger event e.g. a reminder to perform a task at a particular time the notification module can display a banner associated with the event at the start of the event or at a pre defined time before the start of the event.

As another example responsive to receiving a notification that is associated with a location based trigger event e.g. a reminder to buy milk at the grocery store the notification module can display a banner associated with the event when the electronic device is detected in the location of a grocery store. In some embodiments these alarm banners can include a SNOOZE button which can allow the user to stop the alarm for a pre determined period of time.

Banners that are displayed on an electronic device can be unobtrusive. That is banners may not interfere with a user s access to overlapping controls on a display screen. For example referring now to display screen is shown that can include banner . Banner may be overlaid over NOTIFICATIONS button . Because banner is an unobtrusive banner a user can still press NOTIFICATIONS button while banner is positioned on top of button . In some embodiments one or more visual indicators can also be displayed which can indicate to the user that NOTIFICATIONS button continues to be selectable despite the overlay of banner .

In some embodiments the notification module can control the manner in which notifications are displayed while an electronic device is operating in a locked state e.g. when the electronic device is not being used . In particular when the device is operating in a locked state one or more notifications can be received from different applications. In particular the electronic device may receive one or more push events e.g. phone calls voicemails e mails or a third party push event or device alerts e.g. reminders or alarms .

Responsive to receiving a notification the electronic device can wake up e.g. a processor can wake up the graphics module and the notification module can display the received notification on the display screen. In some cases the notification can be displayed as a large format notification. Turning now to display screens are shown of different types of notifications that can be displayed while an electronic device is operating in a locked state.

Turning first to display screen is shown that can include notification . Notification may be displayed after the electronic device receives a notification from a third party application while operating in the locked state. In particular notification can include icon which can indicate the application that generated notification . In addition notification can include text which can provide associated text or portions of text received from the application.

In response to viewing notification a user may select to go directly to the message associated with notification . For example the user can access notification by tapping and holding notification . Responsive to the user s actions the notification module can display e.g. by animating notification a slider on the display screen e.g. by flipping notification to a backside view . For example referring now to display screen can include slider which can be embedded as a component on a back side of notification . A user may activate slider by dragging slider button in a particular direction e.g. to the right .

Once the notification module detects that slider has been activated the notification module can directly unlock the electronic device. After unlocking the device the notification module can present to the user the particular notification in the application that generated the notification. In some cases even if the electronic device has received multiple notifications from a particular application the notification module can bypass other notifications and present the particular notification that the user has specifically requested.

Referring now to display screen is shown which can include notification . Notification may be displayed in response to an image text message that is received by the electronic device. In particular notification can include embedded image . In addition notification can include text which can provide the identity of the person who sent the text message. Furthermore notification can include text which can be text accompanying the image. As shown in image can be prominently displayed in notification e.g. image can be enlarged relative to texts and .

Similar to if the user selects to access notification e.g. by tapping and holding notification the notification module can display a slider. If the user then activates the slider by dragging the slider the notification module can unlock the device and provide image directly to the user e.g. display image in an image view of a chat application .

Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the notification module can display any suitable type s of media in a notification. For example a notification can include one or more sound s electronic business card s video s and map URL s e.g. the notification module can display a map of the location of the URL . In addition similar to coalesced banners the notification module can display information associated with multiple notifications that have been queued for a particular application in a single notification.

Moreover notifications can be displayed in response to one or more trigger events e.g. time based or location based trigger events . For example responsive to receiving a notification that is associated with a location based trigger event the notification module can display a notification associated with the event once the electronic device is detected at the location of the trigger event.

As another example when the notification module receives a notification that is associated with a time based trigger event the notification module can display a notification associated with the event at the start of the event or at a pre defined time before the start of the event. For example turning now to display screen is shown with notification . Notification can include text which can indicate that notification is displayed in response to a time based trigger event e.g. an alarm . In addition text can provide a description of the alarm.

Notification can further include SNOOZE button . In response to the user selecting SNOOZE button the notification module can stop the alarm for a pre determined period of time. As a result of this function the user is able to control an alarm without having to unlock the electronic device.

Display screens and can include pull down option which can be positioned above a notification that is displayed. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that although pull down option is shown in as being above a notification pull down option can be positioned in any suitable location in a display screen e.g. left right or bottom of the display screen . In addition if the electronic device is in a sleep mode a user may be able to view pull down option by pressing a button e.g. an on off and or home button on the electronic device.

Pull down option can allow a user to view previously received notifications e.g. all of the notifications received while the electronic device was operating in the locked state . A user can select pull down option by dragging option in a downward motion on the display screen.

Referring now to display screen shows list of notifications which can be a list of previously received notifications. In particular when each notification of list of notifications was first received the notification may have been displayed as a large format notification e.g. as shown in . However because the user did not respond to the notification the notification was then added to list of notifications as an individual element. In some embodiments the first displayed instance of a notification in locked mode can be larger than when the same notification is shown in list of notifications . For instance notifications and can be larger than elements and respectively. That is elements and can be displayed in a small format.

The individual elements of list of notifications can be stacked on top of each other. For example the notification module can display multiple text messages received by the electronic device as individual elements in list of notifications .

In some embodiments list of notifications can be arranged based on a time that each notification was received e.g. based on a chronological order . That is the most recently received notification can be appended to the top of list of notifications . Alternatively the most recently received notification can be appended to the bottom of list of notifications . As shown in for example list of notifications is arranged in a chronological order with the most recent notification at the top of list .

In other embodiments list of notifications can be arranged based on a user selected parameter. For example a user can specify which application s notifications should appear first second third and so forth. Based on the user selected parameter the notification module can sort the received notifications. For example notifications corresponding to each application can be first grouped together and the applications can then be arranged in a pre determined order. For instance notifications corresponding to voicemails can be listed first notifications corresponding to e mails can be listed second and notifications corresponding to text messages can be listed third etc. A user s selection of the manner in which list of notifications is arranged will be described in more detail in connection with .

List of notifications can be scrollable. In particular region of display screen can be made scrollable such that list of notifications can move up or down when the user either swipes or drags a portion of region . As a result list of notifications can be capable of displaying a large number of notifications e.g. all of the notifications that have been received while a device is operating in a locked state . In some embodiments list of notifications can be automatically displayed regardless of whether pull down option was displayed and manipulated by a user.

In addition each notification in list of notifications can be individually accessible. For example each notification can be associated with its own slider. Similar to the discussion above a user may select to access a notification in list of notifications by tapping and holding the notification. For example the user can tap and hold notification and responsive to the user s actions the notification can display a slider in list of notification e.g. by flipping notification to a backside view .

Turning now to display screen shows listing of notifications with a backside view of notification . In particular notification can include slider . Similar to slider slider can be an embedded component in notification . A user can activate slider by dragging slider button in one direction e.g. to the right of display screen .

Once the user actives slider the notification module can detect that slider has been activated and the module can unlock the electronic device. After unlocking the device the notification module can present the particular notification in the application that generated the notification.

In some embodiments the user may select to unlock the device. For example the user may select to unlock the device by pressing a button e.g. an on off and or a home button or sliding UNLOCK slider . Responsive to the user s actions the notification module can display a notification center on the display screen e.g. similar to notification center of . In other embodiments in response to the user unlocking the device the notification module may not display the notification center until the user specifically invokes the notification center. In some embodiments UNLOCK slider or other user input unlocking region can include context sensitive text that changes based on when a notification is received. For example if an email is received and displayed in the list of notifications the text state slide to read. As another example if a reminder notification is received the text may state slide to view. 

In some cases the notification module may allow a user to specify a privacy setting. Thus if the user selects to turn on the privacy setting one or more notifications or types of notifications e.g. notifications associated with text messages received when the electronic device is in a locked state are not displayed while the device remains in that state. Then once the user selects to unlock the device the notification module can display the received notifications in one or more banners e.g. similar to banners of .

As discussed previously because users may have different preferences for how they would like notifications to be displayed the electronic device can allow users to customize notification settings. In particular a user may be able to customize notification settings for the locked e.g. notifications and unlocked states e.g. the notification center and banners .

Referring back to display screen can include SETTINGS option . In particular the user may select SETTINGS option to change one or more settings of the electronic device. Thus responsive to the user selecting SETTINGS option the electronic device can provide display screens allowing the user to change system settings. For example turning now to display screens associated with customizing notification settings are shown.

Referring first to display screen is shown to include list of settings which can be displayed after the user selects SETTINGS option . List of settings can include NOTIFICATIONS option . A user may select NOTIFICATIONS option to access and modify one or more notification settings e.g. by tapping on NOTIFICATIONS option .

in response to detecting that the user has selected NOTIFICATIONS option the electronic device can provide one or more notification settings on a display screen. These notification settings can allow a user to change one or more banner options or notification center options e.g. when an electronic device is in an unlocked state or one or more notification options e.g. when an electronic device is in a locked state . For example referring next to display screen is shown which can include multiple notification settings.

For example display screen can include manual sorting option and automatic sorting option . Sorting options and are user selected parameters that can specify the order in which notifications are displayed in one or more contexts such as for example in a list of notifications e.g. list of notifications of .

If a user selects sorting option a notification module e.g. notification module of can allow the user e.g. provide options to the user to manually specify the order in which notifications are displayed in a list of notifications. That is the user can specify which application s notifications should appear first second and so forth. Based on the user s selection of sorting option the notification module can sort the received notifications based on the user specified order.

In some embodiments the order in which the applications are sorted can correspond to the order in which applications are listed in the In Notification Center group . In other embodiments the electronic device can display a different display screen not shown that can allow the user to specify the order in which the applications are to be sorted.

Once the notification module has sorted notifications in groups based on corresponding applications the notification can assign a pre determined order for each group. For example for each group the notification module can arrange the associated notifications based on the time of receipt of each notification e.g. based on a chronological order . Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that any other pre determined order can be used instead.

In contrast if a user selects sorting option the notification module can assign a pre determined order for displaying notifications in the list of notifications. In particular the notification module can arrange the received notifications based on the time of receipt of each notification e.g. based on a chronological order . That is the most recently received notification can be appended to the top or bottom of a list of notifications. If a newer notification is received the top notification can be pushed down in the list of notifications.

Display screen can also include options which can allow a user to specify which applications to display in a notification center e.g. notification center of . As shown in display screen options can include multiple interactive lists e.g. In Notification Center group and Not in Notification Center group . Notifications for applications that are included in the In Notification Center group are displayed in the notification center. By contrast notifications for applications that are included in the Not in Notification Center group are excluded from the notification center.

A user may specify which applications to include in the notification center using any suitable approach. For example the user can manually adjust options by selecting EDIT option . In response to the user selecting EDIT option the electronic device can provide a display screen that allows the user to manually move applications in and out of groups and .

Turning now to display screen can be shown in response to the user s selection of EDIT option . As shown in display screen the user can move each of the options in or out of In Notification Center group and Not in Notification Center group . For example the user can tap and drag option from the Not in Notification Center group to the In Notification Center group .

Once the user has finished editing the applications to be displayed in a notification center the user may select DONE option . After the user s selection the electronic device can return to a display screen similar to display screen of .

As another example the user may specify which applications are to be displayed in a notification center by tapping on an option in options . For example referring to the user can select MAIL option . In response to the user s selection the electronic device can provide a detailed view of display options for the MAIL application.

Turning now to display screen can provide a detailed view of display options for the MAIL application. Display screen can include switch which can allow a user to specify whether to include notifications received from the MAIL application in the notification center. In particular if the user sets switch to ON notifications received from the MAIL application will be displayed in the notification center. If the user instead sets switch to OFF notifications received from the MAIL application will not be displayed in the notification center.

If notifications from an application have been selected to be included in the notification center the user may specify a pre determined number of notifications to be displayed for that application by selecting SHOW option .

Referring now to the electronic device can provide display screen which can be displayed in response to the user selecting SHOW option . Display screen can include list of options in which each option of the list can allow a user to specify a different number of notifications to be displayed for an application in the notification center e.g. one five or ten notifications . For example in response to the user selecting option the application pane corresponding to the mail application e.g. application pane of can display a maximum of ten notifications. In some cases based on the frequency of updates the pre determined number of notifications may be set to a higher number for some applications e.g. an e mail or social network application and may be set to a lower number for other applications e.g. a weather application .

Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that options provided in list of options are merely illustrative. In particular the electronic device can alternatively provide one or more options that allow the user to specify any pre determined number of notifications e.g. one five ten twenty or more items and so on .

Based on the pre determined number of notifications a notification module can automatically clear out notifications from an application pane when the number of notifications that can be displayed exceeds the pre determined number e.g. as shown in . Because the notification module can automatically remove one or more notifications that exceed the pre determined number of notifications the notification module is able to provide a concise presentation of notifications in the notification center. Moreover this approach is convenient for users because users do not have to clear notifications out of the notification center by for example selecting button of .

Referring back to display screen can further include option which can allow a user to select whether to display notifications associated with the application while an electronic device is operating in the locked state e.g. in the display screens of . In some embodiments user can opt in to option . That is option can have a default state of OFF such that notifications that are received while the device is in the locked state are not displayed until the device is switched to the unlocked state.

This setting can be advantageous because it allows a user to customize the display of notifications based on privacy concerns. For example the user may not want new e mail messages to appear on the display screen while the device is operating in the locked state. Once the user unlocks the device however the user may want to be able to see the received e mail messages by invoking the notification center or through one or more banners. If however the user selects to set option to ON the notification module can immediately display new notifications received while the device is in the locked state.

Options can allow a user to specify how notifications are to be displayed while an electronic device is operating in an unlocked state. For example options can include NONE option BANNERS option and ALERTS option .

In response to the user selecting NONE option the notification module can suppress visual notifications for a particular application. However the notifications can still be displayed in a notification center. Alternatively in response to the user selecting BANNERS option the notification module can display received notifications as one or more banners on the display screen e.g. banners shown in . The user may for example select BANNERS option if a particular application transmits important but frequently generated notifications.

In response to the user selecting ALERTS option the notification module can display received notifications as messages that require a user s response e.g. the user is required to select a DISMISS option or a VIEW option depending on the type of application .

Display screen can also include BADGE APP ICON option which can indicate whether to display a picture of the application in a banner corresponding to a notification that is received. For example if BADGE APP ICON option is set to ON the notification module can display an icon representing the application that generated the notification e.g. icon of . If BADGE APP ICON option is instead set to OFF the notification module will not display icons in the banners corresponding to the application. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that in addition to or instead of a picture of the application BADGE APP ICON can enable the notification module to add any other visual embellishments to a banner.

 SOUNDS option can indicate whether to enable sounds upon receipt of a notification for the application. If SOUNDS option is set to OFF no sounds will be played when a notification is received for the application. If SOUNDS option is instead set to ON the notification can play audio alerts when a new notification of the application is received. As a result even if NONE option is selected for a particular application e.g. there are no visual notifications the user may still hear audio alerts when new notifications are received for that application. As a result of hearing the audio alerts a user may later choose to invoke the notification center in order to access the notifications. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the notification settings discussed in are merely illustrative and that any other suitable notification settings can be made customizable.

As discussed previously a notification module can be implemented on any suitable electronic device. For example the notification module can be implemented on an electronic device with a large display and or touch screen e.g. touch I O device of . In such embodiments the notification center may not fill the entire screen as it does on a smaller device.

For instance turning now to display screens are shown for an electronic device with a large display. Referring first to display screen shows that notification center does not fill the entirety of display screen .

Furthermore for a device with a large display the notification module may display a visual indication when the notification center does not include any new notifications. For example as shown in display screen of the notification module can indicate that notification center currently contains no new notifications. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that such an indication can also be provided on an electronic device with a smaller display.

Referring now to display screen shows the type of notifications that may be displayed when an electronic device with a large screen is in both a locked state and a landscape mode. Thus in contrast to new notifications that are received are not first displayed as large individual notifications on the display screen. Rather the new notifications are displayed in scrollable list of notifications . Consequently there may be no need for the notification module to display a pull down option such as pull down option of . Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that list of notifications can be displayed in a similar manner when the device is in a portrait mode.

Persons skilled in the art will also appreciate that each of the notifications in list of notifications can exhibit similar characteristics as the notifications in list of notifications . In addition persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the display screens shown in are merely one embodiment of the notification center. Thus a notification module implemented on an electronic device with a large display can display notifications in any suitable manner e.g. similar to the manner in which notifications are provided in and .

Turning now to flowcharts of illustrative processes are shown in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. These processes may be executed by one or more components of an electronic device e.g. device of or system of . For example at least some of the steps in the processes of may be performed by a notification module e.g. notification module of . In addition persons skilled in the art will appreciate that some of the steps may be performed in conjunction with a touch processing module e.g. touch processing module of and or a graphics module e.g. graphics module of .

Turning first to process is shown for displaying a pull down option in response to receiving multiple notifications. Process may begin at step and at step the notification module can receive a plurality of notifications from at least one application.

Then at step the notification module can detect that the electronic device is operating in a locked state. Continuing to step the notification module can provide a pull down option e.g. pull down option of associated with the plurality of notifications. In addition the notification module can also provide a notification on a display screen e.g. notification of notification of or notification of where the displayed notification can be the one that was most recently received.

After providing the pull down option process may move to step . At step the notification module can determine that a user has selected the pull down option. Then at step the notification module can provide a list of the plurality of notifications to the user e.g. list of notifications of . Process may then end at step .

Turning now to process is shown for displaying a notification center. Process may begin at step and at step the notification module can receive a plurality of notifications where the plurality of notifications can include at least one of a push based notification e.g. a notification from a non third party or third party application and a trigger based notification e.g. an alarm or a reminder .

Then at step the notification module can detect that an electronic device is in an unlocked state. After detecting that the device is in the unlocked state process may move to step .

At step the notification module can detect that a user has selected to access a notification center. For example the notification module can detect that the user has performed a gross swipe gesture e.g. by quickly flicking one or more fingers in a downward motion from the top of a display screen . As another example the notification module can detect that the user has slowly dragged one or more fingers downwards from the top of display screen.

Continuing to step the notification module can display the notification center where the notification center can include a plurality of panes associated with the plurality of notifications e.g. panes of . Process may then end at step .

Referring now to a flowchart of illustrative process is shown for providing a banner. Process may begin at step and at step the notification module can receive a notification from at least one application. At step the notification module can detect that an electronic device is in an unlocked state.

Continuing to step the notification module can provide a banner associated with the notification where the banner allows a user to access at least one control overlapping with the banner. For example as shown in the notification module can provide banner that overlaps with NOTIFICATIONS button . However the notification module can nonetheless allow a user to access NOTIFICATIONS button . After providing the banner process may end at step .

Referring now to a flowchart of illustrative process is shown for providing notification settings. Process may begin at step and at step the notification module can provide an option to modify settings for device notifications e.g. NOTIFICATIONS option of . Then at step the notification module can detect that a user has selected the option.

Continuing to step the notification module can provide a plurality of notification settings where the plurality of notification settings can include options associated with one or more of an order of notifications option e.g. options of a number of notifications option e.g. list of options of and alert style options e.g. alert style options of . Process may then end at step .

It should be understood that processes and of are merely illustrative. Any of the steps may be removed modified or combined and any additional steps may be added without departing from the scope of the invention.

The described embodiments of the invention are presented for the purpose of illustration and not of limitation.

