---

title: Method and procedure for dynamic services orchestration that runs within an on-device software container
abstract: A system for providing network services is provided. The system includes a device configured to interface with the network to receive a container, where the container is configured to interface with an operating system of the device and a plurality of applications operating on the device. The container is further configured to interface with a network services provider of one or more network services and one or more third party service providers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09628572&OS=09628572&RS=09628572
owner: RELIANCE JIO INFOCOMM USA, INC.
number: 09628572
owner_city: Plano
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160216
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 922 045 filed Jun. 19 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 264 304 which claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 662 237 filed Jun. 20 2012 entitled METHOD AND PROCEDURE FOR DYNAMIC SERVICES ORCHESTRATION THAT RUNS WITHIN AN ON DEVICE SOFTWARE CONTAINER which is hereby incorporated by references for all purposes as if set forth herein in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates to application software and more specifically to a method and system for dynamic services orchestration that runs within an on device software container.

A runtime environment on a mobile device consists of a variety of native services and applications that are embedded into the mobile device operating system. For example in the Android operating system there are predefined services for specific applications such as Google Search and Google Navigation and the policy framework is hard coded. The services and policy framework embedded within mobile device operating system are pre defined and not extensible to be modified updated by third party applications which makes it impossible to easily modify or update the operation of the device to accommodate new applications.

A system for providing network services is provided. The system includes a device configured to interface with the network to receive a container where the container is configured to interface with an operating system of the device and a plurality of applications operating on the device. The container is further configured to interface with a network services provider of one or more network services and one or more third party service providers.

Other systems methods features and advantages of the present disclosure will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the present disclosure and be protected by the accompanying claims.

In the description that follows like parts are marked throughout the specification and drawings with the same reference numerals. The drawing figures might not be to scale and certain components can be shown in generalized or schematic form and identified by commercial designations in the interest of clarity and conciseness.

The present disclosure includes a means to provide access to a defined set of services on a user s mobile device through a trusted software environment that can enforce business policy as it relates to specific service access for each unique third party applications and personal policy that is defined by the customer s settings for the utilization of services within each application.

As used herein hardware can include a combination of discrete components an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit a field programmable gate array or other suitable hardware. As used herein software can include one or more objects agents threads lines of code subroutines separate software applications two or more lines of code or other suitable software structures operating in two or more software applications or on two or more processors or other suitable software structures. In one exemplary embodiment software can include one or more lines of code or other suitable software structures operating in a general purpose software application such as an operating system and one or more lines of code or other suitable software structures operating in a specific purpose software application. As used herein the term couple and its cognate terms such as couples and coupled can include a physical connection such as a copper conductor a virtual connection such as through randomly assigned memory locations of a data memory device a logical connection such as through logical gates of a semiconducting device other suitable connections or a suitable combination of such connections.

System includes network container which further includes virtual software bus that can allow a suitable application or service loaded within network container to connect to application store third party services platform network web services gateway or other suitable systems or services. In one exemplary embodiment application store third party services platform and network web services gateway can be implemented in hardware or a suitable combination of hardware and software and can be one or more software systems operating on one or more processors such as a dedicated server a cloud implemented service or in other suitable manners.

Virtual software bus facilitates the transport of data between the applications and services operating within network container and centralized orchestration framework which can be hosted at network web services gateway or in other suitable locations such as a single server or a cloud service . Orchestration framework behaves both as a proxy and broker for the messages from other applications and services running within network container . A single application programming interface API is used by network applications customized third party applications native operating system OS applications websites and the associated services provided by these applications and websites to interface with definitions for the applications and services and to provide information enabling orchestration framework to create the context for a sequence of events that determines the brokering and chaining of API requests to the various backend systems associated with the applications and websites such as application store third party services platform and network web services gateway .

Network container can be installed on a user device such as a cellular telephone or tablet computer either by the customer as an application that is downloaded over the air OTA onto their device can be integrated into software that is pre loaded onto the user device or can be otherwise provided. Orchestration framework provides a trusted software environment to enforce policies common across all applications and services as well as policies that are unique to any application or service. A personal policy can be defined by or for the customer for the utilization of services within each application.

In one exemplary embodiment network web services gateway can update a service provided by or through a network application from a first version to second version. In another exemplary embodiment network web services gateway can register services that can be utilized locally within the network on a device with network container such as video audio codecs digital rights management or other suitable services. In another exemplary embodiment network web services gateway can registers service that are brokered by the network on a device with network container to a back end network platform such as third party payments identity news feeds mapping or other suitable services. In another exemplary embodiment a third party can registers services that can be utilized locally within the network on a device with network container such as video audio codecs digital rights management or other suitable services. In another exemplary embodiment a third party can register services that are brokered by the network on a device with a network container to a third party back end server such as third party payments identity news feeds mapping or other suitable services. In another exemplary embodiment network web services gateway can publish a service such as VPN private cloud access enterprise email or other suitable services that can only be used by a device with network container .

API allows system to interface with network applications customized third party applications native OS applications and websites through their corresponding APIs .

Proxy provides proxy functionality for the applications and services running within and in conjunction with network container such as to allow those applications and services to readily interact with each other and to apply rules to the interaction between applications and services. In one exemplary embodiment proxy can ensure continuity of operation in the event of intermittent communications with the device upon which network container is operating.

Broker provides broker services for messages from applications and services running within and in conjunction with network container . In one exemplary embodiment broker manages workload queues for multiple receivers.

Definitions are used to provide the definitions for messages between applications and services such as to facilitate implementation of applications and services for use with a device having network container . In one exemplary embodiment definitions provides a centralized location for definitions to allow the definitions to be easily updated and coordinated.

Personal policy rules allows a user system administrator or other suitable person or system to control personal policy rules settings such as to control system or application data or functionality that a user can access to control the data or account functionality of a user that can be accessed by an application or service or to provide other suitable functions.

In another exemplary embodiment a full screen widget such as a panel can be provided to have defined criteria and settings that can either be pre configured by the application developer or network or to be configured by the users.

An exemplary use case could include an enterprise panel created for an enterprise that includes a VPN client email cloud directory access intranet web browser URL access and video conference calling app. In this enterprise panel the IT administrator for the enterprise can define which applications that have specific access to a private set of services to log on and access company cloud services through the company firewall. The IT administrator can also define rules where the panel can t be modified such as to bring in additional icon shortcuts .

In another exemplary embodiment a dynamic contextual based policy framework can be provided. Examples of contextual based policies include 

In another exemplary embodiment the network on device services framework can be enabled to enforce a policy framework that is driven by a unique application ID that is assigned to permissions as granted by the network. If an application is requesting access to a service that it has not been granted permission to utilize by the network then the network on device services framework can enforce the policy and not allow the user to access to the requested service.

In another exemplary embodiment the network can be configured to upload bulk advertising that is targeted optimized for the network broadband customer in the background to the network on device container of a user s device. The network container can have an advertising engine that will in real time broker and fulfill locally on the device the applications advertising requests that are running in the network container. The network advertising engine can track all user behavior for the provided advertising and save the advertising delivery data for the network analytics platform.

In another exemplary embodiment the ability to track all user activity of applications websites and native OS apps and services running in the network container can be provided. User activity tracked can include the apps utilized all screens accessed services utilized and any interactions with other users. All user behavior for the provided advertising can be tracked and sent to the analytics platform.

In another exemplary embodiment security for transactions can be enabled based on persona and access to specific services within a persona such as business access to services or in other suitable manners. For the transaction a unique identifier within the data packets header can be utilized for specific level of security for access to services requiring strong protection such as payments medical and financial information. The services orchestration layer can be utilized to create the unique identifier within the data packet header.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments are merely examples of possible implementations. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments without departing from the principles of the present disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

