---

title: Nonvolatile static random access memory (NVSRAM) system having a static random access memory (SRAM) array and a resistive memory array
abstract: An integrated circuit (IC) device includes a static random access memory (SRAM) array, and a resistive memory (resistive memory) array. A first set of programmable resistive elements in the resistive memory array are used to store data from memory cells in the SRAM array. Sense amplifier circuitry is couplable to the SRAM array and the resistive memory array. An arbiter is configured to assert an resistive memory enable signal to couple the sense amplifier circuitry to the resistive memory array and decouple the sense amplifier circuitry from the SRAM array during a resistive memory read operation, and to couple the sense amplifier to the SRAM array and decouple the sense amplifier circuitry from the resistive memory array during an SRAM read operation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09640256&OS=09640256&RS=09640256
owner: NXP USA, Inc.
number: 09640256
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160526
---
This disclosure relates generally to memory systems and more specifically to memory systems having an SRAM array and a resistive memory array.

Resistive memories such as magnetoresistive RAMs MRAMs are commonly used non volatile memories. However read and write access times for resistive memories are typically slow especially as compared to read and write access times for SRAMs. Therefore in some systems non volatile memory NVM backup to SRAM is used. In such systems an SRAM is used for operation on the data and upon power down the data is moved from SRAM to a NVM such as MRAM. The data is then restored back to the SRAM upon powering up. This solution provides the operation efficiency offered by SRAMs and the non volatility provided by MRAMs. Such a system may be referred to as a non volatile SRAM NVSRAM . In one NVSRAM solution a bus interface between the two memories is required which must switch during data transfer between the two memories. Alternative solutions includes memory cells which have both volatile and non volatile portions but these are area inefficient. Therefore a need exists for improved NVSRAM system which enables store and restore operations and is area efficient.

A NVSRAM system includes a discrete SRAM array and resistive memory array used to store and restore backup data. Data is stored from the SRAM array to the resistive memory array for backup and restored back from the resistive memory array to the SRAM array for normal operation. In order to gain area efficiency the resistive memory array and SRAM array share the sense amplifiers. For an SRAM read operation the sense amplifiers are used to provide the output data. In one embodiment the resistive memory array is an MRAM array. An MRAM read operation includes two phases a calibration phase and a non calibration i.e. sense phase. For an MRAM read operation the sense amplifiers are also used for the non calibration phase to provide the output data. In this manner a tightly coupled NVSRAM system provides the appropriate store and restore functionality in an area efficient manner.

MRAM includes MRAM array Y decoders buffers and MRAM pre sense amplifier circuitry buffers and and sense amplifiers . MRAM array includes k true bit lines BLk k true source lines SLk k complementary source lines SLBk and k complementary bit lines BLBk . Each bit cell in MRAM array is coupled to a corresponding bit line pair and source line pair. The k bit line pairs and k source line pairs are coupled to Y decoders which produce j true MRAM source lines MSLj and j complementary MRAM source lines MSLBj in which a subset of the i source line pairs and bit line pairs is used to provide the j MRAM source line pairs by Y decoders based on the input MRAM access address. The MRAM array and Y decoders can be implemented as known in the art. The MRAM source line pairs are provided to j MRAM pre sense amplifier circuitry which provides j true MRAM pre sense amplifier outputs MPreSAOj and j complementary MRAM pre sense amplifier outputs MPreSAOBj to buffers and respectively. Arbiter provides an MRAM enable signal to each of buffer and which when asserted enables buffers and to provide MPreSAOj and MPreSAOBj to sense amplifiers . Further details of MRAM pre sense amplifier circuitry will be provided in reference to below.

During normal operation of a data processing system including system SRAM and thus SRAM array is used for operation because it performs quicker reads and writes as compared to MRAM . Upon power down data is moved from SRAM array to MRAM array so as to not lose data. For example data from SRAM array can be moved to a first portion of MRAM array . Note that data other than data from SRAM array can be stored in a second portion of MRAM array . Upon powering back up the previously moved data is restored from MRAM array back to SRAM array . Therefore included in system are switches and to direct data as needed during normal operation and during store and restore functions.

Switch is coupled to receive SRAM DATA and an SRAM write control signal SRAM WR and switch is coupled to receive complementary SRAM DATA SRAM DATAB and SRAM WR. SRAM WR indicates when a normal SRAM write is to occur of SRAM DATA into SRAM array . When SRAM WR is asserted SRAM DATA is provided onto DLj and SRAM DATAB is provided onto DLBj. Switch is coupled to receive SAOj and an SRAM restore control signal SRAM RESTORE and switch is coupled to receive SAOBj and SRAM RESTORE. SRAM RESTORE indicates when a write of data from MRAM array is to occur to SRAM array to restore data back from MRAM array to SRAM array . When SRAM RESTORE is asserted SAOj is provided onto DLj and SAOBj is provided onto DLBj. This may occur when MRAM en is asserted and therefore buffers and provide MPreSAOj and MPreSAOBj respectively to sense amplifiers to produce SAOj and SAOBj. SAOj and SAOBj are then provided after data has been sensed and latched by sense amplifiers via switches and to DLj and DLBj respectively.

Switch is coupled to receive MRAM DATA and an MRAM write control signal MRAM WR and switch is coupled to receive complementary MRAM DATA MRAM DATAB and MRAM WR. Each of buffers and receive a negative logic read bar control signal RDB which during a read is asserted to a logic level 0 and during a write is negated to a logic level 1. MRAM WR indicates when a normal MRAM write is to occur of MRAM DATA into MRAM array . When MRAM WR is asserted MRAM DATA and MRAM DATAB are provided to MBLj and MBLBj respectively. During a write RDB is a logic level 1 thus enabling buffers and to also provide MRAM DATA and MRAM DATAB to MSLBj and MSLj respectively. In this manner the values on MBLj and MSLj will be complementary to each other and the values on MBLBj and MSLBj will be complementary to each other as is needed for a write to MRAM array . Switch is coupled to receive SAOj and MRAM store control signal MRAM STORE and switch is coupled to receive SAOBj and MRAM STORE. MRAM STORE indicates when a write of data from SRAM is to occur to MRAM . When MRAM STORE is asserted SAOj and SAOBj are provided to MBLj MBLBj MSLj and MSLBj as appropriate as directed by the connections to MBLj and MSLBj and the connections of buffers and to MSLBj and MSLj . In this case MRAM en may be negated since a read from SRAM array using sense amplifiers is occurring.

Control circuitry not shown can be used to provide SRAM access addresses to SRAM array and Y decoders and provide MRAM access addresses to MRAM array and Y decoders . The control circuitry can also provide the control signals SRAM WR SRAM RESTORE MRAM STORE MRAM WR and MRAM en. The control circuitry can provide these signals as needed to implement the store and restore functions described above.

Arbiter as described above provides MRAM en to buffers and and indicates which memory array being used for a read operation. For example when MRAM en is asserted a read from MRAM array is being performed. Y decoders and MRAM pre sense amplifiers are enabled coupling MPreSAOj and MPreSAOBj to sense amplifiers . Sense amplifiers are decoupled from SRAM array by turning off Y decoders such that all bit line pairs of SRAM array are deselected. When the MRAM en signal is negated a read from SRAM array is being performed. Y decoders are enabled and the j data line pairs couple SRAM array to sense amplifiers . Sense amplifiers are decoupled from MRAM array and MRAM pre sense amplifier circuitry by disabling buffers and .

Referring to sense amplifier a first current electrode of each of transistors and is coupled to a first voltage supply terminal e.g. Vdd. A second current electrode of transistors is coupled to a second current electrode of transistor . A second current electrode of transistors is coupled to a control electrode of transistor . A first current electrode of transistor is coupled to the second current electrode of transistor control electrode of transistors is coupled to the control electrode of transistor and a second current electrode of transistor is coupled to a first current electrode of transistor . A first current electrode of transistor is coupled to a second current electrode of transistor a control electrode of transistor is coupled to a control electrode of transistor and the second current electrode of transistor and a second current electrode of transistor is coupled to the first current electrode of transistor . A second current electrode of transistor is coupled to a second voltage supply terminal e.g. ground . Control electrodes of transistors and are coupled to receive a precharge signal pch b and a control electrode of transistor is coupled to receive a sense enable signal sensen.

Referring to MRAM pre sense amplifier a first current electrode of transistor is coupled to a second current electrode of transistor a second current electrode of transistor is coupled to the second voltage supply terminal. A control electrode of transistor is coupled to the output of inverting amplifier and a first terminal of switch . An input of inverting amplifier is coupled to a second terminal of switch a first current electrode of transistor and a first terminal of capacitor . A second terminal of capacitor is coupled to an output of inverting amplifier and a first terminal of switch . An input of inverting amplifier is coupled to a second terminal of switch a first current electrode of transistor and a first terminal of capacitor . A second terminal of capacitor is coupled to a first terminal of switch and a first terminal of switch . Second current electrodes of transistors and are coupled to the first supply voltage terminal. Control electrodes of transistors and are coupled to receive MRAM en.

Still referring to MRAM pre sense amplifier a first current electrode of transistor is coupled to a second current electrode of transistor a second current electrode of transistor is coupled to the second voltage supply terminal. A control electrode of transistor is coupled to the output of inverting amplifier and a first terminal of switch . An input of inverting amplifier is coupled to a second terminal of switch a first current electrode of transistor and a first terminal of capacitor . A second terminal of capacitor is coupled to an output of inverting amplifier and a first terminal of switch . An input of inverting amplifier is coupled to a second terminal of switch a first current electrode of transistor and a first terminal of capacitor . A second terminal of capacitor is coupled to a first terminal of switch and a first terminal of switch . Second current electrodes of transistors and are coupled to the first supply voltage terminal. Control electrodes of transistors and are coupled to receive MRAM en. A second terminal of switch is coupled to a second terminal of switch and a second terminal of switch is coupled to a second terminal of switch . Note capacitors and inverting amplifiers and and switches and may collectively be referred to as a capacitive circuit which includes switched capacitors. Similarly capacitors and inverting amplifiers and and switches and may collectively be referred to as a capacitive circuit which includes switched capacitors. Furthermore the capacitive circuits may include additional elements such as more capacitors or different elements such as different elements to implement an inverting amplifier.

Referring to MRAM array a word line WL is coupled to control electrodes of transistors and . A first terminal of programmable resistive element is coupled to an MRAM bit line MRAM bl which is coupled to a second terminal of switch . A second terminal of resistive element is coupled to a first current electrode of transistor and a second current electrode of transistors is coupled to the second voltage supply terminal. A first terminal of programmable resistive element is coupled to an MRAM complementary bit line MRAM blb corresponding to MRAM bl which is coupled to a second terminal of switch . A second terminal of resistive element is coupled to a first current electrode of transistor and a second current electrode of transistor is coupled to the second voltage supply terminal. Each programmable resistive element in MRAM array such as programmable resistive element and can be programmed to a high resistive state HRS or a low resistive state LRS . In one example HRS corresponds to a logic level 0 and LRS to a logic level 1. When programmed resistive elements and are programmed to opposite states. For example if resistive element is programmed to an HRS then resistive element is programmed to an LRS. Resistive elements and are used together to provide the logic value 1 or 0 of a bit cell. In one embodiment the programmable resistive elements are Magnetoresistive Tunnel Junction MTJ devices.

Still referring to a first terminal of switch is coupled to MRAM bl and a first terminal of switch . A first terminal of switch is coupled to MRAM blb and a first terminal of switch . An output of current source is coupled to second terminals of switches and . An output of current source is coupled to second terminals of switches and . A control input of each of switches and is coupled to receive a calibration signal cal. A control input of each of switches and is coupled to receive the complement of the calibration signal calb.

Note that in only one data line and complementary data line with its corresponding sense amplifier as well as only one MRAM bit line and complementary bit line with its corresponding MRAM pre sense amplifier is illustrated. However as illustrated in SRAM includes j data line pairs DLj and DLBj and MRAM includes j MRAM bit line pairs MBLj and MBLBj and j MRAM source line pairs MSLj and MSLBj . System would include the circuitry of for each of the j pairs. However the description of operation will be provided with reference to the one SRAM data line pair SRAM dl and SRAM dlb and MRAM bit line pair MRAM bl and MRAM blb with the source line corresponding to the second current electrodes of transistors and coupled to the second voltage supply terminal.

In operation during an SRAM read of SRAM array MRAM en is negated to a logic level 0 which places Vdd at the input of inverting amplifiers and . Also cal is negated such that switches and are open. This therefore turns off transistors and . This allows sense amplifiers to sense the logic state on the bit cell of SRAM array coupled to SRAM dl and SRAM dlb. The precharge and sense enable signals can be controlled as needed to perform the read operation. For example pch b can be asserted during a first portion of the SRAM read operation to a logic level 0 and sensen negated to a logic level 0 which results in coupling both SRAM dl and SRAM dlb to the same voltage Vdd. Once the precharge is complete during a second portion of the SRAM read operation pch b is negated and afterwards sensen is asserted to a logic level 1 which turns on transistor . The timing of these two signals can be controlled by additional circuitry not shown as needed for proper operation. For example it should be ensured that the precharging is complete before commencing the sensing. During this second portion of the SRAM read operation the currents pulled down on SRAM dl and SRAM dlb by the selected SRAM bit cell are sensed to determine the value of the bit cell and SAO and SAOb can be output accordingly. For example SRAM dl and SRAM dlb can be provided to buffers to provide SAO and SAOb respectively in which these buffers are enabled once values are sensed. Since transistors and are off MRAM array and MRAM pre sense amplifiers are decoupled from sense amplifiers .

In operation during an MRAM read of MRAM array MRAM en is asserted to a logic level 1 thus enabling MRAM pre sense amplifiers . During an MRAM read operation MRAM pre sense amplifiers provides pulldown transistors and the necessary signals that result in SRAM dl and SRAM dlb being what an SRAM bit cell would provide if SRAM array were coupled to sense amplifiers and providing the read data instead. That is during the MRAM read operation to sense amplifiers the SRAM bit lines appear as if they were coming from SRAM array rather than MRAM array . Note that transistors and correspond to a part of buffers and of . With MRAM en asserted transistors and are turned off decoupling VDD from the inputs of inverting amplifiers and and allowing them to operate according to the values provided at their inputs by the normal circuit operation.

The MRAM read operation includes two phases the calibration phase and the non calibration i.e. the sense phase. These phases may also be referred to as modes. For the calibration phase cal is asserted e.g. to a logic level 1 and therefore calb is negated to a logic level 0 and for the non calibration phase cal is negated to a logic level 0 and calb is asserted to a logic level 1 . illustrate the same circuit as but the switches are configured for the calibration phase in and for the non calibration phase in . In when the control input of a switch is asserted e.g. a logic level 1 the switch is closed or in its conductive state and when the control input is negated e.g. a logic level 0 the switch is open or in its non conductive state.

Referring to the calibration phase and due to cal being asserted and calb negated switches and are closed and switches and are open. Operation of the circuit of will be described in reference to the right half of MRAM pre sense amplifier including current source . The description of the left half of MRAM pre sense amplifier including current source is analogous to the right half. During the calibration phase current from current source is provided via closed switch up through MRAM blb which results in an IR drop over programmable resistive element . This voltage appears via closed switch on capacitor and thus charges capacitor . With switch closed inverting amplifier is set at its trip point. Similarly inverting amplifier provides a second stage of amplification in which capacitor stores the charge at the output of inverting amplifier . With switch closed inverting amplifier is also set at its trip point. Analogous operation occurs with current source and the left side. Therefore inverting amplifiers and are set at their trip points as well. Note that at this point a charge is stored on capacitors and . Also during the calibration phase pch b is asserted to a logic level 0 and sensen is negated to a logic level 0 thus coupling Vdd to both SRAM dl and SRAM dlb. This sets both the true data line and complementary data line to the same voltage Vdd so as to precharge sense amplifiers . As discussed above the timing of pch b and sensen can be controlled to ensure that the precharging is complete and a voltage difference is present on SRAM dl and SRAM dlb before sensed data is latched.

Referring to during the non calibration phase due to cal being negated and calb asserted switches and are open and switches and are closed. In this phase the current from current source is provided via closed switch up through MRAM bl which results in an IR drop over programmable resistive element . This voltage appears at capacitor via closed switch and is compared to the charge stored on this capacitor during the calibration phase. With switch open inverting amplifier is tripped accordingly. For example since inverting amplifier was previously set to its trip point if the voltage on capacitor goes down even a little from where it was before then inverting amplifier trips outputting towards a logic level 1. Therefore in this example inverting amplifier outputs a logic level 0 turning off transistor . If the voltage on capacitor goes up even a little from where it was before then inverting amplifier trips and outputs towards a logic level 0. In this case inverting amplifier outputs a logic level 1 turning on pull down transistor . Analogous operation occurs with current source and the left side. Current from is provided via close switch up through programmable resistive element and the voltage appears at capacitor via close switch . With switch open inverting amplifier trips accordingly. The output of inverting amplifier is provided to inverting amplifier whose output is provided to turn on or off pull down transistor . Also during the non calibration phase sensen is asserted so that sense amplifiers can sense the value on SRAM dl and SRAM dlb which result from pull down transistors and controlled by MRAM pre sense amplifiers .

As discussed above each of programmable resistive element and can either be in an HRS or LRS. Programmable resistive elements and are programmed into opposite states and the combination of both resistive elements store the logic value of a bit cell. The difference between the HRS and LRS though is very small requiring a high sensitivity to detect the difference. By setting capacitors and during the calibration phase and comparing capacitors and to their previous values during the non calibration phase MRAM pre sense amplifiers can properly set the values at the control gates of transistors and which imitate what the bit lines of SRAM array would be if the same logic value were stored in an SRAM cell.

Current source ideally provides the same current as current source . In one embodiment current sources and are implemented as current mirrors. Generally there is mismatch in current sources and . By running current first through switches and and switches and during the calibration phase and then through switches and and switches and during the non calibration phase the mismatch in current sources is addressed. That is during the calibration phase a first current voltage path is used to charge switch capacitors e.g. capacitors and corresponding to the voltage drop across the respective programmable resistive element. During the non calibration phase a second current voltage path is used to sense the change in voltage drop for the complementary programmable resistive element. This swapping of the current voltage paths ensures that the circuitry remains accurate even with process variations in the current sources and programmable resistive elements.

By now it can be understood how shared sense amplifiers can be used to provide output data from an SRAM array for an SRAM read operation and to provide output data from an MRAM array during the calibration phase of an MRAM read operation. Thus an NVSRAM system can provide the operation efficiency offered by SRAMs and the non volatility provided by MRAMs in an area efficient manner. Furthermore by providing two different current voltage paths during the MRAM read operation improved MRAM operation can be achieved despite process variations.

The terms assert or set and negate or deassert or clear are used herein when referring to the rendering of a signal status bit or similar apparatus into its logically true or logically false state respectively. If the logically true state is a logic level one the logically false state is a logic level zero. And if the logically true state is a logic level zero the logically false state is a logic level one.

Each signal described herein may be designed as positive or negative logic where negative logic can be indicated by an asterisk or  b following the name. In the case of a negative logic signal the signal is active low where the logically true state corresponds to a logic level zero. In the case of a positive logic signal the signal is active high where the logically true state corresponds to a logic level one. Note that any of the signals described herein can be designed as either negative or positive logic signals. Therefore in alternate embodiments those signals described as positive logic signals may be implemented as negative logic signals and those signals described as negative logic signals may be implemented as positive logic signals.

Because the apparatus implementing the present invention is for the most part composed of electronic components and circuits known to those skilled in the art circuit details will not be explained in any greater extent than that considered necessary as illustrated above for the understanding and appreciation of the underlying concepts of the present invention and in order not to obfuscate or distract from the teachings of the present invention.

Although the invention has been described with respect to specific conductivity types or polarity of potentials skilled artisans appreciated that conductivity types and polarities of potentials may be reversed.

Although the invention is described herein with reference to specific embodiments various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the claims below. For example different designs of an SRAM array or different resistive memory arrays may be used. Accordingly the specification and figures are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the present invention. Any benefits advantages or solutions to problems that are described herein with regard to specific embodiments are not intended to be construed as a critical required or essential feature or element of any or all the claims.

The term coupled as used herein is not intended to be limited to a direct coupling or a mechanical coupling.

Furthermore the terms a or an as used herein are defined as one or more than one. Also the use of introductory phrases such as at least one and one or more in the claims should not be construed to imply that the introduction of another claim element by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim element to inventions containing only one such element even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an. The same holds true for the use of definite articles.

Unless stated otherwise terms such as first and second are used to arbitrarily distinguish between the elements such terms describe. Thus these terms are not necessarily intended to indicate temporal or other prioritization of such elements.

In one embodiment an integrated circuit IC device includes a static random access memory SRAM array a resistive memory resistive memory array wherein a first set of programmable resistive elements in the resistive memory array are used to store data from memory cells in the SRAM array sense amplifier circuitry couplable to the SRAM array and the resistive memory array an arbiter configured to assert an resistive memory enable signal to couple the sense amplifier circuitry to the resistive memory array and decouple the sense amplifier circuitry from the SRAM array during a resistive memory read operation and couple the sense amplifier to the SRAM array and decouple the sense amplifier circuitry from the resistive memory array during an SRAM read operation. In one aspect the IC device further includes resistive memory pre sense amplifier circuitry couplable between the resistive memory array and the sense amplifier circuitry wherein the resistive memory pre sense amplifier circuitry is coupled to the sense amplifier circuitry during the resistive memory read operation and decoupled from the sense amplifier circuitry during the SRAM read operation. In another aspect a second set of the programmable resistive elements in the resistive memory array are used to store data other than data from the SRAM array. In another aspect two of the programmable resistive elements of the resistive memory array are programmed in opposite states to store a logical bit of data from the SRAM array. In a further aspect the pre sense amplifier includes a first capacitive circuit and a second capacitive circuit calibration switches operable to couple a first of the two programmable resistive elements to the first capacitive circuit and a second of the two programmable resistive elements to the second capacitive circuit during a calibration mode and couple the first of the two programmable resistive elements to the second capacitive circuit and the second of the two programmable resistive elements to the first capacitive circuit during a sense mode of the resistive memory read operation. In a further aspect the IC device further includes a first current source and a second current source additional calibrations switches operable to during the calibration mode couple the first current source to the first of the two programmable resistive elements and the first capacitive circuit couple the second current source to the second of the two programmable resistive elements and the second capacitive circuit and during the sense mode couple the first current source to the second of the two programmable resistive elements and the first capacitive circuit couple the second current source to the first of the two programmable resistive elements and the second capacitive circuit. In another further aspect the IC device further includes a word line a true bit line a complementary bit line a first of the two programmable resistive elements is coupled to the true bit line and the word line and a second of the two programmable resistive elements is coupled the complementary bit line and the word line. In another further aspect the pre sense amplifier circuit further includes a first buffer coupled to an output of the first capacitive circuit a second buffer coupled to an output of the second capacitive circuit. In yet a further aspect the first and second buffers are respective first and second pull down transistors a gate electrode of the first pull down transistor is coupled to the output of the first capacitive circuit and a gate electrode of the second pull down transistor is coupled to the output of the second capacitive circuit. In another yet further aspect the IC device further includes a true data line and a complementary data line are coupled to a column decoder for the memory cells in the SRAM array to the sense amplifier and to respective ones of the first and second buffers. In yet an even further aspect the first and second capacitive circuits include switched capacitors.

In another embodiment a method of operating a static random access memory SRAM array and a resistive memory array includes during a read operation of the resistive memory array selecting programmable resistive elements of the resistive memory array coupling the selected programmable resistive elements of the resistive memory array to a pre sense amplifier circuit decoupling the SRAM array from a sense amplifier circuit and sensing data from differential pairs of the selected programmable resistive elements in data buffers of the pre sense amplifier circuit wherein the data buffers are coupled to respective true data lines and complementary data lines of the sense amplifier circuit during a read operation of the SRAM array decoupling the resistive memory array from the sense amplifier circuit and sensing data on true and complementary bit lines of the SRAM array with the sense amplifier circuit. In one aspect the method further includes coupling a first of the selected programmable resistive elements to a first capacitive circuit and a second of the selected programmable resistive elements to a second capacitive circuit during a calibration phase of the read operation of the resistive memory array and coupling the first of the selected programmable resistive elements to the second capacitive circuit and the second of the selected programmable resistive elements to the first capacitive circuit after the calibration phase of the read operation of the resistive memory array. In a further aspect the method further includes during the calibration phase of the read operation of the resistive memory array coupling a first current source to the first of the selected programmable resistive elements and the first capacitive circuit coupling a second current source to the second of the selected programmable resistive elements and the second capacitive circuit and after the calibration phase of the read operation of the resistive memory array coupling the first current source to the second of the selected programmable resistive elements and the first capacitive circuit coupling the second current source to the first of the selected programmable resistive elements and the second capacitive circuit. In another aspect the method further includes storing data from the SRAM array in a first portion of the resistive memory array and storing data other than data from the SRAM array in a second portion of the resistive memory array. In yet another further aspect the method further includes selecting a first of the programmable resistive elements using a true bit line and a word line and selecting a second of the differential pair of programmable resistive elements using a complementary bit line and the word line. In a further aspect the method further includes programming the selected first and second of the programmable resistive elements of the resistive memory array in opposite states to store a logical bit of data from the SRAM array. In yet another aspect the pre sense amplifier circuit further includes during the read operation of the resistive memory array decoupling the SRAM array from the sense amplifier circuit through a column decoder or an arbiter during the read operation of the SRAM array coupling the SRAM array to the sense amplifier circuit through the column decoder or the arbiter.

In yet another embodiment an integrated circuit includes a static random access memory SRAM array a resistive memory array a pre sense amplifier circuit a sense amplifier circuit wherein during a read operation of the resistive memory array the SRAM array is decoupled from the sense amplifier circuit selected programmable resistive elements of the resistive memory array are coupled to the pre sense amplifier circuit data from differential pairs of the selected programmable resistive elements is stored in data buffers of the pre sense amplifier circuit and data in the data buffers of the pre sense amplifier circuit is sensed with the sense amplifier circuit wherein during a read operation of the SRAM array the resistive memory array is decoupled from the sense amplifier circuit and data on true and complementary bit lines of the SRAM array is sensed with the sense amplifier circuit. In one aspect the integrated circuit further includes during a calibration phase of the read operation of the resistive memory array a first of the selected programmable resistive elements is coupled to a first capacitive circuit and a second of the selected programmable resistive elements to a second capacitive circuit and after the calibration phase of the read operation of the resistive memory array the first of the selected programmable resistive elements is coupled to the second capacitive circuit and the second of the selected programmable resistive elements is coupled to the first capacitive circuit.

