---

title: Targeted pyrrolobenzodiazapine conjugates
abstract: Provided are Conjugate comprising PBDs conjugated to a targeting agent and methods of using such PBDs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09592240&OS=09592240&RS=09592240
owner: MEDIMMUNE LIMITED
number: 09592240
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20160114
---
The present invention relates to targeted pyrrolobenzodiazepine PBD conjugates in particular pyrrolobenzodiazepine dimers that are conjugated to a targeting agent via the C2 position of one of the monomers.

Some pyrrolobenzodiazepines PBDs have the ability to recognise and bond to specific sequences of DNA the preferred sequence is PuGPu. The first PBD antitumour antibiotic anthramycin was discovered in 1965 Leimgruber et al. 87 5793 5795 1965 Leimgruber et al. 87 5791 5793 1965 . Since then a number of naturally occurring PBDs have been reported and over 10 synthetic routes have been developed to a variety of analogues Thurston et al. 1994 433 465 1994 . Family members include abbeymycin Hochlowski et al. 40 145 148 1987 chicamycin Konishi et al. 37 200 206 1984 DC 81 Japanese Patent 58 180 487 Thurston et al. 26 767 772 1990 Bose et al. 48 751 758 1992 mazethramycin Kuminoto et al. 33 665 667 1980 neothramycins A and B Takeuchi et al. 29 93 96 1976 porothramycin Tsunakawa et al. 41 1366 1373 1988 prothracarcin Shimizu et al 29 2492 2503 1982 Langley and Thurston 52 91 97 1987 sibanomicin DC 102 Hara et al. 41 702 704 1988 Itoh et al. 41 1281 1284 1988 sibiromycin Leber et al. 110 2992 2993 1988 and tomamycin Arima et al. 25 437 444 1972 . PBDs are of the general structure 

They differ in the number type and position of substituents in both their aromatic A rings and pyrrolo C rings and in the degree of saturation of the C ring. In the B ring there is either an imine N C a carbinolamine NH CH OH or a carbinolamine methyl ether NH CH OMe at the N10 C11 position which is the electrophilic centre responsible for alkylating DNA. All of the known natural products have an S configuration at the chiral C11a position which provides them with a right handed twist when viewed from the C ring towards the A ring. This gives them the appropriate three dimensional shape for isohelicity with the minor groove of B form DNA leading to a snug fit at the binding site Kohn In . Springer Verlag New York pp. 3 11 1975 Hurley and Needham VanDevanter 19 230 237 1986 . The ability of PBDs to form an adduct in the minor groove enables them to interfere with DNA processing hence their use as antitumour agents.

The biological activity of these molecules can be potentiated by joining two PBD units together through their C8 C hydroxyl functionalities via a flexible alkylene linker Bose D. S. et al. 114 4939 4941 1992 Thurston D. E. et al. 61 8141 8147 1996 . The PBD dimers are thought to form sequence selective DNA lesions such as the palindromic 5 Pu GATC Py 3 interstrand cross link Smellie M. et al. 42 8232 8239 2003 Martin C. et al. 44 4135 4147 which is thought to be mainly responsible for their biological activity. One example of a PBD dimer is SG2000 SJG 136 

 Gregson S. et al. 44 737 748 2001 Alley M. C. et al. 64 6700 6706 2004 Hartley J. A. et al. 64 6693 6699 2004 .

Due to the manner in which these highly potent compounds act in cross linking DNA PBD dimers have been made symmetrically i.e. both monomers of the dimer are the same. This synthetic route provides for straightforward synthesis either by constructing the PBD dimer moiety simultaneously having already formed the dimer linkage or by reacting already constructed PBD monomer moieties with the dimer linking group. These synthetic approaches have limited the options for preparation of targeted conjugates containing PBDs. Due to the observed potency of PBD dimers however there exists a need for PBD dimers that are conjugatable to targeting agents for use in targeted therapy.

The present invention relates to Conjugates comprising dimers of PBDs linked to a targeting agent wherein a PBD monomer has a substituent in the C2 position that provides an anchor for linking the compound to the targeting agent. The present invention also relates to Conjugates comprising dimers of PBDs conjugated to a targeting agent wherein the PBD monomers of the dimer are different. One of PBD monomers has a substituent in the C2 position that provides an anchor for linking the compound to the targeting agent. The Conjugates described herein have potent cytotoxic and or cytostatic activity against cells expressing a target molecule such as cancer cells or immune cells. These conjugates exhibit good potency with reduced toxicity as compared with the corresponding PBD dimer free drug compounds.

In some embodiments the Conjugates have the following formula I L LU D p I wherein L is a Ligand unit i.e. a targeting agent LU is a Linker unit and D is a Drug unit comprising a PBD dimer. The subscript p is an integer of from 1 to 20. Accordingly the Conjugates comprise a Ligand unit covalently linked to at least one Drug unit by a Linker unit. The Ligand unit described more fully below is a targeting agent that binds to a target moiety. The Ligand unit can for example specifically bind to a cell component a Cell Binding Agent or to other target molecules of interest. Accordingly the present invention also provides methods for the treatment of for example various cancers and autoimmune disease. These methods encompass the use of the Conjugates wherein the Ligand unit is a targeting agent that specifically binds to a target molecule. The Ligand unit can be for example a protein polypeptide or peptide such as an antibody an antigen binding fragment of an antibody or other binding agent such as an Fc fusion protein.

In a first aspect the Conjugates comprise a Conjugate of formula I supra wherein the Drug unit comprises a PBD dimer of the following formula II 

where A is a Caryl group X is an activatable group for conjugation to the Linker unit wherein X is selected from the group comprising O S C O O C O NHC O and N R wherein Ris selected from the group comprising H Calkyl and CHO CH where m is 1 to 3 and either 

Ris a Caryl group optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from the group comprising halo nitro cyano ether Calkyl Cheterocyclyl and bis oxy Calkylene 

where R and R are independently selected from optionally substituted Calkyl optionally substituted Cheterocyclyl and optionally substituted Caryl groups 

R is a Calkylene group which chain may be interrupted by one or more heteroatoms e.g. O S NR where Ris H or Calkyl and or aromatic rings e.g. benzene or pyridine 

R R R are selected from the same groups as R Rand Rrespectively and R and Rare the same as Rand R wherein if Rand Rare SOM M may represent a divalent pharmaceutically acceptable cation.

In a second aspect the use of the Conjugate of formula I is provided for the manufacture of a medicament for treating a proliferative disease or autoimmune disease. In a related third aspect the use of the Conjugate of formula I is provided for the treatment of a proliferative disease or an autoimmune disease.

In another aspect there is provided the use of a Conjugate of formula I to provide a PBD dimer or a salt or solvate thereof at a target location.

One of ordinary skill in the art is readily able to determine whether or not a candidate conjugate treats a proliferative condition for any particular cell type. For example assays which may conveniently be used to assess the activity offered by a particular compound are described in the examples below.

The term proliferative disease pertains to an unwanted or uncontrolled cellular proliferation of excessive or abnormal cells which is undesired such as neoplastic or hyperplastic growth whether in vitro or in vivo.

Examples of proliferative conditions include but are not limited to benign pre malignant and malignant cellular proliferation including but not limited to neoplasms and tumours e.g. histocytoma glioma astrocyoma osteoma cancers e.g. lung cancer small cell lung cancer gastrointestinal cancer bowel cancer colon cancer breast carinoma ovarian carcinoma prostate cancer testicular cancer liver cancer kidney cancer bladder cancer pancreatic cancer brain cancer sarcoma osteosarcoma Kaposi s sarcoma melanoma leukemias psoriasis bone diseases fibroproliferative disorders e.g. of connective tissues and atherosclerosis. Other cancers of interest include but are not limited to haematological malignancies such as leukemias and lymphomas such as non Hodgkin lymphoma and subtypes such as DLBCL marginal zone mantle zone and follicular Hodgkin lymphoma AML and other cancers of B or T cell origin.

Examples of autoimmune disease include the following rheumatoid arthritis autoimmune demyelinative diseases e.g. multiple sclerosis allergic encephalomyelitis psoriatic arthritis endocrine ophthalmopathy uveoretinitis systemic lupus erythematosus myasthenia gravis Graves disease glomerulonephritis autoimmune hepatological disorder inflammatory bowel disease e.g. Crohn s disease anaphylaxis allergic reaction Sj gren s syndrome type I diabetes mellitus primary biliary cirrhosis Wegener s granulomatosis fibromyalgia polymyositis dermatomyositis multiple endocrine failure Schmidt s syndrome autoimmune uveitis Addison s disease adrenalitis thyroiditis Hashimoto s thyroiditis autoimmune thyroid disease pernicious anemia gastric atrophy chronic hepatitis lupoid hepatitis atherosclerosis subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus hypoparathyroidism Dressler s syndrome autoimmune thrombocytopenia idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura hemolytic anemia pemphigus vulgaris pemphigus dermatitis herpetiformis alopecia arcata pemphigoid scleroderma progressive systemic sclerosis CREST syndrome calcinosis Raynaud s phenomenon esophageal dysmotility sclerodactyly and telangiectasia male and female autoimmune infertility ankylosing spondolytis ulcerative colitis mixed connective tissue disease polyarteritis nedosa systemic necrotizing vasculitis atopic dermatitis atopic rhinitis Goodpasture s syndrome Chagas disease sarcoidosis rheumatic fever asthma recurrent abortion anti phospholipid syndrome farmer s lung erythema multiforme post cardiotomy syndrome Cushing s syndrome autoimmune chronic active hepatitis bird fancier s lung toxic epidermal necrolysis Alport s syndrome alveolitis allergic alveolitis fibrosing alveolitis interstitial lung disease erythema nodosum pyoderma gangrenosum transfusion reaction Takayasu s arteritis polymyalgia rheumatica temporal arteritis schistosomiasis giant cell arteritis ascariasis aspergillosis Sampter s syndrome eczema lymphomatoid granulomatosis Behcet s disease Caplan s syndrome Kawasaki s disease dengue encephalomyelitis endocarditis endomyocardial fibrosis endophthalmitis erythema elevatum et diutinum psoriasis erythroblastosis fetalis eosinophilic faciitis Shulman s syndrome Felty s syndrome filariasis cyclitis chronic cyclitis heterochronic cyclitis Fuch s cyclitis IgA nephropathy Henoch Schonlein purpura graft versus host disease transplantation rejection cardiomyopathy Eaton Lambert syndrome relapsing polychondritis cryoglobulinemia Waldenstrom s macroglobulemia Evan s syndrome and autoimmune gonadal failure.

In some embodiments the autoimmune disease is a disorder of B lymphocytes e.g. systemic lupus erythematosus Goodpasture s syndrome rheumatoid arthritis and type I diabetes Th1 lymphocytes e.g. rheumatoid arthritis multiple sclerosis psoriasis Sj gren s syndrome Hashimoto s thyroiditis Graves disease primary biliary cirrhosis Wegener s granulomatosis tuberculosis or graft versus host disease or Th2 lymphocytes e.g. atopic dermatitis systemic lupus erythematosus atopic asthma rhinoconjunctivitis allergic rhinitis Omenn s syndrome systemic sclerosis or chronic graft versus host disease . Generally disorders involving dendritic cells involve disorders of Th1 lymphocytes or Th2 lymphocytes. In some embodiments the autoimmune disorder is a T cell mediated immunological disorder.

The dimeric PBD compounds for use in the present invention are made by different strategies to those previously employed in making symmetrical dimeric PBD compounds. In particular the present inventors have developed a method which involves adding each C2 aryl substituent to a symmetrical PBD dimer core in separate method steps.

Accordingly a sixth aspect of the present invention provides a method of making a Conjugate of formula I comprising at least one of the method steps described herein.

When a trade name is used herein reference to the trade name also refers to the product formulation the generic drug and the active pharmaceutical ingredient s of the trade name product unless otherwise indicated by context.

The terms binding agent and targeting agent as used herein refer to a molecule e.g. protein polypeptide or peptide that specifically binds to a target molecule. Examples can include a full length antibody an antigen binding fragment of a full length antibody other agent protein polypeptide or peptide that includes an antibody heavy and or light chain variable region that specifically bind to the target molecule or an Fc fusion protein comprising an extracellular domain of a protein peptide polypeptide that binds to the target molecule and that is joined to an Fc region domain or portion thereof of an antibody.

The terms specifically binds and specific binding refer to the binding of an antibody or other protein polypeptide or peptide to a predetermined molecule e.g. an antigen . Typically the antibody or other molecule binds with an affinity of at least about 1 10M and binds to the predetermined molecule with an affinity that is at least two fold greater than its affinity for binding to a non specific molecule e.g. BSA casein other than the predetermined molecule or a closely related molecule.

Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable monovalent and divalent cations are discussed in Berge et al. 66 1 19 1977 which is incorporated herein by reference.

Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable monovalent inorganic cations include but are not limited to alkali metal ions such as Na and K. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable divalent inorganic cations include but are not limited to alkaline earth cations such as Ca and Mg. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable organic cations include but are not limited to ammonium ion i.e. NH and substituted ammonium ions e.g. NHR NHR NHR NR . Examples of some suitable substituted ammonium ions are those derived from ethylamine diethylamine dicyclohexylamine triethylamine butylamine ethylenediamine ethanolamine diethanolamine piperazine benzylamine phenylbenzylamine choline meglumine and tromethamine as well as amino acids such as lysine and arginine. An example of a common quaternary ammonium ion is N CH .

The phrase optionally substituted as used herein pertains to a parent group which may be unsubstituted or which may be substituted.

Unless otherwise specified the term substituted as used herein pertains to a parent group which bears one or more substituents. The term substituent is used herein in the conventional sense and refers to a chemical moiety which is covalently attached to or if appropriate fused to a parent group. A wide variety of substituents are well known and methods for their formation and introduction into a variety of parent groups are also well known.

Calkyl The term Calkyl as used herein pertains to a monovalent moiety obtained by removing a hydrogen atom from a carbon atom of a hydrocarbon compound having from 1 to 12 carbon atoms which may be aliphatic or alicyclic and which may be saturated or unsaturated e.g. partially unsaturated fully unsaturated . Thus the term alkyl includes the sub classes alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl etc. discussed below.

Examples of saturated alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl C ethyl C propyl C butyl C pentyl C hexyl C and heptyl C .

Examples of saturated linear alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl C ethyl C n propyl C n butyl C n pentyl amyl C n hexyl C and n heptyl C .

Examples of saturated branched alkyl groups include iso propyl C iso butyl C sec butyl C tert butyl C iso pentyl C and neo pentyl C .

CAlkenyl The term Calkenyl as used herein pertains to an alkyl group having one or more carbon carbon double bonds.

Examples of unsaturated alkenyl groups include but are not limited to ethenyl vinyl CH CH 1 propenyl CH CH CH 2 propenyl allyl CH CH CH isopropenyl 1 methylvinyl C CH CH butenyl C pentenyl C and hexenyl C .

Calkynyl The term Calkynyl as used herein pertains to an alkyl group having one or more carbon carbon triple bonds.

Examples of unsaturated alkynyl groups include but are not limited to ethynyl C CH and 2 propynyl propargyl CH C CH .

Ccycloalkyl The term Ccycloalkyl as used herein pertains to an alkyl group which is also a cyclyl group that is a monovalent moiety obtained by removing a hydrogen atom from an alicyclic ring atom of a cyclic hydrocarbon carbocyclic compound which moiety has from 3 to 7 carbon atoms including from 3 to 7 ring atoms.

cyclopropane C cyclobutane C cyclopentane C cyclohexane C cycloheptane C methylcyclopropane C dimethylcyclopropane C methylcyclobutane C dimethylcyclobutane C methylcyclopentane C dimethylcyclopentane C and methylcyclohexane C 

cyclopropene C cyclobutene C cyclopentene C cyclohexene C methylcyclopropene C dimethylcyclopropene C methylcyclobutene C dimethylcyclobutene C methylcyclopentene C dimethylcyclopentene C and methylcyclohexene C and

Cheterocyclyl The term Cheterocyclyl as used herein pertains to a monovalent moiety obtained by removing a hydrogen atom from a ring atom of a heterocyclic compound which moiety has from 3 to 20 ring atoms of which from 1 to 10 are ring heteroatoms. Preferably each ring has from 3 to 7 ring atoms of which from 1 to 4 are ring heteroatoms.

In this context the prefixes e.g. C C C etc. denote the number of ring atoms or range of number of ring atoms whether carbon atoms or heteroatoms. For example the term Cheterocyclyl as used herein pertains to a heterocyclyl group having 5 or 6 ring atoms.

N aziridine C azetidine C pyrrolidine tetrahydropyrrole C pyrroline e.g. 3 pyrroline 2 5 dihydropyrrole C 2H pyrrole or 3H pyrrole isopyrrole isoazole C piperidine C dihydropyridine C tetrahydropyridine C azepine C 

O oxirane C oxetane C oxolane tetrahydrofuran C oxole dihydrofuran C oxane tetrahydropyran C dihydropyran C pyran C oxepin C 

N imidazolidine C pyrazolidine diazolidine C imidazoline C pyrazoline dihydropyrazole C piperazine C 

NO tetrahydrooxazole C dihydrooxazole C tetrahydroisoxazole C dihydroisoxazole C morpholine C tetrahydrooxazine C dihydrooxazine C oxazine C 

Examples of substituted monocyclic heterocyclyl groups include those derived from saccharides in cyclic form for example furanoses C such as arabinofuranose lyxofuranose ribofuranose and xylofuranse and pyranoses C such as allopyranose altropyranose glucopyranose mannopyranose gulopyranose idopyranose galactopyranose and talopyranose.

Caryl The term Caryl as used herein pertains to a monovalent moiety obtained by removing a hydrogen atom from an aromatic ring atom of an aromatic compound which moiety has from 3 to 20 ring atoms. Preferably each ring has from 5 to 7 ring atoms.

In this context the prefixes e.g. C C C etc. denote the number of ring atoms or range of number of ring atoms whether carbon atoms or heteroatoms. For example the term Caryl as used herein pertains to an aryl group having 5 or 6 ring atoms.

Examples of carboaryl groups include but are not limited to those derived from benzene i.e. phenyl C naphthalene C azulene C anthracene C phenanthrene C naphthacene C and pyrene C .

Examples of aryl groups which comprise fused rings at least one of which is an aromatic ring include but are not limited to groups derived from indane e.g. 2 3 dihydro 1H indene C indene C isoindene C tetraline 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthalene C acenaphthene C fluorene C phenalene C acephenanthrene C and aceanthrene C .

Alternatively the ring atoms may include one or more heteroatoms as in heteroaryl groups . Examples of monocyclic heteroaryl groups include but are not limited to those derived from 

N imidazole 1 3 diazole C pyrazole 1 2 diazole C pyridazine 1 2 diazine C pyrimidine 1 3 diazine C e.g. cytosine thymine uracil pyrazine 1 4 diazine C N triazole C triazine C and 

C with 2 fused rings derived from chromene O isochromene O chroman O isochroman O benzodioxan O quinoline N isoquinoline N quinolizine N benzoxazine NO benzodiazine N pyridopyridine N quinoxaline N quinazoline N cinnoline N phthalazine N naphthyridine N pteridine N 

C with 3 fused rings derived from carbazole N dibenzofuran O dibenzothiophene S carboline N perimidine N pyridoindole N and 

C with 3 fused rings derived from acridine N xanthene O thioxanthene S oxanthrene O phenoxathiin OS phenazine N phenoxazine NO phenothiazine NS thianthrene S phenanthridine N phenanthroline N phenazine N .

The above groups whether alone or part of another substituent may themselves optionally be substituted with one or more groups selected from themselves and the additional substituents listed below.

Ether OR wherein R is an ether substituent for example a Calkyl group also referred to as a Calkoxy group discussed below a Cheterocyclyl group also referred to as a Cheterocyclyloxy group or a Caryl group also referred to as a Caryloxy group preferably a Calkyl group.

Alkoxy OR wherein R is an alkyl group for example a Calkyl group. Examples of Calkoxy groups include but are not limited to OMe methoxy OEt ethoxy O nPr n propoxy O iPr isopropoxy O nBu n butoxy O sBu sec butoxy O iBu isobutoxy and O tBu tert butoxy .

Acetal CH OR OR wherein Rand Rare independently acetal substituents for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group or in the case of a cyclic acetal group Rand R taken together with the two oxygen atoms to which they are attached and the carbon atoms to which they are attached form a heterocyclic ring having from 4 to 8 ring atoms. Examples of acetal groups include but are not limited to CH OMe CH OEt and CH OMe OEt .

Hemiacetal CH OH OR wherein Ris a hemiacetal substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group. Examples of hemiacetal groups include but are not limited to CH OH OMe and CH OH OEt .

Ketal CR OR OR where Rand Rare as defined for acetals and R is a ketal substituent other than hydrogen for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group. Examples ketal groups include but are not limited to C Me OMe C Me OEt C Me OMe OEt C Et OMe C Et OEt and C Et OMe OEt .

Hemiketal CR OH OR where Ris as defined for hemiacetals and R is a hemiketal substituent other than hydrogen for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group. Examples of hemiacetal groups include but are not limited to C Me OH OMe C Et OH OMe C Me OH OEt and C Et OH OEt .

Imino imine NR wherein R is an imino substituent for example hydrogen Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably hydrogen or a Calkyl group. Examples of ester groups include but are not limited to NH NMe NEt and NPh.

Acyl keto C O R wherein R is an acyl substituent for example a Calkyl group also referred to as Calkylacyl or Calkanoyl a Cheterocyclyl group also referred to as Cheterocyclylacyl or a Caryl group also referred to as Carylacyl preferably a Calkyl group. Examples of acyl groups include but are not limited to C O CH acetyl C O CHCH propionyl C O C CH t butyryl and C O Ph benzoyl phenone .

Ester carboxylate carboxylic acid ester oxycarbonyl C O OR wherein R is an ester substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group. Examples of ester groups include but are not limited to C O OCH C O OCHCH C O OC CH and C O OPh.

Acyloxy reverse ester OC O R wherein R is an acyloxy substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group. Examples of acyloxy groups include but are not limited to OC O CH acetoxy OC O CHCH OC O C CH OC O Ph and OC O CHPh.

Oxycarboyloxy OC O OR wherein R is an ester substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group. Examples of ester groups include but are not limited to OC O OCH OC O OCHCH OC O OC CH and OC O OPh.

Amino NRR wherein Rand Rare independently amino substituents for example hydrogen a Calkyl group also referred to as Calkylamino or di Calkylamino a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably H or a Calkyl group or in the case of a cyclic amino group Rand R taken together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form a heterocyclic ring having from 4 to 8 ring atoms. Amino groups may be primary NH secondary NHR or tertiary NHRR and in cationic form may be quaternary NRRR . Examples of amino groups include but are not limited to NH NHCH NHC CH N CH N CHCH and NHPh. Examples of cyclic amino groups include but are not limited to aziridino azetidino pyrrolidino piperidino piperazino morpholino and thiomorpholino.

Amido carbamoyl carbamyl aminocarbonyl carboxamide C O NRR wherein Rand Rare independently amino substituents as defined for amino groups. Examples of amido groups include but are not limited to C O NH C O NHCH C O N CH C O NHCHCH and C O N CHCH as well as amido groups in which Rand R together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form a heterocyclic structure as in for example piperidinocarbonyl morpholinocarbonyl thiomorpholinocarbonyl and piperazinocarbonyl.

Thioamido thiocarbamyl C S NRR wherein Rand Rare independently amino substituents as defined for amino groups. Examples of amido groups include but are not limited to C S NH C S NHCH C S N CH and C S NHCHCH.

Acylamido acylamino NRC O R wherein Ris an amide substituent for example hydrogen a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably hydrogen or a Calkyl group and Ris an acyl substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably hydrogen or a Calkyl group. Examples of acylamide groups include but are not limited to NHC O CH NHC O CHCH and NHC O Ph. Rand Rmay together form a cyclic structure as in for example succinimidyl maleimidyl and phthalimidyl 

Aminocarbonyloxy OC O NRR wherein Rand Rare independently amino substituents as defined for amino groups. Examples of aminocarbonyloxy groups include but are not limited to OC O NH OC O NHMe OC O NMe and OC O NEt.

Ureido N R CONRRwherein Rand Rare independently amino substituents as defined for amino groups and Ris a ureido substituent for example hydrogen a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably hydrogen or a calkyl group. Examples of ureido groups include but are not limited to NHCONH NHCONHMe NHCONHEt NHCONMe NHCONEt NMeCONH NMeCONHMe NMeCONHEt NMeCONMe and NMeCONEt.

Imino NR wherein R is an imino substituent for example for example hydrogen a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably H or a Calkyl group. Examples of imino groups include but are not limited to NH NMe and NEt.

Amidine amidino C NR NR wherein each R is an amidine substituent for example hydrogen a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably H or a Calkyl group. Examples of amidine groups include but are not limited to C NH NH C NH NMe and C NMe NMe.

Thioether sulfide SR wherein R is a thioether substituent for example a Calkyl group also referred to as a Calkylthio group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group. Examples of Calkylthio groups include but are not limited to SCHand SCHCH.

Disulfide SS R wherein R is a disulfide substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group also referred to herein as Calkyl disulfide . Examples of Calkyl disulfide groups include but are not limited to SSCHand SSCHCH.

Sulfine sulfinyl sulfoxide S O R wherein R is a sulfine substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group. Examples of sulfine groups include but are not limited to S O CHand S O CHCH.

Sulfone sulfonyl S O R wherein R is a sulfone substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group including for example a fluorinated or perfluorinated Calkyl group. Examples of sulfone groups include but are not limited to S O CH methanesulfonyl mesyl S O CF triflyl S O CHCH esyl S O CF nonaflyl S O CHCF tresyl S O CHCHNH tauryl S O Ph phenylsulfonyl besyl 4 methylphenylsulfonyl tosyl 4 chlorophenylsulfonyl closyl 4 bromophenylsulfonyl brosyl 4 nitrophenyl nosyl 2 naphthalenesulfonate napsyl and 5 dimethylamino naphthalen 1 ylsulfonate dansyl .

Sulfinate sulfinic acid ester S O OR wherein R is a sulfinate substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group. Examples of sulfinate groups include but are not limited to S O OCH methoxysulfinyl methyl sulfinate and S O OCHCH ethoxysulfinyl ethyl sulfinate .

Sulfonate sulfonic acid ester S O OR wherein R is a sulfonate substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group. Examples of sulfonate groups include but are not limited to S O OCH methoxysulfonyl methyl sulfonate and S O OCHCH ethoxysulfonyl ethyl sulfonate .

Sulfinyloxy OS O R wherein R is a sulfinyloxy substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group. Examples of sulfinyloxy groups include but are not limited to OS O CHand OS O CHCH.

Sulfonyloxy OS O R wherein R is a sulfonyloxy substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group.

Examples of sulfonyloxy groups include but are not limited to OS O CH mesylate and OS O CHCH esylate .

Sulfate OS O OR wherein R is a sulfate substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group. Examples of sulfate groups include but are not limited to OS O OCHand SO O OCHCH.

Sulfamyl sulfamoyl sulfinic acid amide sulfinamide S O NRR wherein Rand Rare independently amino substituents as defined for amino groups. Examples of sulfamyl groups include but are not limited to S O NH S O NH CH S O N CH S O NH CHCH S O N CHCH and S O NHPh.

Sulfonamido sulfinamoyl sulfonic acid amide sulfonamide S O NRR wherein Rand Rare independently amino substituents as defined for amino groups. Examples of sulfonamido groups include but are not limited to S O NH S O NH CH S O N CH S O NH CHCH S O N CHCH and S O NHPh.

Sulfamino NRS O OH wherein Ris an amino substituent as defined for amino groups. Examples of sulfamino groups include but are not limited to NHS O OH and N CH S O OH.

Sulfonamino NRS O R wherein Ris an amino substituent as defined for amino groups and R is a sulfonamino substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group. Examples of sulfonamino groups include but are not limited to NHS O CHand N CH S O CH.

Sulfinamino NRS O R wherein Ris an amino substituent as defined for amino groups and R is a sulfinamino substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group. Examples of sulfinamino groups include but are not limited to NHS O CHand N CH S O CH.

Phosphino phosphine PR wherein R is a phosphino substituent for example H a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably H a Calkyl group or a Caryl group. Examples of phosphino groups include but are not limited to PH P CH P CHCH P t Bu and P PH .

Phosphinyl phosphine oxide P O R wherein R is a phosphinyl substituent for example a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably a Calkyl group or a Caryl group. Examples of phosphinyl groups include but are not limited to P O CH P O CHCH P O t Bu and P O Ph .

Phosphonate phosphono ester P O OR where R is a phosphonate substituent for example H a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably H a Calkyl group or a Caryl group. Examples of phosphonate groups include but are not limited to P O OCH P O OCHCH P O O t Bu and P O OPh .

Phosphate phosphonooxy ester OP O OR where R is a phosphate substituent for example H a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably H a Calkyl group or a Caryl group. Examples of phosphate groups include but are not limited to OP O OCH OP O OCHCH OP O O t Bu and OP O OPh .

Phosphite OP OR where R is a phosphite substituent for example H a Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably H a Calkyl group or a Caryl group. Examples of phosphite groups include but are not limited to OP OCH OP OCHCH OP O t Bu and OP OPh .

Phosphoramidite OP OR NR where Rand Rare phosphoramidite substituents for example H a optionally substituted Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably H a Calkyl group or a Caryl group. Examples of phosphoramidite groups include but are not limited to OP OCHCH N CH OP OCHCH N i Pr and OP OCHCHCN N i Pr .

Phosphoramidate OP O OR NR where Rand Rare phosphoramidate substituents for example H a optionally substituted Calkyl group a Cheterocyclyl group or a Caryl group preferably H a Calkyl group or a Caryl group. Examples of phosphoramidate groups include but are not limited to OP O OCHCH N CH OP O OCHCH N i Pr and OP O OCHCHCN N i Pr .

Calkylene The term Calkylene as used herein pertains to a bidentate moiety obtained by removing two hydrogen atoms either both from the same carbon atom or one from each of two different carbon atoms of a hydrocarbon compound having from 3 to 12 carbon atoms unless otherwise specified which may be aliphatic or alicyclic and which may be saturated partially unsaturated or fully unsaturated. Thus the term alkylene includes the sub classes alkenylene alkynylene cycloalkylene etc. discussed below.

Examples of linear saturated Calkylene groups include but are not limited to CH where n is an integer from 3 to 12 for example CHCHCH propylene CHCHCHCH butylene CHCHCHCHCH pentylene and CHCHCHCH CHCHCH heptylene .

Examples of branched saturated Calkylene groups include but are not limited to CH CH CH CH CH CHCH CH CH CHCHCH CHCH CH CH CHCH CH CHCH CH CHCH CH CHCH CH and CHCH CHCH CH .

Examples of linear partially unsaturated Calkylene groups Calkenylene and alkynylene groups include but are not limited to CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH and CH . C C CH .

Examples of branched partially unsaturated Calkylene groups Calkenylene and alkynylene groups include but are not limited to C CH CH C CH CH CH CH CH CH CH and C C CH CH .

Examples of alicyclic saturated Calkylene groups Ccycloalkylenes include but are not limited to cyclopentylene e.g. cyclopent 1 3 ylene and cyclohexylene e.g. cyclohex 1 4 ylene .

Examples of alicyclic partially unsaturated Calkylene groups Ccycloalkylenes include but are not limited to cyclopentenylene e.g. 4 cyclopenten 1 3 ylene cyclohexenylene e.g. 2 cyclohexen 1 4 ylene 3 cyclohexen 1 2 ylene 2 5 cyclohexadien 1 4 ylene .

Oxygen protecting group the term oxygen protecting group refers to a moiety which masks a hydroxy group and these are well known in the art. A large number of suitable groups are described on pages 23 to 200 of Greene T. W. and Wuts G. M. Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis 3Edition John Wiley Sons Inc. 1999 which is incorporated herein by reference. Classes of particular interest include silyl ethers e.g. TMS TBDMS substituted methyl ethers e.g. THP and esters e.g. acetate .

Carbamate nitrogen protecting group the term carbamate nitrogen protecting group pertains to a moiety which masks the nitrogen in the imine bond and these are well known in the art. These groups have the following structure 

Hemi aminal nitrogen protecting group the term hemi aminal nitrogen protecting group pertains to a group having the following structure 

The present invention provides Conjugates comprising a PBD dimer connected to a Ligand unit via a Linker Unit. In one embodiment the Linker unit includes a Stretcher unit A a Specificity unit L and a Spacer unit L . The Linker unit is connected at one end to the Ligand unit and at the other end to the PBD dimer compound.

The drug loading is represented by p the number of drug molecules per Ligand unit e.g. an antibody . Drug loading may range from 1 to 20 Drug units D per Ligand unit e.g. Ab or mAb . For compositions p represents the average drug loading of the Conjugates in the composition and p ranges from 1 to 20.

In some embodiments p is from about 1 to about 8 Drug units per Ligand unit. In some embodiments p is 1. In some embodiments p is 2. In some embodiments p is from about 2 to about 8 Drug units per Ligand unit. In some embodiments p is from about 2 to about 6 2 to about 5 or 2 to about 4 Drug units per Ligand unit. In some embodiments p is about 2 about 4 about 6 or about 8 Drug units per Ligand unit.

The average number of Drugs units per Ligand unit in a preparation from a conjugation reaction may be characterized by conventional means such as mass spectroscopy ELISA assay and HPLC. The quantitative distribution of Conjugates in terms of p may also be determined. In some instances separation purification and characterization of homogeneous Conjugates where p is a certain value from Conjugates with other drug loadings may be achieved by means such as reverse phase HPLC or electrophoresis.

The following preferences may apply to all aspects of the invention as described above or may relate to a single aspect. The preferences may be combined together in any combination.

In one embodiment the Ligand unit L is a Cell Binding Agent CBA that specifically binds to a target molecule on the surface of a target cell. An exemplary formula is illustrated below 

In another embodiment the Ligand unit L is a Cell Binding Agent CBA that specifically binds to a target molecule on the surface of a target cell. An exemplary formula is illustrated below CBA AL L 

In the embodiments illustrated above Lcan be a cleavable Specificity unit and may be referred to as a trigger that when cleaved activates a self immolative group or self immolative groups L when a self immolative group s is present. When the Specificity unit Lis cleaved or the linkage i.e. the covalent bond between Land Lis cleaved the self immolative group releases the Drug unit D .

In another embodiment the Ligand unit L is a Cell Binding Agent CBA that specifically binds to a target molecule on the surface of a target cell. An exemplary formula is illustrated below 

In the various embodiments discussed herein the nature of Land Lcan vary widely. These groups are chosen on the basis of their characteristics which may be dictated in part by the conditions at the site to which the conjugate is delivered. Where the Specificity unit Lis cleavable the structure and or sequence of Lis selected such that it is cleaved by the action of enzymes present at the target site e.g. the target cell . Lunits that are cleavable by changes in pH e.g. acid or base labile temperature or upon irradiation e.g. photolabile may also be used. Lunits that are cleavable under reducing or oxidising conditions may also find use in the Conjugates.

In some embodiments Lmay comprise one amino acid or a contiguous sequence of amino acids. The amino acid sequence may be the target substrate for an enzyme.

In one embodiment Lis cleavable by the action of an enzyme. In one embodiment the enzyme is an esterase or a peptidase. For example Lmay be cleaved by a lysosomal protease such as a cathepsin.

In one embodiment Lis present and together with C O O forms a self immolative group or self immolative groups. In some embodiments C O O also is a self immolative group.

In one embodiment where Lis cleavable by the action of an enzyme and Lis present the enzyme cleaves the bond between Land L whereby the self immolative group s release the Drug unit.

An amino group of Lthat connects to Lmay be the N terminus of an amino acid or may be derived from an amino group of an amino acid side chain for example a lysine amino acid side chain.

A carboxyl group of Lthat connects to Lmay be the C terminus of an amino acid or may be derived from a carboxyl group of an amino acid side chain for example a glutamic acid amino acid side chain.

A hydroxy group of Lthat connects to Lmay be derived from a hydroxy group of an amino acid side chain for example a serine amino acid side chain.

Where Y is NH and n is 0 the self immolative group may be referred to as a p aminobenzylcarbonyl linker PABC .

The self immolative group will allow for release of the Drug unit i.e. the asymmetric PBD when a remote site in the linker is activated proceeding along the lines shown below for n 0 

In one embodiment Lcomprises a dipeptide. The amino acids in the dipeptide may be any combination of natural amino acids and non natural amino acids. In some embodiments the dipeptide comprises natural amino acids. Where the linker is a cathepsin labile linker the dipeptide is the site of action for cathepsin mediated cleavage. The dipeptide then is a recognition site for cathepsin.

Other dipeptide combinations may be used including those described by Dubowchik et al. which is incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment the amino acid side chain is chemically protected where appropriate. The side chain protecting group may be a group as discussed below. Protected amino acid sequences are cleavable by enzymes. For example a dipeptide sequence comprising a Boc side chain protected Lys residue is cleavable by cathepsin.

Protecting groups for the side chains of amino acids are well known in the art and are described in the Novabiochem Catalog. Additional protecting group strategies are set out in Protective groups in Organic Synthesis Greene and Wuts.

Possible side chain protecting groups are shown below for those amino acids having reactive side chain functionality 

In one embodiment X is connected indirectly to the Drug unit. In such an embodiment the Spacer unit Lis present.

In one embodiment the dipeptide is used in combination with a self immolative group s the Spacer unit . The self immolative group s may be connected to X .

Where a self immolative group is present X is connected directly to the self immolative group. In one embodiment X is connected to the group Y of the self immolative group. Preferably the group X CO is connected to Y where Y is NH.

 X is connected directly to A. In one embodiment X is connected directly to A. Preferably the group NH X the amino terminus of X is connected to A. Amay comprise the functionality CO thereby to form an amide link with X .

In one embodiment Land Ltogether with OC O comprise the group X X PABC . The PABC group is connected directly to the Drug unit. In one example the self immolative group and the dipeptide together form the group Phe Lys PABC which is illustrated below 

Alternatively the self immolative group and the dipeptide together form the group Val Ala PABC which is illustrated below 

E is selected such that the group is susceptible to cleavage e.g. by light or by the action of an enzyme. E may be NOor glucuronic acid e.g. glucuronic acid . The former may be susceptible to the action of a nitroreductase the latter to the action of a glucuronidase.

In some further embodiments Y is a functional group as set forth above the functional group is linked to an amino acid and the amino acid is linked to the Stretcher unit A. In some embodiments amino acid is alanine. In such an embodiment the amino acid is equivalently considered part of the Stretcher unit.

In one embodiment the connection between the Ligand unit and Ais through a thiol residue of the Ligand unit and a maleimide group of A.

In each of the embodiments above an alternative functionality may be used in place of the malemide derived group shown below 

In one embodiment the maleimide derived group is replaced with a group which optionally together with a Ligand unit e.g. a Cell Binding Agent is selected from 

In one embodiment the maleimide derived group is replaced with a group which optionally together with the Ligand unit is selected from 

In one embodiment the Stretcher unit Ais present the Specificity unit L is present and Spacer unit Lis absent. Thus Land the Drug unit are directly connected via a bond. Equivalently in this embodiment Lis a bond.

In one embodiment Lcomprises a dipeptide and one end of the dipeptide is linked to D. As described above the amino acids in the dipeptide may be any combination of natural amino acids and non natural amino acids. In some embodiments the dipeptide comprises natural amino acids. Where the linker is a cathepsin labile linker the dipeptide is the site of action for cathepsin mediated cleavage. The dipeptide then is a recognition site for cathepsin.

In other embodiments Linker Drug compounds are provided for conjugation to a Ligand unit. In one embodiment the Linker Drug compounds are designed for connection to a Cell Binding Agent.

Land Lare as defined above. References to connection to Acan be construed here as referring to a connection to G.

In one embodiment where Lcomprises an amino acid the side chain of that amino acid may be protected. Any suitable protecting group may be used. In one embodiment the side chain protecting groups are removable with other protecting groups in the compound where present. In other embodiments the protecting groups may be orthogonal to other protecting groups in the molecule where present.

Suitable protecting groups for amino acid side chains include those groups described in the Novabiochem Catalog 2006 2007. Protecting groups for use in a cathepsin labile linker are also discussed in Dubowchik et al.

In certain embodiments of the invention the group Lincludes a Lys amino acid residue. The side chain of this amino acid may be protected with a Boc or Alloc protected group. A Boc protecting group is most preferred.

The functional group Gforms a connecting group upon reaction with a Ligand unit e.g. a cell binding agent.

In one embodiment the functional group Gis or comprises an amino carboxylic acid hydroxy thiol or maleimide group for reaction with an appropriate group on the Ligand unit. In a preferred embodiment Gcomprises a maleimide group.

In one embodiment the group Gis an alkyl maleimide group. This group is suitable for reaction with thiol groups particularly cysteine thiol groups present in the cell binding agent for example present in an antibody.

In each of the embodiments above an alternative functionality may be used in place of the malemide group shown below 

In one embodiment where Lis present Gis NHor NHMe. Either group may be the N terminal of an Lamino acid sequence.

In one embodiment Lis present and Gis COOH. This group may be the C terminal of an Lamino acid sequence.

The group Gmay be convertable from one functional group to another. In one embodiment Lis present and Gis NH. This group is convertable to another group Gcomprising a maleimide group. For example the group NHmay be reacted with an acids or an activated acid e.g. N succinimide forms of those Ggroups comprising maleimide shown above.

The group Gmay therefore be converted to a functional group that is more appropriate for reaction with a Ligand unit.

As noted above in one embodiment Lis present and Gis NH NHMe COOH OH or SH. In a further embodiment these groups are provided in a chemically protected form. The chemically protected form is therefore a precursor to the linker that is provided with a functional group.

In one embodiment Gis NHin a chemically protected form. The group may be protected with a carbamate protecting group. The carbamate protecting group may be selected from the group consisting of 

In one embodiment the protecting group is the same as the carbamate protecting group of the capping group.

In one embodiment the protecting group is not the same as the carbamate protecting group of the capping group. In this embodiment it is preferred that the protecting group is removable under conditions that do not remove the carbamate protecting group of the capping group.

The chemical protecting group may be removed to provide a functional group to form a connection to a Ligand unit. Optionally this functional group may then be converted to another functional group as described above.

In one embodiment the active group is an amine. This amine is preferably the N terminal amine of a peptide and may be the N terminal amine of the preferred dipeptides of the invention.

The active group may be reacted to yield the functional group that is intended to form a connection to a Ligand unit.

In other embodiments the Linker unit is a precursor to the Linker unit having an active group. In this embodiment the Linker unit comprises the active group which is protected by way of a protecting group. The protecting group may be removed to provide the Linker unit having an active group.

Where the active group is an amine the protecting group may be an amine protecting group such as those described in Green and Wuts.

The protecting group is preferably orthogonal to other protecting groups where present in the Linker unit.

In one embodiment the protecting group is orthogonal to the capping group. Thus the active group protecting group is removable whilst retaining the capping group. In other embodiments the protecting group and the capping group is removable under the same conditions as those used to remove the capping group.

Other functional groups suitable for use in forming a connection between Land the Cell Binding Agent are described in WO 2005 082023.

The Ligand Unit may be of any kind and include a protein polypeptide peptide and a non peptidic agent that specifically binds to a target molecule. In some embodiments the Ligand unit may be a protein polypeptide or peptide. In some embodiments the Ligand unit may be a cyclic polypeptide. These Ligand units can include antibodies or a fragment of an antibody that contains at least one target molecule binding site lymphokines hormones growth factors or any other cell binding molecule or substance that can specifically bind to a target.

Examples of Ligand units include those agents described for use in WO 2007 085930 which is incorporated herein.

In some embodiments the Ligand unit is a Cell Binding Agent that binds to an extracellular target on a cell. Such a Cell Binding Agent can be a protein polypeptide peptide or a non peptidic agent. In some embodiments the Cell Binding Agent may be a protein polypeptide or peptide. In some embodiments the Cell Binding Agent may be a cyclic polypeptide. The Cell Binding Agent also may be antibody or an antigen binding fragment of an antibody. Thus in one embodiment the present invention provides an antibody drug conjugate ADC .

In one embodiment the antibody is a monoclonal antibody chimeric antibody humanized antibody fully human antibody or a single chain antibody. One embodiment the antibody is a fragment of one of these antibodies having biological activity. Examples of such fragments include Fab Fab F ab and Fv fragments.

Antibodies for use in the present invention include those antibodies described in WO 2005 082023 which is incorporated herein. Particularly preferred are those antibodies for tumour associated antigens. Examples of those antigens known in the art include but are not limited to those tumour associated antigens set out in WO 2005 082023. See for instance pages 41 55.

In some embodiments the conjugates are designed to target tumour cells via their cell surface antigens. The antigens may be cell surface antigens which are either over expressed or expressed at abnormal times or cell types. Preferably the target antigen is expressed only on proliferative cells preferably tumour cells however this is rarely observed in practice. As a result target antigens are usually selected on the basis of differential expression between proliferative and healthy tissue.

The Ligand unit is connected to the Linker unit. In one embodiment the Ligand unit is connected to A where present of the Linker unit.

In one embodiment the connection between the Ligand unit and the Linker unit is through a thioether bond.

In one embodiment the connection between the Ligand unit and the Linker unit is through a disulfide bond.

In one embodiment the connection between the Ligand unit and the Linker unit is through an amide bond.

In one embodiment the connection between the Ligand unit and the Linker unit is through an ester bond.

In one embodiment the connection between the Ligand unit and the Linker is formed between a thiol group of a cysteine residue of the Ligand unit and a maleimide group of the Linker unit.

The cysteine residues of the Ligand unit may be available for reaction with the functional group of the Linker unit to form a connection. In other embodiments for example where the Ligand unit is an antibody the thiol groups of the antibody may participate in interchain disulfide bonds. These interchain bonds may be converted to free thiol groups by e.g. treatment of the antibody with DTT prior to reaction with the functional group of the Linker unit.

In some embodiments the cysteine residue is an introduced into the heavy or light chain of an antibody. Positions for cysteine insertion by substitution in antibody heavy or light chains include those described in Published U.S. Application No. 2007 0092940 and International Patent Publication WO2008070593 which are incorporated herein.

The Conjugates of the present invention may be used in a method of therapy. Also provided is a method of treatment comprising administering to a subject in need of treatment a therapeutically effective amount of a Conjugate of formula I. The term therapeutically effective amount is an amount sufficient to show benefit to a patient. Such benefit may be at least amelioration of at least one symptom. The actual amount of a Conjugate administered and rate and time course of administration will depend on the nature and severity of what is being treated. Prescription of treatment e.g. decisions on dosage is within the responsibility of general practitioners and other medical doctors.

In some embodiments the amount of the Conjugate administered ranges from about 0.01 to about 10 mg kg per dose. In some embodiments the amount of the Conjugate administered ranges from about 0.01 to about 5 mg kg per dose. In some embodiments the amount of the Conjugate administered ranges from about 0.05 to about 5 mg kg per dose. In some embodiments the amount of the Conjugate administered ranges from about 0.1 to about 5 mg kg per dose. In some embodiments the amount of the Conjugate administered ranges from about 0.1 to about 4 mg kg per dose. In some embodiments the amount of the Conjugate administered ranges from about 0.05 to about 3 mg kg per dose.

In some embodiments the amount of the Conjugate administered ranges from about 0.1 to about 3 mg kg per dose. In some embodiments the amount of the Conjugate administered ranges from about 0.1 to about 2 mg kg per dose. In some embodiments the amount of the Conjugate administered ranges from about 0.01 to about 1 mg kg per dose.

A conjugate may be administered alone or in combination with other treatments either simultaneously or sequentially dependent upon the condition to be treated. Examples of treatments and therapies include but are not limited to chemotherapy the administration of active agents including e.g. drugs surgery and radiation therapy .

Pharmaceutical compositions according to the present invention and for use in accordance with the present invention may comprise in addition to the active ingredient i.e. a Conjugate of formula I a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient carrier buffer stabiliser or other materials well known to those skilled in the art. Such materials should be non toxic and should not interfere with the efficacy of the active ingredient. The precise nature of the carrier or other material will depend on the route of administration which may be oral or by injection e.g. cutaneous subcutaneous or intravenous.

Pharmaceutical compositions for oral administration may be in tablet capsule powder or liquid form. A tablet may comprise a solid carrier or an adjuvant. Liquid pharmaceutical compositions generally comprise a liquid carrier such as water petroleum animal or vegetable oils mineral oil or synthetic oil. Physiological saline solution dextrose or other saccharide solution or glycols such as ethylene glycol propylene glycol or polyethylene glycol may be included. A capsule may comprise a solid carrier such a gelatin.

For intravenous cutaneous or subcutaneous injection or injection at the site of affliction the active ingredient will be in the form of a parenterally acceptable aqueous solution which is pyrogen free and has suitable pH isotonicity and stability. Those of relevant skill in the art are well able to prepare suitable solutions using for example isotonic vehicles such as Sodium Chloride Injection Ringer s Injection Lactated Ringer s Injection. Preservatives stabilisers buffers antioxidants and or other additives may be included as required.

Unless otherwise specified included in the above are the well known ionic salt solvate and protected forms of these substituents. For example a reference to carboxylic acid COOH also includes the anionic carboxylate form COO a salt or solvate thereof as well as conventional protected forms. Similarly a reference to an amino group includes the protonated form NHRR a salt or solvate of the amino group for example a hydrochloride salt as well as conventional protected forms of an amino group. Similarly a reference to a hydroxyl group also includes the anionic form O a salt or solvate thereof as well as conventional protected forms.

It may be convenient or desirable to prepare purify and or handle a corresponding salt of the active compound the Conjugate for example a pharmaceutically acceptable salt. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts are discussed in Berge et al. 66 1 19 1977 .

For example if the compound is anionic or has a functional group which may be anionic e.g. COOH may be COO then a salt may be formed with a suitable cation. Examples of suitable inorganic cations include but are not limited to alkali metal ions such as Na and K alkaline earth cations such as Ca and Mg and other cations such as Al. Examples of suitable organic cations include but are not limited to ammonium ion i.e. NH and substituted ammonium ions e.g. NHR NHR NHR NR . Examples of some suitable substituted ammonium ions are those derived from ethylamine diethylamine dicyclohexylamine triethylamine butylamine ethylenediamine ethanolamine diethanolamine piperazine benzylamine phenylbenzylamine choline meglumine and tromethamine as well as amino acids such as lysine and arginine. An example of a common quaternary ammonium ion is N CH .

If the Conjugate is cationic or has a functional group which may be cationic e.g. NHmay be NH then a salt may be formed with a suitable anion. Examples of suitable inorganic anions include but are not limited to those derived from the following inorganic acids hydrochloric hydrobromic hydroiodic sulfuric sulfurous nitric nitrous phosphoric and phosphorous.

Examples of suitable organic anions include but are not limited to those derived from the following organic acids 2 acetyoxybenzoic acetic ascorbic aspartic benzoic camphorsulfonic cinnamic citric edetic ethanedisulfonic ethanesulfonic fumaric glucheptonic gluconic glutamic glycolic hydroxymaleic hydroxynaphthalene carboxylic isethionic lactic lactobionic lauric maleic malic methanesulfonic mucic oleic oxalic palmitic pamoic pantothenic phenylacetic phenylsulfonic propionic pyruvic salicylic stearic succinic sulfanilic tartaric toluenesulfonic and valeric. Examples of suitable polymeric organic anions include but are not limited to those derived from the following polymeric acids tannic acid carboxymethyl cellulose.

It may be convenient or desirable to prepare purify and or handle a corresponding solvate of the Conjugate s . The term solvate is used herein in the conventional sense to refer to a complex of solute e.g. active Conjugate salt of active Conjugate and solvent. If the solvent is water the solvate may be conveniently referred to as a hydrate for example a mono hydrate a di hydrate a tri hydrate etc.

The invention includes Conjugate where a solvent adds across the imine bond of the PBD moiety which is illustrated below for a PBD monomer where the solvent is water or an alcohol ROH where Ris Calkyl 

These forms can be called the carbinolamine and carbinolamine ether forms of the PBD. The balance of these equilibria depend on the conditions in which the compounds are found as well as the nature of the moiety itself.

Certain compounds may exist in one or more particular geometric optical enantiomeric diasteriomeric epimeric atropic stereoisomeric tautomeric conformational or anomeric forms including but not limited to cis and trans forms E and Z forms c t and r forms endo and exo forms R S and meso forms D and L forms d and I forms and forms keto enol and enolate forms syn and anti forms synclinal and anticlinal forms and forms axial and equatorial forms boat chair twist envelope and halfchair forms and combinations thereof hereinafter collectively referred to as isomers or isomeric forms .

Note that except as discussed below for tautomeric forms specifically excluded from the term isomers as used herein are structural or constitutional isomers i.e. isomers which differ in the connections between atoms rather than merely by the position of atoms in space . For example a reference to a methoxy group OCH is not to be construed as a reference to its structural isomer a hydroxymethyl group CHOH. Similarly a reference to ortho chlorophenyl is not to be construed as a reference to its structural isomer meta chlorophenyl. However a reference to a class of structures may well include structurally isomeric forms falling within that class e.g. Calkyl includes n propyl and iso propyl butyl includes n iso sec and tert butyl methoxyphenyl includes ortho meta and para methoxyphenyl .

The above exclusion does not pertain to tautomeric forms for example keto enol and enolate forms as in for example the following tautomeric pairs keto enol illustrated below imine enamine amide imino alcohol amidine amidine nitroso oxime thioketone enethiol N nitroso hyroxyazo and nitro aci nitro.

Note that specifically included in the term isomer are compounds with one or more isotopic substitutions. For example H may be in any isotopic form including H H D and H T C may be in any isotopic form including C C and C O may be in any isotopic form including O and O and the like.

Unless otherwise specified a reference to a particular compound or Conjugate includes all such isomeric forms including wholly or partially racemic and other mixtures thereof. Methods for the preparation e.g. asymmetric synthesis and separation e.g. fractional crystallisation and chromatographic means of such isomeric forms are either known in the art or are readily obtained by adapting the methods taught herein or known methods in a known manner.

The synthesis of PBD dimer compounds is extensively discussed in the following references which discussions are incorporated herein by reference 

The Conjugates of the present invention where Rand Rform a nitrogen carbon double bond between the nitrogen and carbon atoms to which they are bound can be synthesised from a compound of Compound formula 2 

The compound produced may be in its carbinolamine or carbinolamine ether form depending on the solvents used. For example if Protis Alloc and Protis an oxygen protecting group for synthesis then the deprotection is carried using palladium to remove the N10 protecting group followed by the elimination of the oxygen protecting group for synthesis. If Protis Troc and Protis an oxygen protecting group for synthesis then the deprotection is carried out using a Cd Pb couple to yield the compound of formula I . If Protis SEM or an analogous group and Protis an oxo group then the oxo group can be removed by reduction which leads to a protected carbinolamine intermediate which can then be treated to remove the SEM protecting group followed by the elimination of water. The reduction of the compound of Compound formula 2 can be accomplished by for example lithium tetraborohydride whilst a suitable means for removing the SEM protecting group is treatment with silica gel.

The couplings described above are usually carried out in the presence of a palladium catalyst for example Pd PPh Pd OCOCH PdCl or Pd dba . The coupling may be carried out under standard conditions or may also be carried out under microwave conditions.

The two coupling steps are usually carried out sequentially. They may be carried out with or without purification between the two steps. If no purification is carried out then the two steps may be carried out in the same reaction vessel. Purification is usually required after the second coupling step. Purification of the compound from the undesired by products may be carried out by column chromatography or ion exchange separation.

The synthesis of compounds of Compound formula 4 where Protis an oxo group and Protis SEM are described in detail in WO 00 12508 which is incorporated herein by reference. In particular reference is made to scheme 7 on page 24 where the above compound is designated as intermediate P. This method of synthesis is also described in WO 2004 043963.

The synthesis of compounds of Compound formula 4 where Protis a protected oxygen group for synthesis are described in WO 2005 085251 which synthesis is herein incorporated by reference.

Compounds of formula I where Rand Rare H and Rand R are SON can be synthesised from compounds of formula I where Rand Rform a nitrogen carbon double bond between the nitrogen and carbon atoms to which they are bound by the addition of the appropriate bisulphite salt or sulphinate salt followed by an appropriate purification step. Further methods are described in GB 2 053 894 which is herein incorporated by reference.

Nitrogen protecting groups for synthesis are well known in the art. In the present invention the protecting groups of particular interest are carbamate nitrogen protecting groups and hemi aminal nitrogen protecting groups.

Other possible groups are nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl e.g. 4 nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl and 2 phenylsulphonyl ethoxycarbonyl.

Protected oxygen group for synthesis are well known in the art. A large number of suitable oxygen protecting groups are described on pages 23 to 200 of Greene T. W. and Wuts G. M. Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis 3Edition John Wiley Sons Inc. 1999 which is incorporated herein by reference.

Classes of particular interest include silyl ethers methyl ethers alkyl ethers benzyl ethers esters acetates benzoates carbonates and sulfonates.

The following preferences may apply to all aspects of the invention as described above or may relate to a single aspect. The preferences may be combined together in any combination.

Ris preferably selected from H OH OR SH NH nitro and halo and is more preferably H or halo and most preferably is H.

Ris preferably selected from H OH OR SH SR NH NHR NRR and halo and more preferably independently selected from H OH and OR where R is preferably selected from optionally substituted Calkyl Cheterocyclyl and Caryl groups. R may be more preferably a Calkyl group which may or may not be substituted. A substituent of interest is a Caryl group e.g. phenyl . Particularly preferred substituents at the 7 positions are OMe and OCHPh.

A in Rmay be phenyl group or a Cheteroaryl group for example furanyl thiophenyl and pyridyl. In some embodiments A is preferably phenyl. In other embodiments A is preferably thiophenyl for example thiophen 2 yl and thiophen 3 yl.

X is a group selected from the list comprising O S C O O C O NH C O and N R wherein Ris selected from the group comprising H and Calkyl. X may preferably be O S C O O NH C O or NH and may more preferably be O S or NH and most preferably is NH .

Q X may be on any of the available ring atoms of the Caryl group but is preferably on a ring atom that is not adjacent the bond to the remainder of the compound i.e. it is preferably or to the bond to the remainder of the compound. Therefore where the Caryl group A is phenyl the substituent Q X is preferably in the meta or para positions and more preferably is in the para position. 1

In some embodiments Qis a single bond. In these embodiments Qis selected from a single bond and Z CH where Z is selected from a single bond O S and NH and is from 1 to 3. In some of these embodiments Qis a single bond. In other embodiments Qis Z CH . In these embodiments Z may be O or S and n may be 1 or n may be 2.

In some embodiments R2 may be A CH X and A X. In these embodiments X may be O S C O O C O and NH . In particularly preferred embodiments X may be NH .

Rmay be a Caryl group. A Caryl group may be a phenyl group or a Cheteroaryl group for example furanyl thiophenyl and pyridyl. In some embodiments Ris preferably phenyl. In other embodiments Ris preferably thiophenyl for example thiophen 2 yl and thiophen 3 yl.

Rmay be a Caryl for example a quinolinyl or isoquinolinyl group. The quinolinyl or isoquinolinyl group may be bound to the PBD core through any available ring position. For example the quinolinyl may be quinolin 2 yl quinolin 3 yl quinolin 4yl quinolin 5 yl quinolin 6 yl quinolin 7 yl and quinolin 8 yl. Of these quinolin 3 yl and quinolin 6 yl may be preferred. The isoquinolinyl may be isoquinolin 1 yl isoquinolin 3 yl isoquinolin 4yl isoquinolin 5 yl isoquinolin 6 yl isoquinolin 7 yl and isoquinolin 8 yl. Of these isoquinolin 3 yl and isoquinolin 6 yl may be preferred.

Rmay bear any number of substituent groups. It preferably bears from 1 to 3 substituent groups with 1 and 2 being more preferred and singly substituted groups being most preferred. The substituents may be any position.

Where Ris Caryl group a single substituent is preferably on a ring atom that is not adjacent the bond to the remainder of the compound i.e. it is preferably or to the bond to the remainder of the compound. Therefore where the Caryl group is phenyl the substituent is preferably in the meta or para positions and more preferably is in the para position.

Where Ris a Caryl group for example quinolinyl or isoquinolinyl it may bear any number of substituents at any position of the quinoline or isoquinoline rings. In some embodiments it bears one two or three substituents and these may be on either the proximal and distal rings or both if more than one substituent .

If a substituent on Ris ether it may in some embodiments be an alkoxy group for example a Calkoxy group e.g. methoxy ethoxy or it may in some embodiments be a Caryloxy group e.g. phenoxy pyridyloxy furanyloxy . The alkoxy group may itself be further substituted for example by an amino group e.g. dimethylamino .

If a substituent on Ris Cheterocyclyl it may in some embodiments be Cnitrogen containing heterocyclyl group e.g. morpholino thiomorpholino piperidinyl piperazinyl. These groups may be bound to the rest of the PBD moiety via the nitrogen atom. These groups may be further substituted for example by Calkyl groups. If the Cnitrogen containing heterocyclyl group is piperazinyl the said further substituent may be on the second nitrogen ring atom.

Particularly preferred substituents for Rinclude methoxy ethoxy fluoro chloro cyano bis oxy methylene methyl piperazinyl morpholino and methyl thiophenyl. Another particularly preferred substituent for Ris dimethylaminopropyloxy.

Particularly preferred substituted Rgroups include but are not limited to 4 methoxy phenyl 3 methoxyphenyl 4 ethoxy phenyl 3 ethoxy phenyl 4 fluoro phenyl 4 chloro phenyl 3 4 bisoxymethylene phenyl 4 methylthiophenyl 4 cyanophenyl 4 phenoxyphenyl quinolin 3 yl and quinolin 6 yl isoquinolin 3 yl and isoquinolin 6 yl 2 thienyl 2 furanyl methoxynaphthyl and naphthyl. Another possible substituted Rgroup is 4 nitrophenyl.

It is preferred that M and M are monovalent pharmaceutically acceptable cations and are more preferably Na.

Optical rotations were measured on an ADP 220 polarimeter Bellingham Stanley Ltd. and concentrations c are given in g 100 mL. Melting points were measured using a digital melting point apparatus Electrothermal . IR spectra were recorded on a Perkin Elmer Spectrum 1000 FT IR Spectrometer. H and C NMR spectra were acquired at 300 K using a Bruker Avance NMR spectrometer at 400 and 100 MHz respectively. Chemical shifts are reported relative to TMS 0.0 ppm and signals are designated as s singlet d doublet t triplet dt double triplet dd doublet of doublets ddd double doublet of doublets or m multiplet with coupling constants given in Hertz Hz . Mass spectroscopy MS data were collected using a Waters Micromass ZQ instrument coupled to a Waters 2695 HPLC with a Waters 2996 PDA. Waters Micromass ZQ parameters used were Capillary kV 3.38 Cone V 35 Extractor V 3.0 Source temperature C. 100 Desolvation Temperature C. 200 Cone flow rate L h 50 De solvation flow rate L h 250. High resolution mass spectroscopy HRMS data were recorded on a Waters Micromass QTOF Global in positive W mode using metal coated borosilicate glass tips to introduce the samples into the instrument. Thin Layer Chromatography TLC was performed on silica gel aluminium plates Merck 60 F and flash chromatography utilised silica gel Merck 60 230 400 mesh ASTM . Except for the HOBt NovaBiochem and solid supported reagents Argonaut all other chemicals and solvents were purchased from Sigma Aldrich and were used as supplied without further purification. Anhydrous solvents were prepared by distillation under a dry nitrogen atmosphere in the presence of an appropriate drying agent and were stored over 4 molecular sieves or sodium wire. Petroleum ether refers to the fraction boiling at 40 60 C.

Compound 1b was synthesised as described in WO 00 012508 compound 210 which is herein incorporated by reference.

General LC MS conditions The HPLC Waters Alliance 2695 was run using a mobile phase of water A formic acid 0.1 and acetonitrile B formic acid 0.1 . Gradient initial composition 5 B over 1.0 min then 5 B to 95 B within 3 min. The composition was held for 0.5 min at 95 B and then returned to 5 B in 0.3 minutes. Total gradient run time equals 5 min. Flow rate 3.0 mL min 400 L was split via a zero dead volume tee piece which passes into the mass spectrometer. Wavelength detection range 220 to 400 nm. Function type diode array 535 scans . Column Phenomenex Onyx Monolithic C18 50 4.60 mm

LC MS conditions specific for compounds protected by both a Troc and a TBDMs group Chromatographic separation of Troc and TBDMS protected compounds was performed on a Waters Alliance 2695 HPLC system utilizing a Onyx Monolitic reversed phase column 3 m particles 50 4.6 mm from Phenomenex Corp. Mobile phase A consisted of 5 acetonitrile 95 water containing 0.1 formic acid and mobile phase B consisted of 95 acetonitrile 5 water containing 0.1 formic acid. After 1 min at 5 B the proportion of B was raised to 95 B over the next 2.5 min and maintained at 95 B for a further 1 min before returning to 95 A in 10 s and re equilibration for a further 50 sec giving a total run time of 5.0 min. The flow rate was maintained at 3.0 mL min.

LC MS conditions specific for compound 33 LC was run on a Waters 2767 sample Manager coupled with a Waters 2996 photodiode array detector and a Waters ZQ single quadruple mass Spectrometer. The column used was Luna Phenyl Hexyl 150 4.60 mm 5 m Part no. 00E 4257 E0 Phenomenex . The mobile phases employed were 

Mass Spectrometry was carried out in positive ion mode and SIR selective ion monitor and the ion monitored was m z 727.2.

Method A A catalytic amount of DMF 2 drops was added to a stirred solution of the nitro acid 1a 1.0 g 2.15 mmol and oxalyl chloride 0.95 mL 1.36 g 10.7 mmol in dry THF 20 mL . The reaction mixture was allowed to stir for 16 hours at room temperature and the solvent was removed by evaporation in vacuo. The resulting residue was re dissolved in dry THF 20 mL and the acid chloride solution was added dropwise to a stirred mixture of 2S 4R methyl 4 hydroxypyrrolidine 2 carboxylate hydrochloride 859 mg 4.73 mmol and TEA 6.6 mL 4.79 g 47.3 mmol in THF 10 mL at 30 C. dry ice ethylene glycol under a nitrogen atmosphere. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for a further 3 hours after which time TLC 95 5 v v CHCl MeOH and LC MS 2.45 min ES m z relative intensity 721 M H 20 revealed formation of product. Excess THF was removed by rotary evaporation and the resulting residue was dissolved in DCM 50 mL . The organic layer was washed with 1N HCl 2 15 mL saturated NaHCO 2 15 mL HO 20 mL brine 30 mL and dried MgSO . Filtration and evaporation of the solvent gave the crude product as a dark coloured oil. Purification by flash chromatography gradient elution 100 CHClto 96 4 v v CHCl MeOH isolated the pure amide 2a as an orange coloured glass 840 mg 54 .

Method B Oxalyl chloride 9.75 mL 14.2 g 111 mmol was added to a stirred suspension of the nitro acid 1a 17.3 g 37.1 mmol and DMF 2 mL in anhydrous DCM 200 mL . Following initial effervescence the reaction suspension became a solution and the mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 16 hours. Conversion to the acid chloride was confirmed by treating a sample of the reaction mixture with MeOH and the resulting bis methyl ester was observed by LC MS. The majority of solvent was removed by evaporation in vacuo the resulting concentrated solution was re dissolved in a minimum amount of dry DCM and triturated with diethyl ether. The resulting yellow precipitate was collected by filtration washed with cold diethyl ether and dried for 1 hour in a vacuum oven at 40 C. The solid acid chloride was added portionwise over a period of 25 minutes to a stirred suspension of 2S 4R methyl 4 hydroxypyrrolidine 2 carboxylate hydrochloride 15.2 g 84.0 mmol and TEA 25.7 mL 18.7 g 185 mmol in DCM 150 mL at 40 C. dry ice CHCN . Immediately the reaction was complete as judged by LC MS 2.47 min ES m z relative intensity 721 M H 100 . The mixture was diluted with DCM 150 mL and washed with 1N HCl 300 mL saturated NaHCO 300 mL brine 300 mL filtered through a phase separator and the solvent evaporated in vacuo to give the pure product 2a as an orange solid 21.8 g 82 .

Analytical Data 46.1 c 0.47 CHCl H NMR 400 MHz CDCl rotamers 7.63 s 2H 6.82 s 2H 4.79 4.72 m 2H 4.49 4.28 m 6H 3.96 s 6H 3.79 s 6H 3.46 3.38 m 2H 3.02 d 2H J 11.1 Hz 2.48 2.30 m 4H 2.29 2.04 m 4H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl rotamers 172.4 166.7 154.6 148.4 137.2 127.0 109.7 108.2 69.7 65.1 57.4 57.0 56.7 52.4 37.8 29.0 IR ATR CHCl 3410 br 3010 2953 1741 1622 1577 1519 1455 1429 1334 1274 1211 1177 1072 1050 1008 871 cm MS ES m z relative intensity 721 M 47 388 80 HRMS M H . theoretical CHNOm z 721.2199. found ES m z 721.2227.

Method A A suspension of 10 Pd C 7.5 g 10 w w in DMF 40 mL was added to a solution of the nitro ester 2a 75 g 104 mmol in DMF 360 mL . The suspension was hydrogenated in a Parr hydrogenation apparatus over 8 hours. Progress of the reaction was monitored by LC MS 2.12 min ES m z relative intensity 597 M H 100 ES m z relative intensity 595 M H 100 after the hydrogen uptake had stopped. Solid Pd C was removed by filtration and the filtrate was concentrated by rotary evaporation under vacuum below 10 mbar at 40 C. to afford a dark oil containing traces of DMF and residual charcoal. The residue was digested in EtOH 500 mL at 40 C. on a water bath rotary evaporator bath and the resulting suspension was filtered through celite and washed with ethanol 500 mL to give a clear filtrate. Hydrazine hydrate 10 mL 321 mmol was added to the solution and the reaction mixture was heated at reflux. After 20 minutes the formation of a white precipitate was observed and reflux was allowed to continue for a further 30 minutes. The mixture was allowed to cool down to room temperature and the precipitate was retrieved by filtration washed with diethyl ether 2 1 volume of precipitate and dried in a vacuum desiccator to provide 3a 50 g 81 .

Method B A solution of the nitro ester 2a 6.80 g 9.44 mmol in MeOH 300 mL was added to Raney nickel 4 large spatula ends of a 50 slurry in HO and anti bumping granules in a 3 neck round bottomed flask. The mixture was heated at reflux and then treated dropwise with a solution of hydrazine hydrate 5.88 mL 6.05 g 188 mmol in MeOH 50 mL at which point vigorous effervescence was observed. When the addition was complete 30 minutes additional Raney nickel was added carefully until effervescence had ceased and the initial yellow colour of the reaction mixture was discharged. The mixture was heated at reflux for a further 30 minutes at which point the reaction was deemed complete by TLC 90 10 v v CHCl MeOH and LC MS 2.12 min ES m z relative intensity M H 100 . The reaction mixture was allowed to cool to around 40 C. and then excess nickel removed by filtration through a sinter funnel without vacuum suction. The filtrate was reduced in volume by evaporation in vacuo at which point a colourless precipitate formed which was collected by filtration and dried in a vacuum desiccator to provide 3a 5.40 g 96 .

Analytical Data 404 c 0.10 DMF H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 10.2 s 2H NH 7.26 s 2H 6.73 s 2H 5.11 d 2H J 3.98 Hz OH 4.32 4.27 m 2H 4.19 4.07 m 6H 3.78 s 6H 3.62 dd 2H J 12.1 3.60 Hz 3.43 dd 2H J 12.0 4.72 Hz 2.67 2.57 m 2H 2.26 p 2H J 5.90 Hz 1.99 1.89 m 2H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO d 169.1 164.0 149.9 144.5 129.8 117.1 111.3 104.5 54.8 54.4 53.1 33.5 27.5 IR ATR neat 3438 1680 1654 1610 1605 1516 1490 1434 1379 1263 1234 1216 1177 1156 1115 1089 1038 1018 952 870 cm MS ES m z relative intensity 619 M Na 10 597 M H 52 445 12 326 11 HRMS M H . theoretical CHNOm z 597.2191. found ES m z 597.2205.

TBSCI 317 mg 2.1 mmol and imidazole 342 mg 5.03 mmol were added to a cloudy solution of the tetralactam 3a 250 mg 0.42 mmol in anhydrous DMF 6 mL . The mixture was allowed to stir under a nitrogen atmosphere for 3 hours after which time the reaction was deemed complete as judged by LC MS 3.90 min ES m z relative intensity 825 M H 100 . The reaction mixture was poured onto ice 25 mL and allowed to warm to room temperature with stirring. The resulting white precipitate was collected by vacuum filtration washed with HO diethyl ether and dried in the vacuum desiccator to provide pure 4a 252 mg 73 .

Analytical Data 234 c 0.41 CHCl H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.65 s 2H NH 7.44 s 2H 6.54 s 2H 4.50 p 2H J 5.38 Hz 4.21 4.10 m 6H 3.87 s 6H 3.73 3.63 m 4H 2.85 2.79 m 2H 2.36 2.29 m 2H 2.07 1.99 m 2H 0.86 s 18H 0.08 s 12H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 170.4 165.7 151.4 146.6 129.7 118.9 112.8 105.3 69.2 65.4 56.3 55.7 54.2 35.2 28.7 25.7 18.0 4.82 and 4.86 IR ATR CHCl 3235 2955 2926 2855 1698 1695 1603 1518 1491 1446 1380 1356 1251 1220 1120 1099 1033 cm MS ES m z relative intensity 825 M H 62 721 14 440 38 HRMS M H theoretical CHNOSim z 825.3921. found ES m z 825.3948.

A solution of n BuLi 4.17 mL of a 1.6 M solution in hexane 6.67 mmol in anhydrous THF 10 mL was added dropwise to a stirred suspension of the tetralactam 4a 2.20 g 2.67 mmol in anhydrous THF 30 mL at 30 C. dry ice ethylene glycol under a nitrogen atmosphere. The reaction mixture was allowed to stir at this temperature for 1 hour now a reddish orange colour at which point a solution of SEMCI 1.18 mL 1.11 g 6.67 mmol in anhydrous THF 10 mL was added dropwise. The reaction mixture was allowed to slowly warm to room temperature and was stirred for 16 hours under a nitrogen atmosphere. The reaction was deemed complete as judged by TLC EtOAc and LC MS 4.77 min ES m z relative intensity 1085 M H 100 . The THF was removed by evaporation in vacuo and the resulting residue dissolved in EtOAc 60 mL washed with HO 20 mL brine 20 mL dried MgSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo to provide the crude product. Purification by flash chromatography 80 20 v v Hexane EtOAc gave the pure N10 SEM protected tetralactam 5a as an oil 2.37 g 82 .

Analytical Data 163 c 0.41 CHCl H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.33 s 2H 7.22 s 2H 5.47 d 2H J 9.98 Hz 4.68 d 2H J 9.99 Hz 4.57 p 2H J 5.77 Hz 4.29 4.19 m 6H 3.89 s 6H 3.79 3.51 m 8H 2.87 2.81 m 2H 2.41 p 2H J 5.81 Hz 2.03 1.90 m 2H 1.02 0.81 m 22H 0.09 s 12H 0.01 s 18H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 170.0 165.7 151.2 147.5 133.8 121.8 111.6 106.9 78.1 69.6 67.1 65.5 56.6 56.3 53.7 35.6 30.0 25.8 18.4 18.1 1.24 4.73 IR ATR CHCl 2951 1685 1640 1606 1517 1462 1433 1360 1247 1127 1065 cm MS ES m z relative intensity M Na 48 1085 M H 100 1009 5 813 6 HRMS M H theoretical CHNOSim z 1085.5548. found ES m z 1085.5542.

Preparation from 4b according to the above method gave the product as a pale orange foam 46.9 g 100 used without further purification.

Analytical Data MS ES m z relative intensity 1114 M H 90 ES m z relative intensity 1158 M 2Na . 100 .

A solution of TBAF 5.24 mL of a 1.0 M solution in THF 5.24 mmol was added to a stirred solution of the bis silyl ether 5a 2.58 g 2.38 mmol in THF 40 mL at room temperature. After stirring for 3.5 hours analysis of the reaction mixture by TLC 95 5 v v CHCl MeOH revealed completion of reaction. The reaction mixture was poured into a solution of saturated NHCl 100 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 30 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 60 mL dried MgSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo to provide the crude product. Purification by flash chromatography gradient elution 100 CHClto 96 4 v v CHCl MeOH gave the pure tetralactam 6a as a white foam 1.78 g 87 .

Analytical Data 202 c 0.34 CHCl H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.28 s 2H 7.20 s 2H 5.44 d 2H J 10.0 Hz 4.72 d 2H J 10.0 Hz 4.61 4.58 m 2H 4.25 t 4H J 5.83 Hz 4.20 4.16 m 2H 3.91 3.85 m 8H 3.77 3.54 m 6H 3.01 br s 2H OH 2.96 2.90 m 2H 2.38 p 2H J 5.77 Hz 2.11 2.05 m 2H 1.00 0.91 m 4H 0.00 s 18H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 169.5 165.9 151.3 147.4 133.7 121.5 111.6 106.9 79.4 69.3 67.2 65.2 56.5 56.2 54.1 35.2 29.1 18.4 1.23 IR ATR CHCl 2956 1684 1625 1604 1518 1464 1434 1361 1238 1058 1021 cm MS ES m z relative intensity 885 M 29 70 857 M H 100 711 8 448 17 HRMS M H theoretical CHNOSim z 857.3819. found ES m z 857.3826.

Method A A 0.37 M sodium hypochlorite solution 142.5 mL 52.71 mmol 2.4 eq was added dropwise to a vigorously stirred mixture of the diol 6a 18.8 g 21.96 mmol 1 eq TEMPO 0.069 g 0.44 mmol 0.02 eq and 0.5 M potassium bromide solution 8.9 mL 4.4 mmol 0.2 eq in DCM 115 mL at 0 C. The temperature was maintained between 0 C. and 5 C. by adjusting the rate of addition. The resultant yellow emulsion was stirred at 0 C. to 5 C. for 1 hour. TLC EtOAc and LC MS 3.53 min. ES m z relative intensity 875 M Na 50 ES m z relative intensity 852 M H 100 indicated that reaction was complete.

The reaction mixture was filtered the organic layer separated and the aqueous layer was backwashed with DCM 2 . The combined organic portions were washed with brine 1 dried MgSO and evaporated to give a yellow foam. Purification by flash column chromatography gradient elution 35 65 v v n hexane EtOAC 30 70 to 25 75 v v n hexane EtOAC afforded the bis ketone 7a as a white foam 14.1 g 75 .

Sodium hypochlorite solution reagent grade available at chlorine 10 13 was used. This was assumed to be 10 10 g NaClO in 100 g and calculated to be 1.34 M in NaClO. A stock solution was prepared from this by diluting it to 0.37 M with water. This gave a solution of approximately pH 14. The pH was adjusted to 9.3 to 9.4 by the addition of solid NaHCO. An aliquot of this stock was then used so as to give 2.4 mol eq. for the reaction.

On addition of the bleach solution an initial increase in temperature was observed. The rate of addition was controlled to maintain the temperature between 0 C. to 5 C. The reaction mixture formed a thick lemon yellow coloured emulsion.

Method B Solid TCCA 10.6 g 45.6 mmol was added portionwise to a stirred solution of the alcohol 6a 18.05 g 21.1 mmol and TEMPO 123 mg 0.78 mmol in anhydrous DCM 700 mL at 0 C. ice acetone . The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. under a nitrogen atmosphere for 15 minutes after which time TLC EtOAc and LC MS 3.57 min ES m z relative intensity 875 M Na 50 revealed completion of reaction. The reaction mixture was filtered through celite and the filtrate was washed with saturated aqueous NaHCO 400 mL brine 400 mL dried MgSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo to provide the crude product. Purification by flash column chromatography 80 20 v v EtOAc Hexane afforded the bis ketone 7a as a foam 11.7 g 65 .

Method C A solution of anhydrous DMSO 0.72 mL 0.84 g 10.5 mmol in dry DCM 18 mL was added dropwise over a period of 25 min to a stirred solution of oxalyl chloride 2.63 mL of a 2.0 M solution in DCM 5.26 mmol under a nitrogen atmosphere at 60 C. liq N CHCl . After stirring at 55 C. for 20 minutes a slurry of the substrate 6a 1.5 g 1.75 mmol in dry DCM 36 mL was added dropwise over a period of 30 min to the reaction mixture. After stirring for a further 50 minutes at 55 C. a solution of TEA 3.42 mL 2.49 g 24.6 mmol in dry DCM 18 mL was added dropwise over a period of 20 min to the reaction mixture. The stirred reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature 1.5 h and then diluted with DCM 50 mL . The organic solution was washed with 1 N HCl 2 25 mL HO 30 mL brine 30 mL and dried MgSO . Filtration and evaporation of the solvent in vacuo afforded the crude product which was purified by flash column chromatography 80 20 v v EtOAc Hexane to afford bis ketone 7a as a foam 835 mg 56 

Analytical Data 291 c 0.26 CHCl H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.32 s 2H 7.25 s 2H 5.50 d 2H J 10.1 Hz 4.75 d 2H J 10.1 Hz 4.60 dd 2H J 9.85 3.07 Hz 4.31 4.18 m 6H 3.89 3.84 m 8H 3.78 3.62 m 4H 3.55 dd 2H J 19.2 2.85 Hz 2.76 dd 2H J 19.2 9.90 Hz 2.42 p 2H J 5.77 Hz 0.98 0.91 m 4H 0.00 s 18H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 206.8 168.8 165.9 151.8 148.0 133.9 120.9 111.6 107.2 78.2 67.3 65.6 56.3 54.9 52.4 37.4 29.0 18.4 1.24 IR ATR CHCl 2957 1763 1685 1644 1606 1516 1457 1434 1360 1247 1209 1098 1066 1023 cm MS ES m z relative intensity 881 M 29 38 853 M H 100 707 8 542 12 HRMS M H theoretical CHNOSim z 853.3506. found ES m z 853.3502.

Analytical Data MS ES m z relative intensity 882 M H 30 735 100 ES m z relative intensity 925 M 45 100 880 M H 70 .

Anhydrous 2 6 lutidine 5.15 mL 4.74 g 44.2 mmol was injected in one portion to a vigorously stirred solution of bis ketone 7a 6.08 g 7.1 mmol in dry DCM 180 mL at 45 C. dry ice acetonitrile cooling bath under a nitrogen atmosphere. Anhydrous triflic anhydride taken from a freshly opened ampoule 7.2 mL 12.08 g 42.8 mmol was injected rapidly dropwise while maintaining the temperature at 40 C. or below. The reaction mixture was allowed to stir at 45 C. for 1 hour at which point TLC 50 50 v v n hexane EtOAc revealed the complete consumption of starting material. The cold reaction mixture was immediately diluted with DCM 200 mL and with vigorous shaking washed with water 1 100 mL 5 citric acid solution 1 200 mL saturated NaHCO 200 mL brine 100 mL and dried MgSO . Filtration and evaporation of the solvent in vacuo afforded the crude product which was purified by flash column chromatography gradient elution 90 10 v v n hexane EtOAc to 70 30 v v n hexane EtOAc to afford bis enol triflate 8a as a yellow foam 5.5 g 70 .

Analytical Data 271 c 0.18 CHCl H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.33 s 2H 7.26 s 2H 7.14 t 2H J 1.97 Hz 5.51 d 2H J 10.1 Hz 4.76 d 2H J 10.1 Hz 4.62 dd 2H J 11.0 3.69 Hz 4.32 4.23 m 4H 3.94 3.90 m 8H 3.81 3.64 m 4H 3.16 ddd 2H J 16.3 11.0 2.36 Hz 2.43 p 2H J 5.85 Hz 1.23 0.92 m 4H 0.02 s 18H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 167.1 162.7 151.9 148.0 138.4 133.6 120.2 118.8 111.9 107.4 78.6 67.5 65.6 56.7 56.3 30.8 29.0 18.4 1.25 IR ATR CHCl 2958 1690 1646 1605 1517 1456 1428 1360 1327 1207 1136 1096 1060 1022 938 913 cm MS ES m z relative intensity 1144 M 28 100 1117 M H 48 1041 40 578 HRMS M H theoretical CHNOSiSFm z 1117.2491. found ES m z 1117.2465.

Preparation from 7b according to the above method gave the bis enol triflate as a pale yellow foam 6.14 g 82 .

Solid Pd PPh 20.18 mg 17.46 mmol was added to a stirred solution of the triflate 8a 975 mg 0.87 mmol 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaboralane 2 yl aniline 172 mg 0.79 mmol and NaCO 138 mg 3.98 mol in toluene 13 mL EtOH 6.5 mL and HO 6.5 mL . The dark solution was allowed to stir under a nitrogen atmosphere for 24 hours after which time analysis by TLC EtOAc and LC MS revealed the formation of the desired mono coupled product and as well as the presence of unreacted starting material. The solvent was removed by rotary evaporation under reduced pressure and the resulting residue partitioned between HO 100 mL and EtOAc 100 mL after eventual separation of the layers the aqueous phase was extracted again with EtOAc 2 25 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with HO 50 mL brine 60 mL dried MgSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo to provide the crude Suzuki product. The crude Suzuki product was subjected to flash chromatography 40 EtOAc 60 Hexane 10 EtOAc 30 Hexane . Removal of the excess eluent by rotary evaporation under reduced pressure afforded the desired product 9 399 mg in 43 yield.

Solid Pd PPh 10 mg 8.69 mol was added to a stirred solution of the mono triflate 9 230 mg 0.22 mmol in toluene 3 mL EtOH 10 mL with 4 methoxyphenyl boronic acid 43 mg 0.28 mmol NaCO 37 mg 0.35 mmol in HO 1.5 mL at room temperature. The reaction mixture was allowed to stir under a nitrogen atmosphere for 20 h at which point the reaction was deemed complete as judged by LC MS and TLC EtOAc . The solvent was removed by rotary evaporation under reduced pressure in vacuo and the resulting residue partitioned between EtOAc 75 mL and HO 75 mL . The aqueous phase was extracted with EtOAc 3 30 mL and the combined organic layers washed with HO 30 mL brine 40 mL dried MgSO filtered and evaporated to provide the crude product. The crude product was purified by flash chromatography 60 Hexane 40 EtOAc 80 EtOAc 20 Hexane to provide the pure dimer as an orange foam. Removal of the excess eluent under reduced pressure afforded the desired product 10 434 mg in 74 yield.

Fresh LiBH 183 mg 8.42 mmol was added to a stirred solution of the SEM dilactam 10 428 mg 0.42 mmol in THF 5 mL and EtOH 5 mL at room temperature. After 10 minutes delayed vigorous effervescence was observed requiring the reaction vessel to be placed in an ice bath. After removal of the ice bath the mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 1 hour. LC MS analysis at this point revealed total consumption of starting material with very little mono reduced product. The reaction mixture was poured onto ice 100 mL and allowed to warm to room temperature with stirring. The aqueous mixture was extracted with DCM 3 30 mL and the combined organic layers washed with HO 20 mL brine 30 mL and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was treated with DCM 5 mL EtOH 14 mL HO 7 mL and silica gel 10 g . The viscous mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 3 days. The mixture was filtered slowly through a sinter funnel and the silica residue washed with 90 CHCl 10 MeOH 250 mL until UV activity faded completely from the eluent. The organic phase was washed with HO 50 mL brine 60 mL dried MgSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo to provide the crude material. The crude product was purified by flash chromatography 97 CHCl 3 MeOH to provide the pure C2 C2 aryl PBD dimer 11 185 mg 61 yield.

Solid Pd PPh 32 mg 27.7 mol was added to a stirred solution of the bis triflate 8b 1.04 g 0.91 mmol in toluene 10 mL EtOH 5 mL with 4 methoxyphenyl boronic acid 0.202 g 1.32 mmol NaCO 0.169 g 1.6 mmol in HO 5 mL at 30 C. The reaction mixture was allowed to stir under a nitrogen atmosphere for 20 hours. Additional solid 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaboralan 2 yl aniline 0.203 g 0.93 mmol and NaCO 0.056 g 0.53 mmol were added followed by solid Pd PPh 10 mg 8.6 mol . The reaction mixture was allowed to stir under a nitrogen atmosphere for a further 20 hours. LC MS indicated the formation of desired product. EtOAc 100 mL and HO 100 mL were added the aqueous was separated and extracted with EtOAc 3 30 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with HO 100 mL brine 100 mL dried MgSO filtered and evaporated to provide a dark brown oil. The oil was dissolved in DCM and loaded onto a 10 g SCX 2 cartridge pre equilibrated with DCM 1 vol . The cartridge was washed with DCM 3 vol MeOH 3 vol and the crude product eluted with 2M NHin MeOH 2 vol . Flash chromatography 50 n hexane 50 EtOAc 20 n hexane 80 EtOAc provided the pure dimer 12 as a yellow foam 0.16 g 34 .

Analytical Data 388 c 0.22 CHCl H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.39 s 2H 7.35 d 2H J 12.8 Hz 7.32 bs 1H 7.26 7.23 m 5H 6.89 d 2H J 8.8 Hz 6.66 d 2H J 8.5 Hz 5.55 d 2H J 10.0 Hz 4.73 d 1H J 10.0 Hz 4.72 d 1H J 10.0 Hz 4.62 td 2 H J 3.2 10.4 Hz 4.15 4.05 m 4H 4.00 3.85 m 8H 3.82 s 3H 3.77 3.63 m 4H 3.20 3.05 m 2H 2.05 1.95 m 4H 1.75 1.67 m 2H 1.01 0.95 m 4H 0.03 s 18H MS ES m z relative intensity 1047 M H 45 .

Fresh LiBH 66 mg 3.04 mmol was added to a stirred solution of the SEM dilactam 12 428 mg 0.42 mmol in THF 3 mL and EtOH 3 mL at 0 C. ice bath . The ice bath was removed and the reaction mixture was allowed to reach room temperature vigorous effervescence . After 2 hours LC MS analysis indicated the complete consumption of starting material. The reaction mixture was poured onto ice 50 mL and allowed to warm to room temperature with stirring. The aqueous mixture was extracted with DCM 3 50 mL and the combined organic layers washed with HO 50 mL brine 50 mL dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was treated with DCM 2 mL EtOH 5 mL HO 2.5 mL and silica gel 3.7 g . The viscous mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 3 days. The mixture was filtered through a sinter funnel and the silica residue washed with 90 CHCl 10 MeOH 250 mL until UV activity faded completely from the eluent. The organic phase was dried MgSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo to provide the crude material. The crude product was purified by flash chromatography 99.5 CHCl 0.5 MeOH to 97.5 CHCl 2.5 MeOH in 0.5 increments to provide the pure C2 C2 aryl PBD dimer 13 59 mg 52 .

Analytical Data 760 c 0.14 CHCl H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.89 d 1H J 4.0 Hz 7.87 d 1H J 4.0 Hz 7.52 s 2H 7.39 bs 1H 7.37 7.28 m 3H 7.22 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 6.91 d 2H J 8.8 Hz 6.815 s 1H 6.81 s 1H 6.68 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 4.45 4.35 m 2H 4.2 4.0 m 4H 3.94 s 6H 3.85 3.7 s 3H 3.65 3.50 m 2H 3.45 3.3 m 2H 2.05 1.9 m 4H 1.75 1.65 m 2H MS ES relative intensity 754.6 M H 100 ES relative intensity 752.5 M H 100 .

Solid Pd PPh 41 mg 0.036 mmol was added to a stirred solution of the bis triflate 8a 1 g 0.9 mmol in toluene 10 mL EtOH 5 mL with thien 2 yl boronic acid 149 mg 1.16 mmol NaCO 152 mg 1.43 mmol in HO 5 mL . The reaction mixture was allowed to stir under a nitrogen atmosphere overnight at room temperature. The solvent was removed by evaporation in vacuo and the resulting residue partitioned between HO 100 mL and EtOAc 100 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 2 30 mL and the combined organic layers washed with HO 50 mL brine 50 mL dried MgSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo to provide the crude product which was purified by flash chromatography 80 hexane 20 EtOAc 50 hexane 50 EtOAc to provide the dimer 14 188 mg 20 yield

Analytical data LC MS RT 4.27 mins 1051 M H H NMR 400 MHZ CDCl 7.36 s 1H 7.31 bs 1H 7.27 bs 1H 7.26 7.23 m 2H 7.22 7.17 m 1H 7.12 bs 1H 7.02 6.96 m 2H 5.50 d J 10.0 Hz 2H 7.75 d J 10.0 Hz 2H 4.65 4.55 m 2H 4.37 4.13 m 4H 4.00 3.85 m 8H 3.8 3.6 m 4H 3.20 3.10 m 2H 2.50 2.35 m 2H 1.0 0.9 m 4H 0 s 18H .

Solid Pd PPh 7.66 mg 6.63 mol was added to a stirred cloudy solution of 14 174 mg 0.17 mmol NaCO 28 mg 0.22 mmol and 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaboralan 2 yl aniline 47 mg 0.22 mmol in toluene 2 5 mL EtOH 1.25 mL and HO 125 mL at room temperature. The reaction mixture was allowed to stir under a Natmosphere for 24 hours at which point the reaction was deemed complete by LC MS major peak 3.97 min FW 1016 M Na and TLC EtOAc . The solvent was removed by evaporation in vacuo and the resulting residue partitioned between EtOAc 60 mL and HO 30 mL . The layers were separated and the organic phase was washed with HO 20 mL brine 30 mL dried MgSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo to provide the crude product 123 mg 75 yield.

Analytical data LC MS RT 3.98 mins 100 area 994 M H H NMR 400 MHZ CDCl 7.40 d J 5.3 Hz 2H 7.30 t J 1.70 Hz 1H 7.29 7.27 m 3H 7.25 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 7.21 dd J 1.4 4.73 Hz 1H 7.03 6.97 m 2H 6.66 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 5.52 d J 10.0 Hz 2H 4.78 d J 10.0 Hz 1H 4.77 d J 10.0 Hz 1H 4.62 dd J 3.4 10.5 Hz 1H 4.59 dd J 3.40 10.6 Hz 1H 4.30 t J 5.85 Hz 4H 3.85 4.03 m 8H 3.84 3.64 m 6H 3.18 ddd J 2.2 10.5 16.0 Hz 1H 3.11 ddd J 2.2 10.5 16.0 Hz 1H 2.44 p J 5.85 Hz 2H 0.98 t J 1.5 Hz 4H 0 s 18H .

Fresh LiBH 47 mg 2.22 mmol was added to a stirred solution of the SEM dilactam 15 110 mg 0.11 mmol in dry THF 3 mL and EtOH 3 mL at 0 C. ice bath . The ice bath was removed and the reaction mixture stirred under a Natmosphere for 1 hour. Analysis of the reaction by LC MS analysis revealed significant formation of the desired product Pk 2.57 min I 69.32 FW 702 M H and half imine. The reaction mixture was allowed to stir for a further 1 hour after which time no further reaction progress was observed by LC MS. The reaction mixture was poured onto ice stirred and allowed to warm to room temperature. Following partition between DCM 50 mL and water 50 mL the aqueous phase was extracted with DCM 3 20 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with HO 50 mL brine 50 mL and the solvent removed by evaporation in vacuo under reduced pressure.

The resulting residue was dissolved in DCM 5 mL EtOH 15 mL and HO 7 mL then treated with silica gel 5 g . The reaction was allowed to stir at room temperature for 48 h. The silica was removed by filtration through a sinter funnel and the residue rinsed with 90 10 CHCl MeOH 100 mL . HO 50 mL was added to the filtrate and the layers were separated after shaking . The aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl 2 30 mL and HO 50 mL brine 50 mL dried MgSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo to provide the crude product. Flash chromatography CHCl 98 CHCl 2 MeOH afforded the product 41 mg 53 .

Solid 4 methoxybenzeneboronic acid 0.388 g 2.55 mmol was added to a solution of the SEM protected bis triflate 8a 3.0 g 2.69 mmol sodium carbonate 426 mg 4.02 mmol and palladium tetrakis triphenylphosphine 0.08 mmol in toluene 54.8 mL ethanol 27 mL and water 27 mL . The reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was then partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The organic layer was washed with water and brine and dried over magnesium sulphate. Excess solvent was removed by rotary evaporation under reduced pressure and the resulting residue was subjected to flash column chromatography silica gel gradient elution EtOAc hexane 30 70 35 65 40 60 45 55 to remove unreacted bis triflate 0.6 g . Removal of excess eluent from selected fractions afforded the 4 methoxyphenyl coupled product 1.27 g 1.18 mmol 41 .

LC MS RT 4.30 mins 1076 M H H NMR 400 MHZ CDCl 7.41 s 1H 7.39 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.35 s 1H 7.34 bs 1H 7.29 s 1H 7.16 t J 1.9 Hz 1H 6.90 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 5.53 d J 10.0 Hz 2H 4.79 d J 10.0 Hz 1H 4.78 d J 10.0 Hz 1H 4.66 4.60 m 2H 4.30 t J 5.7 Hz 4H 4.0 3.94 m 2H 3.93 s 3H 3.92 s 3H 3.84 s 3H 3.83 3.60 m 4H 3.22 3.10 m 2H 2.45 t J 5.9 Hz 2H 1.05 0.94 m 4H 0 s 18H .

Solid 3 aminobenzeneboronic acid 0.143 g 0.92 mmol was added to a solution of the mono triflate 17 0.619 g 0.58 mmol sodium carbonate 195 mg 1.84 mmol and palladium tetrakis triphenylphosphine 26.6 mg 0.023 mmol in toluene 10 mL ethanol 5 mL and water 5 mL . The reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for overnight at 30 C. The reaction mixture was then partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The organic layer was washed with water and brine and dried over magnesium sulphate. Excess solvent was removed by rotary evaporation under reduced pressure and the resulting residue was subjected to flash column chromatography silica gel gradient elution EtOAc hexane 70 30 85 15 . Removal of excess eluent from selected fractions afforded the desired product 0.502 g 0.49 mmol 85 .

LC MS RT 4.02 mins 1019 M H H NMR 400 MHZ CDCl 7.38 7.35 m 4H 7.33 bs 1H 7.30 bs 1H 7.25 s 2H 7.10 t J 7.8 Hz 1H 6.88 6.80 m 3H 6.72 bs 1H 6.57 dd J 7.9 1.8 Hz 1H 5.50 d J 10.0 Hz 2H 4.75 d 10.0 Hz 2H 4.58 dd J 10.6 3.3 Hz 2H 4.27 t J 5.8 Hz 4H 3.95 3.91 m 2H 3.90 s 6H 3.80 s 3H 3.77 3.60 m. 6H 3.15 3.05 m 2H 2.41 p J 5.8 Hz 2H 0.95 t 8.25 Hz 4H 0 s 18H .

A solution of superhydride 0.56 mL 0.56 mmol 1.0 M in THF was added dropwise to a solution of the SEM dilactam 18 0.271 g 0.27 mmol in dry THF 10 mL at 78 C. under a nitrogen atmosphere. After 1 hr a further aliquot of superhydride solution 0.13 ml 0.13 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir for another 0.5 hr at which time LC MS indicated that reduction was complete. The reaction mixture was diluted with water and allowed to warm to room temperature. The reaction mixture was partitioned between chloroform and water the layers were separated and the aqueous layer extracted with additional chloroform emulsions . Finally the combined organic phase was washed with brine and dried over magnesium sulphate. The reduced product was dissolved in methanol chloroform and water and allowed to stir in the presence of silica gel for 72 hours The crude product was subjected to flash column chromatography methanol chloroform gradient to afford the desired imine product 150 mg 0.21 mmol 77 after removal of excess eluent from selected fractions.

LC MS RT 2.63 mins 97 area 726 M H H NMR 400 MHZ CDCl 7.85 d J 3.9 Hz 1H 7.84 d J 3.9 Hz 1H 7.50 s 1H 7.49 s 1H 7.42 s 1H 7.36 s 1H 7.32 d J 7.3 Hz 2H 7.11 t d J 7.8 Hz 1H 6.90 6.80 m 4H 6.77 d J 7.9 Hz 1H 4.40 4.20 m 6H 3.92 s 6H 3.80 s 3H 3.60 3.27 m 6H 2.48 2.29 m 2H 

Solid 4 methoxybenzeneboronic acid 59 mg 0.39 mmol was added to a solution of the Troc protected bis triflate Compound 44 WO 2006 111759 600 mg 0.41 mmol sodium carbonate 65 mg 0.61 mmoml and palladium tetrakis triphenylphosphine 0.012 mmol in toluene 10.8 mL ethanol 5.4 mL and water 5.4 mL . The reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was then partitioned between ethylacetate and water. The organic layer was washed with water and brine and dried over magnesium sulphate. Excess solvent was removed by rotary evaporation under reduced pressure and the resulting residue was subjected to flash column chromatography silica gel gradient elution EtOAc hexane 20 80 30 70 40 60 60 40 to remove unreacted bis triflate. Removal of excess eluent from selected fractions afforded the 4 methoxyphenyl coupled product 261 mg 0.18 mmol 46 .

LC MS RT 4.17 mins 1427 M H H NMR 400 MHZ CDCl 7.38 s 1H 7.33 s 1H 7.31 s 1H 7.30 s 1H 7.25 s 1H 7.20 bs 1H 6.92 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 6.77 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 6.0 5.90 m 2H 5.25 d J 12.0 Hz 1H 5.24 d J 12.0 Hz 1H 4.24 d J 12.0 Hz 1H 4.22 d J 12.0 Hz 1H 4.18 4.08 m 2H 4.07 3.89 m 10H 3.81 s 3H 3.44 3.25 m 2H 2.85 d J 16.6 Hz 2H 2.05 1.90 m 4H 1.76 1.64 m 2H 0.93 s 9H 0.90 s 9H 0.30 s 6H 0.26 s 6H .

The Suzuki coupling procedure described in step a was applied to the synthesis of Compound 21. Compound 20 62.5 mg 0.044 mmol was treated with 1 equivalent of 4 hydroxybenzeneboronic acid 10 mg at 30 C. overnight to afford the desired compound after filtration through a pad of silica gel. 40 mg 0.029 mmol 66 yield . The compound was used directly in the subsequent step LC MS RT 4.27 mins 1371 M H 

Cadmium lead couple 100 mg Q Dong et al. Tetrahedron Letters vol 36 issue 32 5681 5682 1995 was added to a solution of 21 40 mg 0.029 mmol in THF 1 mL and ammonium acetate 1N 1 mL and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was partitioned between chloroform and water the phases separated and the aqueous phase extracted with chloroform. The combined organic layers were washed with brine and dried over magnesium sulphate. Rotary evaporation under reduced pressure yielded the crude product which was subjected to column chromatography silica gel 0 4 MeOH CHCl . Removal of excess eluent by rotary evaporation under reduced pressure afforded the desired imine product 17 mg 0.023 mmol 79 .

LC MS RT 2.20 mins 755 M H H NMR 400 MHZ CDCl 7.89 d J 3.94 Hz 1H 7.89 d J 4.00 Hz 1H 7.53 s 1H 7.52 s 1H 7.38 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.33 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 7.28 s 1H 6.90 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 6.84 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 6.82 s 1H 6.81 s 1H 5.68 bs 1H 4.50 4.30 m 2H 4.22 4.00 m 4H 3.93 s 6H 3.82 s 3H 3.69 3.45 m 2H 3.44 3.28 m 2H 2.64 1.88 m 4H 1.77 1.62 m 2H .

The Suzuki coupling procedure described in Example 5 step a was applied to the synthesis of Compound 24. Compound 21 62.5 mg 0.044 mmol was treated with 1 equivalent of 4 formylbenzeneboronic acid 10.5 mg at room temperature overnight to afford the desired compound after filtration through a pad of silica gel 45 mg 0.033 mmol 75 yield . The compound was used directly in the subsequent step.

Compound 24 was deprotected by the method described in Example 5 step c to yield the desired compound 18 mg 0.023 mmol 79 .

LC MS RT 3.18 mins 768 M H H NMR 400 MHZ CDCl 9.98 s 1H 7.91 d J 3.90 Hz 1H 7.90 7.80 m 3H 7.68 s 1H 7.60 7.45 m 4H 7.39 s 1H 7.33 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 6.90 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 6.83 s 1H 6.82 s 1H 4.55 4.44 m 1H 4.43 4.36 m 1H 4.23 4.00 m 4H 3.95 s 3H 3.94 s 3H 3.82 s 3H 3.66 3.51 m 2H 3.50 3.34 m 2H 2.05 1.87 m 4H 1.76 164 m 2H .

The Suzuki coupling procedure described in Example 5 step a was applied to the synthesis of Compound 26 using 3 aminobenzeneboronic acid to afford the desired compound in 41 yield 230 mg 0.163 mmol 

LC MS RT 4.28 mins 1411 M H H NMR 400 MHZ CDCl 7.44 bs 1H 7.29 s 1H 7.25 s 1H 7.20 s 1H 7.16 t J 7.9 Hz 1H 6.84 6.73 m 3H 6.70 bs 1H 6.62 dd J 7.9 1.7 Hz 1H 6.66 6.58 m 2H 5.25 d J 12.0 Hz 1H 5.24 d J 12.0 Hz 1H 4.24 d J 12.0 Hz 1H 4.22 d J 12.0 Hz 1H 4.17 4.07 m 2H 4.08 3.89 m 10H 3.43 3.28 m 2H 2.85 d J 1.65 Hz 2H 2.07 1.90 m 4H 1.78 1.63 m 2H 0.94 s 9H 0.90 s 9H 0.30 s 6H 0.27 s 6H .

Solid 4 3 dimethylamino propoxybenzeneboronic acid pinacol ester 25 mg 0.082 mmol was added to a solution of 26 73 mg 0.052 mmol mmol sodium carbonate 18 mg 0.17 mmol and palladium tetrakis triphenylphosphine 3 mg in toluene 1 mL ethanol 0.5 mL and water 0.5 mL . The reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature over night. The reaction mixture was then partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The organic layer was washed with water and brine and dried over magnesium sulphate. Excess solvent was removed by rotary evaporation under reduced pressure and the resulting residue was eluted through a plug of silica gel with chloroform methanol. Removal of excess eluent from selected fractions afforded the 4 methoxyphenyl coupled product 50 mg 0.035 mmol 67 .

Compound 27 was deprotected by the method described in Example 5 step c to yield the desired compound. The reaction mixture was partitioned between DCM and aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate emulsion and the crude product purified by gradient column chromatography on silica gel 5 methanol chloroform 35 methanol chloroform to afford the desired unsymmetrical PBD imine 50 mg 0.018 mmol 58 

LC MS RT 2.55 mins 826 M H H NMR 400 MHZ CDCl 7.92 7.82 m 2H 7.52 bs 2H 7.45 bs 1H 7.39 bs 1H 7.31 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 7.14 t J 7.8 Hz 1H 6.89 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 6.85 6.75 m 3H 6.72 bs 1H 6.60 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 4.46 4.33 m 2H 4.21 3.98 m 6H 3.94 s 6H 3.63 3.50 m 2H 3.43 3.29 m 2H 2.64 2.48 m 2H 2.34 s 6H 2.10 1.89 m 6H 1.57 m 2H .

The method of Example 7 step b was performed to afford the desired product 58 mg 0.0.040 mmol 78 after filtration through a plug of silica gel with 1 3 methanol chloroform and removal of excess solvent by rotary evaporation under reduced pressure.

The method for Example 7 step c was used to deprotect compound 29. The crude product was purified by silica gel gradient chromatography 2 methanol chloroform 35 methanol chloroform to afford the desired unsymmetrical PBD imine 18 mg 0.022 mmol 59 

LC MS RT 2.52 mins 823 M H H NMR 400 MHZ CDCl 7.80 d J 3.8 Hz 2H 7.45 s 2H 7.38 s 1H 7.30 s 1H 7.23 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 7.07 t J 7.8 Hz 1H 6.83 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 6.79 6.89 m 3H 6.65 s 1H 6.54 d J 7.9 Hz 1H 4.40 4.24 m 2H 4.15 3.93 m 4H 3.87 s 6H 3.56 3.42 m 2H 3.37 3.23 m 2H 3.22 3.08 m 4H 2.61 2.41 m 4H 2.29 s 3H 1.98 1.80 m 4H 1.67 1.54 m 2H .

Solid 4 aminomethylbenzeneboronic acid hydrochloride 0.111 g 0.59 mmol was added to a solution of 17 0.394 g 0.37 mmol sodium carbonate 175 mg 1.654 mmol and palladium tetrakis triphenylphosphine 28.0 mg 0.024 mmol in toluene 10 mL ethanol 5 mL and water 5 mL . The reaction mixture was allowed to stir overnight at 30 C. The following day the reaction mixture was heated for a further 3 hours at 70 C. The reaction mixture was then partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The organic layer was washed with water and brine and dried over magnesium sulphate. Excess solvent was removed by rotary evaporation under reduced pressure and the resulting residue was subjected to flash column chromatography silica gel gradient elution EtOAc hexane 2 98 15 85 . Removal of excess eluent from selected fractions afforded the desired product 0.230 mg 0.22 mmol 61 .

LC MS RT 3.63 mins 1034 M 2H H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.7 s 2H 7.52 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 7.48 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.40 s 1H 7.50 d J 8.1 Hz 2H 7.38 7.19 m 5H 6.93 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 5.40 d J 2.13 Hz 1H 5.38 d J 2.12 Hz 1H 5.32 d J 10.6 Hz 2H 5.25 d J 10.6 Hz 2H 4.87 4.72 m 2H 4.35 4.15 m 4H 3.85 s 6H 3.79 s 3H 3.73 3.56 m 2H 3.55 3.39 m 4H 3.22 3.02 m 2H 2.39 2.23 m 2H 0.94 0.67 m 4H 0.06 s 18H .

Compound 31 was deprotected following the method of Example 1 step c . The crude product was purified by gradient column chromatography 5 95 30 70 MeOH CHCl to afford the product as a mixture of imine and carbinolamine methyl ethers.

Sodium bisulphite 8.5 mg 3.1 eq was added to a stirred suspension of bis imine 11 20 mg 0.036 mmol in isopropanol 4 mL and water 2 mL . The reaction mixture was allowed to stir vigorously and eventually became clear c. 1 hour . The reaction mixture was transferred to a funnel and filtered through a cotton wall and then washed with 2 mL water . The filtrate was flash frozen liquid and to bath and lyophilized to afford the desired product 33 in quantitative yield.

LC MS RT 11.77 mins 727.2 M H Mass of parent compound bisulphite adducts unstable in mass spectrometer H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.66 7.55 m 5H 7.43 s 1H 7.39 d J 8.66 Hz 2H 7.06 m 2H 6.93 d J 8.84 Hz 2H 6.54 m 2H 5.29 5.21 m 2H 4.32 4.28 m 2H 4.14 4.20 m 4H 3.96 3.83 m 2H 3.77 s 3H 3.73 m 6H 3.52 3.43 m 2H 3.30 3.08 m 2H 2.24 2.21 m 2H .

A catalytic amount of tetrakistriphenylphosphinepalladium 0 11.2 mg was added to a mixture of the mono triflate 17 380 mg the pinnacol ester of 2 aminophenylboronic acid 124 mg and sodium carbonate 120 mg in ethanol 5 mL toluene 5 mL and water 5 mL . The reaction mixture was allowed to stir over night at room temperature and at 40 C. until the reaction was complete c. 2 hr . The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and the organic layer was washed with water and brine. The ethyl acetate solution was dried over magnesium sulphate and filtered under vacuum. Removal of ethyl acetate by rotary evaporation under reduced pressure afforded the crude product which was subjected to flash chromatography silica gel ethyl acetate hexane . Pure fractions were collected and combined. Removal of excess eluent by rotary evaporation under reduced pressure afforded the pure product 103 330 mg 86 yield . LC MS RT 4.17 min ES1018.48.

A solution of Superhydride in dry tetrahydrofuran 1.0 M 4.4 eq. was added to a solution of the 2 analino compound 103 300 mg in dry tetrahydrofuran 5 mL at 78 C. under an inert atmosphere. As reduction was proceeding slowly an aliquot of lithium borohydride 20 eq. was added and the reaction mixture was allowed to return to room temperature. Water ice was added to the reaction mixture to quench unreacted hydrides and the reaction was diluted with dichloromethane. The organic layer was washed sequentially with water twice citric acid and brine. Excess dichloromethane was removed by rotary evaporation under reduced pressure and the residue was redissolve in ethanol and water and treated with silica gel for 96 hours. The reaction mixture was vacuum filtered and the filtrate evaporated to dryness. The residue was subjected to flash column chromatography silica gel gradient chloroform methanol . Pure fractions were collected and combined and excess eluent was removed by rotary evaporation under educed pressure to afford the pure product 104 30 mg 14 yield . LC MS RT 2.90 min ES 726.09.

K562 human chronic myeloid leukaemia cells were maintained in RPM1 1640 medium supplemented with 10 fetal calf serum and 2 mM glutamine at 37 C. in a humidified atmosphere containing 5 COand were incubated with a specified dose of drug for 1 hour or 96 hours at 37 C. in the dark. The incubation was terminated by centrifugation 5 min 300 g and the cells were washed once with drug free medium. Following the appropriate drug treatment the cells were transferred to 96 well microtiter plates 10cells per well 8 wells per sample . Plates were then kept in the dark at 37 C. in a humidified atmosphere containing 5 CO. The assay is based on the ability of viable cells to reduce a yellow soluble tetrazolium salt 3 4 5 dimethylthiazol 2 yl 2 5 diphenyl 2H tetrazolium bromide MTT Aldrich Sigma to an insoluble purple formazan precipitate. Following incubation of the plates for 4 days to allow control cells to increase in number by approximately 10 fold 20 L of MTT solution 5 mg mL in phosphate buffered saline was added to each well and the plates further incubated for 5 h. The plates were then centrifuged for 5 min at 300 g and the bulk of the medium pipetted from the cell pellet leaving 10 20 L per well. DMSO 200 L was added to each well and the samples agitated to ensure complete mixing. The optical density was then read at a wavelength of 550 nm on a Titertek Multiscan ELISA plate reader and a dose response curve was constructed. For each curve an ICvalue was read as the dose required to reduce the final optical density to 50 of the control value.

The A2780 parental cell line was grown in Dulbecco s Modified Eagles Media DMEM containing 10 Foetal Calf Serum FCS and 1 200 mM L Glutamine solution and grown in Corning Cellbind 75 cmflasks.

A 190 l cell suspension was added at 1 10 to each well of columns 2 to 11 of a 96 well plate Nunc 96F flat bottom TC plate . 190 l of media was added to each well of columns 1 and 12. The media was Dulbecco s Modified Eagles Media DMEM which included 10 Foetal Calf Serum FCS and 1 200 mM L Glutamine solution .

Plates were incubated overnight at 37 C. before addition of drug if cells were adherent. 200 M of the test compound solutions in 100 DMSO were serially diluted across a 96 well plate. Each resulting point was then further diluted 1 10 into sterile distilled water SDW .

To the cell negative blanks and compound negative control wells 10 DMSO was added at 5 v v. Assay plates were incubated for the following durations at 37 C. in 5 COin a humidified incubator for 72 hours. Following incubation MTT solution to a final concentration of 1.5 M was added to each well. The plates were then incubated for a further 4 hours at 37 C. in 5 COin a humidified incubator. The media was then removed and the dye was solubilised in 200 l DMSO 99.99 .

Plates were read at 540 nm absorbance using an Envision plate reader. Data was analysed using Microsoft Excel and GraphPad Prism and ICvalues obtained.

The cytotoxicity of various free drug compounds was tested on a renal cell cancer cell line 786 O a Hodgkin lymphoma cell line L428 and two AML cell lines HL60 and HEL. For a 96 hour assay cells cultured in log phase growth were seeded for 24 h in 96 well plates containing 150 L RPMI 1640 supplemented with 20 FBS. Serial dilutions of test article i.e. free drug in cell culture media were prepared at 4x working concentration 50 L of each dilution was added to the 96 well plates. Following addition of test article the cells were incubated with test articles for 4 days at 37 C. Resazurin was then added to each well to achieve a 50 M final concentration and the plates were incubated for an additional 4 h at 37 C. The plates were then read for the extent of dye reduction on a Fusion HT plate reader Packard Instruments Meridien Conn. USA with excitation and emission wavelengths of 530 and 590 nm respectively. The ICvalue determined in triplicate is defined here as the concentration that results in a 50 reduction in cell growth relative to untreated controls.

Referring to the following Table 1 the para aniline compound 11 showed markedly increased activity on these cell lines as compared to the meta aniline compound 19 in this assay.

Referring to the following Table 2 the activity of compounds 28 30 and 32 is shown on L428 786 O HEL HL 60 and MCF 7 cells as well as the activity for compound 19 on MCF 7 cells.

Referring to the following Table 3 the activities of compounds 23 25 are compared to that of compound 11 on 786 O Caki 1 MCF 7 HL 60 THP 1 HEL and TF1 cells. Cells were plated in 150 L growth media per well into black sided clear bottom 96 well plates Costar Corning and allowed to settle for 1 hour in the biological cabinet before placing in the incubator at 37 C. 5 CO. The following day 4 concentration of drug stocks were prepared and then titrated as 10 fold serial dilutions producing 8 point dose curves and added at 50 l per well in duplicate. Cells were then incubated for 48 hours at 37 C. 5 CO. Cytotoxicity was measure by incubating with 100 L Cell Titer Glo Promega solution for 1 hour and then luminescence was measured on a Fusion HT plate reader Perkin Elmer . Data was processed with Excel Microsoft and GraphPad Prism to produce dose response curves and IC50 values were generated and data collected.

General Information. In the following examples all commercially available anhydrous solvents were used without further purification. Analytical thin layer chromatography was performed on silica gel 60 F254 aluminum sheets EMD Chemicals Gibbstown N.J. . Radial chromatography was performed on Chromatotron apparatus Harris Research Palo Alto Calif. . Analytical HPLC was performed on a Varian ProStar 210 solvent delivery system configured with a Varian ProStar 330 PDA detector. Samples were eluted over a C12 Phenomenex Synergi 2.0 150 mm 4 m 80 reverse phase column. The acidic mobile phase consisted of acetonitrile and water both containing either 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid or 0.1 formic acid denoted for each compound . Compounds were eluted with a linear gradient of acidic acetonitrile from 5 at 1 min post injection to 95 at 11 min followed by isocratic 95 acetonitrile to 15 min flow rate 1.0 mL min . LC MS was performed on a ZMD Micromass mass spectrometer interfaced to an HP Agilent 1100 HPLC instrument equipped with a C12 Phenomenex Synergi 2.0 150 mm 4 m 80 reverse phase column. The acidic eluent consisted of a linear gradient of acetonitrile from 5 to 95 in 0.1 aqueous formic acid over 10 min followed by isocratic 95 acetonitrile for 5 min flow rate 0.4 mL min . Preparative HPLC was carried out on a Varian ProStar 210 solvent delivery system configured with a Varian ProStar 330 PDA detector. Products were purified over a C12 Phenomenex Synergi 10.0 250 mm 4 m 80 reverse phase column eluting with 0.1 formic acid in water solvent A and 0.1 formic acid in acetonitrile solvent B . The purification method consisted of the following gradient of solvent A to solvent B 90 10 from 0 to 5 min 90 10 to 10 90 from 5 min to 80 min followed by isocratic 10 90 for 5 min. The flow rate was 4.6 mL min with monitoring at 254 nm. NMR spectral data were collected on a Varian Mercury 400 MHz spectrometer. Coupling constants J are reported in hertz.

 S 2 S 2 6 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl hexanamido 3 methylbutanamido propanoic acid 36 To a solution of Val Ala dipeptide 34 200 mg 1.06 mmol dissolved in 10.6 mL anhydrous DMF was added maleimidocaproyl NHS ester 35 327 mg 1.06 mmol . Diisopropylethyamine 0.92 mL 5.3 mmol was then added and the reaction was stirred under nitrogen at an ambient temperature for 18 h at which time TLC and analytical HPLC revealed consumption of the starting material. The reaction was diluted with 0.1 M HCl 100 mL and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 100 mL 3 . The combined organic layer was washed with water and brine then dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The crude product was dissolved in minimal methylene chloride and purified by radial chromatography on a 2 mm chromatotron plate eluted with CHCl MeOH mixtures 95 5 to 90 10 CHCl MeOH to provide 36 158 mg 39 as an oily residue. TLC R 0.26 10 MeOH in CHCl. H NMR CDCl ppm 0.95 d J 17 Hz 3H 0.98 d J 17 Hz 3H 1.30 m 2H 1.40 d J 17 Hz 3H 1.61 m 4H 2.06 m 1H 2.25 dt J 4 19 Hz 2H 3.35 s 1H 3.49 t J 17 Hz 2H 4.20 d J 18 Hz 1H 4.38 m 1H 6.80 s 2H . Analytical HPLC 0.1 formic acid t9.05 min. LC MS t11.17 min m z ES found 381.9 M FH m z ES found 379.9 m H .

6 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl N S 1 S 1 4 S 7 methoxy 8 3 S 7 methoxy 2 4 methoxyphenyl 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 8 yl oxy propoxy 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 2 yl phenyl amino 1 oxopropan 2 yl amino 3 methyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl hexanamide 38 A flame dried 10 mL flask was charged with acid 36 3.6 mg 9.5 mol EEDQ 2.8 mg 11.4 mol and 0.33 mL anhydrous CHCl. Methanol four drops 80 L was added to facilitate dissolution and the mixture was stirred under nitrogen for 1 h. PBD dimer 37 5.7 mg 7.9 mol was then added and the reaction was stirred at room temperature for 6 h at which time LC MS revealed conversion to product. The reaction was concentrated dissolved in minimal CHCl and purified by radial chromatography on a 1 mm chromatotron plate eluted with CHCl MeOH mixtures 100 0 to 90 10 CHCl MeOH to provide the drug linker 38 3.9 mg 45 . TLC R 0.06 5 MeOH in CHCl. Analytical HPLC 0.1 formic acid t11.51 min. LC MS t12.73 min m z ES found 1089.6 M H m z ES found 1087.3 M H .

2 bromo N 4 S 7 methoxy 8 3 S 7 methoxy 2 4 methoxyphenyl 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 8 yl oxy propoxy 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 2 yl phenyl acetamide 41 To a flame dried 10 mL flask was added PBD dimer 37 16.5 mg 22.7 mol which was dissolved in 0.9 mL of a 10 MeOH in CHClsolvent mixture. Bromoacetic acid was added 3.2 mg 22.7 mol followed by EEDQ 6.8 mg 27.2 mol . The reaction was stirred at room temperature under a nitrogen atmosphere for 4 h at which time LC MS revealed conversion to product. The reaction was concentrated dissolved in minimal CHCl and purified by radial chromatography on a 1 mm chromatotron plate eluted with CHCl MeOH mixtures 100 0 to 95 5 CHCl MeOH to provide drug linker 41 9.9 mg 52 . TLC R 0.09 5 MeOH in CHCl. LC MS t12.44 min m z ES found 848.1 M FH m z ES found 845.7 M H .

6 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl N S 1 S 1 3 S 7 methoxy 8 3 S 7 methoxy 2 4 methoxyphenyl 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 8 yl oxy propoxy 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 2 yl phenyl amino 1 oxopropan 2 yl amino 3 methyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl hexanamide 43 A flame dried 10 mL flask was charged with acid 36 3.6 mg 9.4 mol EEDQ 2.8 mg 11.3 mol and 0.38 mL anhydrous CHClcontaining 1 methanol. The reaction was stirred under nitrogen for 1 h PBD dimer 42 6.8 mg 9.4 mol was then added and the reaction was stirred at room temperature for 2 h at which time LC MS revealed conversion to product. The reaction was concentrated dissolved in minimal CHCl and purified by radial chromatography on a 1 mm chromatotron plate eluted with CHCl MeOH mixtures 100 0 to 90 10 CHCl MeOH to provide drug linker 43 3.1 mg 30 . TLC R 0.31 10 MeOH in CHCl. Analytical HPLC 0.1 formic acid t11.49 min. LC MS t12.28 min m z ES found 1089.5 M H m z ES found 1087.3 M H .

6 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl N 3 S 7 methoxy 8 3 S 7 methoxy 2 4 methoxyphenyl 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 8 yl oxy propoxy 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 2 yl phenyl hexanamide 44 To a flame dried 10 mL flask was added PBD dimer 42 8.0 mg 11 mol which was dissolved in 0.44 mL of a 10 MeOH in CHClsolvent mixture. Maleimidocaproic acid 39 was added 2.3 mg 11 mol followed by EEDQ 3.3 mg 13.2 mol and pyridine 1.8 L 22 mol . The reaction was stirred at room temperature under a nitrogen atmosphere for 3 h at which time LC MS revealed conversion to product. The reaction was purified by radial chromatography on a 1 mm chromatotron plate eluted with CHCl MeOH mixtures 100 0 to 90 10 CHCl MeOH to provide drug linker compound 44 1.2 mg 12 . TLC R 0.45 10 MeOH in CHCl. Analytical HPLC 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid t11.71 min. LC MS t12.63 min m z ES found 919.1 M H m z ES found 917.1 M H .

 2S 3R 4S 5R 6R 2 2 3 9H fluoren 9 yl methoxy carbonyl amino propanamido 4 3 S 7 methoxy 8 3 S 7 methoxy 2 4 methoxyphenyl 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 8 yl oxy propoxy 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 2 yl phenyl carbamoyl oxy methyl phenoxy 6 methyltetrahydro 2H pyran 3 4 5 triyltriacetate 46 A flame dried flask was charged with glucuronide linker intermediate 45 reference Jeffrey et al. 2006 17 831 840 15 mg 20 mol 1.4 mL anhydrous CHCl pyridine 20 L 240 mol and then cooled to 78 C. under nitrogen. Diphosgene 3.0 L 24 mol was then added and the reaction was stirred for 2 h at 78 C. after which time a small aliquot was quenched with methanol and analyzed by LC MS for formation of the methyl carbonate which confirmed formation of the glucuronide chloroformate. PBD dimer 42 15 mg 20 mol was then dissolved in 0.7 mL anhydrous CHCland added dropwise to the reaction vessel. The reaction was warmed to 0 C. over 2 h and then diluted with 50 mL CHCl.

The organic layer was washed with water 50 mL brine 50 mL dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The crude reaction product was purified by radial chromatography on a 1 mm chromatotron plate eluted 10 MeOH in CHClto provide 46 5.7 mg 19 . TLC R 0.47 10 MeOH in CHCl. Analytical HPLC 0.1 formic acid t12.09 min. LC MS t14.05 min m z ES found 1500.3 M H .

 2S 3S 4S 5R 6S 6 2 3 aminopropanamido 4 3 S 7 methoxy 8 3 S 7 methoxy 2 4 methoxyphenyl 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 8 yl oxy propoxy 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 2 yl phenyl carbamoyl oxy methyl phenoxy 3 4 5 trihydroxytetrahydro 2H pyran 2 carboxylic acid 47 A flask containing 46 5.7 mg 3.8 mol dissolved in a solvent mixture of 0.2 mL each of MeOH tetrahydrofuran and water was cooled to 0 C. To the stirred solution was added lithium hydroxide monohydrate 0.8 mg 19 mol and the reaction was stirred at room temperature for 4 h at which time LC MS indicated conversion to product. Glacial acetic acid 1.1 L 19 mol was added and the reaction was concentrated to provide 47 which was carried forward without further purification. LC MS t11.59 min m z ES found 1138.4 M H .

 2S 3S 4S 5R 6S 6 2 3 6 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl hexanamido propanamido 4 3 S 7 methoxy 8 3 S 7 methoxy 2 4 methoxyphenyl 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 8 yl oxy propoxy 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 2 yl phenyl carbamoyl oxy methyl phenoxy 3 4 5 trihydroxytetrahydro 2H pyran 2 carboxylic acid 48 To a solution of 47 4.3 mg 3.8 umol dissolved in 0.38 mL anhydrous DMF was added maleimidocaproyl NHS ester 35 1.2 mg 3.8 umol followed by diisopropylethylamine 4.0 uL 22.8 umol . The reaction was stirred at room temperature under nitrogen for 2 h at which time LC MS revealed conversion to product. The reaction was diluted with a mixture of acetonitrile 0.5 mL DMSO 1 mL water 0.5 mL and then purified by preparative HPLC. The mobile phase consisted of A water and B acetonitrile both containing 0.1 formic acid. A linear elution gradient of 90 10 A B to 10 90 A B over 75 minutes was employed and fractions containing the desired product were lyophilized to provide drug linker compound 48 1.2 mg 24 over two steps . Analytical HPLC 0.1 formic acid t10.85 min. LC MS t12.12 min m z ES found 1331.4 M H m z ES found 1329.5 M H .

6 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl N S 1 S 1 3 S 7 methoxy 8 5 S 7 methoxy 2 4 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl phenyl 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 8 yl oxy pentyl oxy 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 2 yl phenyl amino 1 oxopropan 2 yl amino 3 methyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl hexanamide 51 A flame dried 10 mL flask was charged with acid 36 2.7 mg 7.1 mol EEDQ 2.1 mg 8.5 mol and 0.28 mL anhydrous CHClcontaining 1 methanol. The reaction was stirred under nitrogen for 1 h PBD dimer 49 5.8 mg 7.1 mol was then added and the reaction was stirred at room temperature for 20 h at which time LC MS revealed conversion to product. The reaction was concentrated then purified by preparative HPLC and fractions containing the desired product were lyophilized to provide drug linker compound 51 2.7 mg 32 . Analytical HPLC 0.1 formic acid t9.17 min. LC MS t11.25 min m z ES found 1185.3 M H m z ES found 1182.9 M H .

N S 1 S 1 3 S 8 5 S 2 4 3 dimethylamino propoxy phenyl 7 methoxy 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 8 yl oxy pentyl oxy 7 methoxy 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 2 yl phenyl amino 1 oxopropan 2 yl amino 3 methyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl 6 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl hexanamide 52 A flame dried 10 mL flask was charged with acid 36 3.7 mg 9.7 mol EEDQ 2.9 mg 11.6 mol and 0.4 mL anhydrous CHClcontaining 1 methanol. The reaction was stirred under nitrogen for 1 h PBD dimer 50 8.0 mg 9.7 mol was then added and the reaction was stirred at room temperature for 6 h at which time LC MS revealed the presence of product. The reaction was concentrated then purified by preparative HPLC and fractions containing the desired product were lyophilized to provide drug linker compound 52 3.1 mg 25 . Analytical HPLC 0.1 formic acid t9.45 min. LC MS t11.75 min m z ES found 1188.4 M H m z ES found 1186.0 M H .

4 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl N S 1 S 1 4 S 7 methoxy 8 3 S 7 methoxy 2 4 methoxyphenyl 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 8 yl oxy propoxy 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 2 yl phenyl amino 1 oxopropan 2 yl amino 3 methyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl benzamide 54 To a flame dried 10 mL flask was added linker fragment 53 7.7 mg 20 mol which was dissolved in 0.33 mL of a 5 MeOH in CHClsolvent mixture. EEDQ 6.1 mg 25 mol was added and the reaction was stirred at room temperature under nitrogen for 15 minutes at which time PBD dimer 37 12 mg 16.5 mol was added. The reaction was stirred at room temperature under a nitrogen atmosphere for an additional 3 h at which time LC MS revealed conversion to product. The reaction was purified by radial chromatography on a 1 mm chromatotron plate eluted with CHCl MeOH mixtures 100 0 to 90 10 CHCl MeOH to provide 54 2.4 mg 13 . TLC R 0.44 10 MeOH in CHCl. Analytical HPLC 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid t11.53 min. LC MS t12.61 min m z ES found 1095.4 M H m z ES found 1093.9 M H .

 S 2 2 iodoacetamido N S 1 4 S 7 methoxy 8 3 S 7 methoxy 2 4 methoxyphenyl 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 8 yl oxy propoxy 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 2 yl phenyl amino 1 oxopropan 2 yl 3 methylbutanamide 56 A flame dried flask was charged with linker 55 7.8 mg 22 mol which was dissolved in 0.37 mL of a 5 MeOH in CHClsolvent mixture. EEDQ 6.8 mg 27.5 mol was added and the reaction was stirred at room temperature under nitrogen for 15 minutes at which time PBD dimer 37 13 mg 18 mol was added. The reaction was stirred at room temperature under a nitrogen atmosphere for an additional 4 h at which time LC MS revealed conversion to product. The reaction was purified by radial chromatography on a 1 mm chromatotron plate eluted with CHCl MeOH mixtures 100 0 to 80 20 CHCl MeOH to provide 56 3.5 mg 18 . Analytical HPLC 0.1 formic acid t11.43 min. LC MS t12.49 min m z ES found 1064.6 M H m z ES found 1098.9 M 2HO H .

6 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl N S 1 S 1 4 S 7 methoxy 8 5 S 7 methoxy 2 4 methoxyphenyl 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 8 yl oxy pentyl oxy 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 2 yl phenyl amino 1 oxopropan 2 yl amino 3 methyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl hexanamide 58 To a flame dried 10 mL flask was added linker fragment 36 19 mg 50 mol which was dissolved in 0.33 mL of a 5 MeOH in CHClsolvent mixture. EEDQ 12.4 mg 50 mol was added and the reaction was stirred at room temperature under nitrogen for 15 minutes at which time PBD dimer 57 12.5 mg 16.6 mol was added. The reaction was stirred at room temperature under a nitrogen atmosphere for an additional 5 h at which time LC MS revealed conversion to product. The reaction was purified by radial chromatography on a 1 mm chromatotron plate eluted with CHCl MeOH mixtures 100 0 to 80 20 CHCl MeOH to provide 58 2.1 mg 11 . Analytical HPLC 0.1 formic acid t12.19 min. LC MS t12.58 min m z ES found 1117.8 M H m z ES found 1133.7 M HO H .

 R 2 R 2 9H fluoren 9 yl methoxy carbonyl amino 3 methylbutanamido propanoic acid 60 A flame dried flask was charged with Fmoc D Valine 200 mg 0.59 mmol and 5.9 mL anhydrous THF. N hydroxysuccinimide 75 mg 0.65 mmol was added followed by diisopropylcarbodiimide 0.1 mL 0.65 mmol and the reaction was stirred at an ambient temperature overnight at which time LC MS revealed conversion to product. The reaction mixture was diluted with CHCland washed with water 50 mL brine 50 mL dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to dryness. The material was carried forward without further purification. LC MS t13.89 min m z ES found 437.0 M H . Crude Fmoc D Val OSu 0.59 mmol was dissolved in dimethoxyethane 1.5 mL and THF 0.8 mL . D alanine 73 mg 0.89 mmol was dissolved in 2.3 mL water and added to the reaction mixture followed by sodium bicarbonate 99 mg 1.2 mmol . The resulting slurry was stirred at room temperature overnight at which time the reaction had clarified and LC MS revealed completion. The reaction was poured into 50 mL CHCland the organic layer was washed with 50 mL 0.1 M HCl and then brine dried over sodium sulfate and then concentrated to dryness. The crude product was purified by radial chromatography on a 1 mm chromatotron plate eluted with CHClto provide 60 128 mg 54 . TLC R 0.18 10 MeOH in CHCl. Analytical HPLC 0.1 formic acid t9.47 min. LC MS t13.09 min m z ES found 411.1 M H m z ES found 409.2 M H .

 R 2 R 2 6 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl hexanamido 3 methylbutanamido propanoic acid 61 Protected dipeptide 60 70 mg 0.37 mmol was suspended in 6 mL anhydrous CHCl cooled on ice under nitrogen and 2 mL of diethylamine was added dropwise. The reaction was warmed to room temperature and stirred under nitrogen for 2 h at which time HPLC revealed consumption of starting material. The reaction was diluted with 6 mL of chloroform and concentrated. The crude reaction residue was re dissolved in 6 mL chloroform and concentrated twice followed by drying on a vacuum line for 2 h. The deprotected dipeptide was then dissolved in 3.7 mL anhydrous DMF. MC OSu 138 mg 0.44 mmol was then added followed by diisopropylethylamine 0.32 mL 1.9 mmol . The reaction was stirred under a nitrogen atmosphere at room temperature overnight. Workup was achieved by pouring the reaction in to 50 mL 0.1 M HCl and extracting with ethyl acetate 50 mL 3 . The combined organic layer was washed with water 50 mL and brine 50 mL dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The crude product was purified by radial chromatography on a 1 mm chromatotron plate eluted with CHCl MeOH mixtures 99 1 to 95 5 CHCl MeOH to provide 61 14 mg 22 . H NMR CDOD ppm 0.94 d J 14 Hz 3H 0.98 d J 14 Hz 3H 1.29 m 2H 1.39 d J 7.4 Hz 3H 1.61 m 4H 2.05 m 1H 2.25 dt J 1.2 7.4 Hz 2H 3.48 t J 7 Hz 2H 4.19 m 1H 4.37 m 1H 6.78 s 2H . Analytical HPLC 0.1 formic acid t10.04 min. LC MS t11.22 min m z ES found 382.1 M H m z ES found 380.0 M H .

6 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl N R 1 R 1 4 S 7 methoxy 8 3 S 7 methoxy 2 4 methoxyphenyl 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 8 yl oxy propoxy 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 2 yl phenyl amino 1 oxopropan 2 yl amino 3 methyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl hexanamide 62 To a flame dried 10 mL flask was added linker 61 9.5 mg 25 mol which was dissolved in 0.33 mL of a 5 MeOH in CHClsolvent mixture. EEDQ 7.3 mg 30 mol was added and the reaction was stirred at room temperature under nitrogen for 15 minutes at which time PBD dimer 37 12 mg 16.5 mol was added. The reaction was stirred at room temperature under a nitrogen atmosphere for an additional 3 h at which time LC MS revealed conversion to product. The reaction was purified by radial chromatography on a 1 mm chromatotron plate eluted with CHCl MeOH mixtures 100 0 to 80 20 CHCl MeOH to provide 62 2.8 mg 16 . TLC R 0.39 10 MeOH in CHCl. Analytical HPLC 0.1 formic acid t11.50 min. LC MS t12.50 min m z ES found 1089.7 M H m z ES found 1088.0 M H .

 S 2 6 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl hexanamido propanoic acid 64 L alanine 58 mg 0.65 mmol was suspended in 6.5 mL anhydrous DMF and MC OSu 35 100 mg 0.324 mmol was then added. Diisopropylethylamine 0.28 mL 1.6 mmol was added and the reaction was stirred overnight at room temperature under nitrogen. The reaction was then diluted with 50 mL 0.1 M HCl and the aqueous layer was then extracted with ethyl acetate 50 mL 3 . The combined organic layer was then washed with water 50 mL and brine 50 mL dried over sodium sulfate and then concentrated to dryness. The reaction was purified by radial chromatography on a 1 mm chromatotron plate eluted with CHCl MeOH mixtures 97.5 2.5 to 90 10 CHCl MeOH to provide 64 25 mg 27 . TLC R 0.25 10 MeOH in CHCl. H NMR CDOD ppm 1.30 m 2H 1.37 d J 7.4 Hz 3H 1.60 m 4H 2.21 t J 7.4 Hz 2H 3.48 t J 7 Hz 2H 4.35 q J 7.4 Hz 1H 6.78 s 2H . Analytical HPLC 0.1 formic acid t9.06 min.

6 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl N S 1 4 S 7 methoxy 8 3 S 7 methoxy 2 4 methoxyphenyl 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 8 yl oxy propoxy 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 2 yl phenyl amino 1 oxopropan 2 yl hexanamide 65 To a flame dried 10 mL flask was added linker 64 14 mg 50 mol which was dissolved in 0.66 mL of a 5 MeOH in CHClsolvent mixture. EEDQ 15 mg 60 mol was added and the reaction was stirred at room temperature under nitrogen for 15 minutes at which time PBD dimer 37 24 mg 33 mol was added. The reaction was stirred at room temperature under a nitrogen atmosphere for an additional 4 h. The reaction was purified by radial chromatography on a 1 mm chromatotron plate eluted with CHCl MeOH mixtures 100 0 to 90 10 CHCl MeOH to provide 65 3.5 mg 11 . Analytical HPLC 0.1 formic acid t11.40 min. LC MS t12.39 min m z ES found 990.6 M H m z ES found 989.0 M H .

PBD Dimer 57 Linked Directly Through Maleimidocaproyl Spacer Scheme 14 PBD dimer 57 is coupled to maleimidocaproic acid 39 employing the chemistry described in Scheme 2.

6 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl N 2 S 7 methoxy 8 3 S 7 methoxy 2 4 methoxyphenyl 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 8 yl oxy propoxy 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 2 yl phenyl hexanamide 68 To a mixture of the 66 10 mg 0.013 mmol in CHCl 300 L was added DIPEA and MC Cl 67 3 mg 0.013 mmol . After 1 h an additional 3 equiv. of DIPEA 7 L and 2 equiv. of the acid chloride 6 mg 0.026 mmol were added. After 1 h an additional quantity of DIPEA 7 L and acid chloride 6 mg 0.026 mmol were added. After an additional 3 h the reaction mixture was aspirated directly onto a 1 mm radial chromatotron plate and eluted with dichloromethane followed by a gradient of methanol 1 to 5 in dichloromethane. Product containing fractions as a mixture with the starting aniline were concentrated to a residue and dissolved in a mixture of 0.5 mL DMSO 0.5 mL acetonitrile and 0.5 mL deionized water and was further purified by preparative HPLC. The major peak was collected and the fractions were combined frozen and lyophilized to give 2.1 mg 18 MS ES m z 919.2 M H .

Note Acid chloride 67 was prepared by dissolving 100 mg of 39 in oxalyl chloride 5 mL . A drop of DMF was added and the mixture was stirred at an ambient temperature for several hours before being concentrated under reduced pressure. Dichloromethane was added and the mixture was concentrated a second time to afford an off white solid which was used directly H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 6.70 s 2H 3.46 t J 7 Hz 2H 2.82 t J 7.2 Hz 2H 1.72 pent J 7.6 Hz 2H 1.61 pent J 7.4 Hz 2H 1.35 pent J 7.6 Hz 2H .

tert butyl 2 2 aminoacetamido acetate 69 To a mixture of the glycine tert butyl ester hydrogen chloride salt 70 484 mg 2.9 mmol in dichloromethane 25 mL was added Fmoc Gly OH 71 0.861 mg 2.99 mmol DIPEA 756 mg 4.35 mmol and HATU 1.3 g 3.5 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at an ambient temperature for 16 h and then poured into ethyl acetate and was washed with water 3 and brine 1 . The organic phase was dried over MgSO4 filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was purified via radial chromatography on a 2 mm plate eluting with 5 methanol dichloromethane. Product containing fractions were concentrated under reduced pressure and treated with 20 piperidine dichloromethane 10 mL for 1 h before being concentrated under reduced pressure and then purified twice via radial chromatography on a 2 mm plate eluting with a gradient of 5 to 10 methanol dichloromethane to provide 200 mg 37 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.62 s 1H 4.00 s 2H 3.39 s 2H 1.47 s 9H .

2 2 6 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl hexanamido acetamido acetic acid 72 To a solution of the amine 69 200 mg 0.11 mmol in DMF 1 mL was added 35 350 mg 0.11 mmol and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir at an ambient temperature for 2 h. The mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and was purify by radial chromatography on a 1 mm plate eluting with dichloromethane and a gradient of methanol 1 to 5 in dichloromethane. Product containing fractions were concentrated under reduced pressure dissolved in dichloromethane 4 mL and treated with trifluoroacetic acid 4 mL . After 40 min the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the resulting residue was dissolved in dichloromethane and concentrated to give 22.5 mg 19 of 72 as white solid H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 6.79 s 2H 3.93 s 2H 3.89 s 2H 3.49 t J 6.8 Hz 2H 2.26 t J 6.8 Hz 2H 1.61 m 4H 1.34 m 2H MS ES m z 326.21 M H .

6 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl N 2 2 4 S 7 methoxy 8 3 S 7 methoxy 2 4 methoxyphenyl 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 8 yl oxy propoxy 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 2 yl phenyl amino 2 oxoethyl amino 2 oxoethyl hexanamide 73 To a mixture of 72 15 mg 0.046 mmol in 5 methanol dichloromethane 0.5 mL was added EEDQ 11 mg 0.046 mmol and the mixture was stirred for 30 min at an ambient temperature at which time 37 16 mg 0.023 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was stirred for 3 h and was purified directly on a 1 mm radial chromatotron plate eluting with a 1 to 4 methanol dichloromethane gradient to give 6.8 mg 29 of 73 as a yellow solid MS ES m z 1033.57 M H .

 S tert butyl 1 S pyrrolidine 2 carbonyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylate 74 To a mixture of L proline tert butyl ester hydrogen chloride salt 75 0.5 g 2.9 mmol in dichloromethane 50 mL was added 76 0.98 g 2.99 mmol DIPEA 756 mg 4.35 mmol and HATU 1.3 g 3.5 mmol . The reaction mixture was allowed to stir at an ambient temperature for 16 h. The mixture was poured into ethyl acetate 100 mL and was washed with 0.2 N HCl 50 mL water 50 mL brine 50 mL and dried over MgSO. Chromatography was conducted on a 2 mm radial chromatotron plate eluting with 10 ethyl acetate in hexanes. Product containing fractions were concentrated under reduced pressure dissolved in dichloromethane 8 mL and treated with piperidine 2 mL . The mixture was stirred for 1 h concentrated under reduced pressure and purified on a 2 mm radial chromatotron plate eluting with 5 methanol dichloromethane. This gave 200 mg 26 of the dipeptide 74 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 4.41 m 1H 4.17 m 1H 3.82 m 1H 3.57 m 4H 3.2 m 1H 2.82 m 1H 2.83 1.65 m 5H 1.44 m 9H .

 S tert butyl 1 S 1 6 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl hexanoyl pyrrolidine 2 carbonyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylate 77 To a mixture of the amine 74 200 mg 0.75 mmol 39 190 mg 0.9 mmol and DIPEA 0.32 mL 1.8 mmol was added HATU 342 mg 0.9 mmol and the mixture was allowed to stir at an ambient temperature for 5 h. The mixture was poured into ethyl acetate 100 mL and washed with water 3 100 mL and brine 1 100 mL . The organic phase was dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The resulting residue was subjected to radial chromatography on a 2 mm radial chromatotron plate eluting with dichloromethane followed by an increasing gradient of 1 to 5 methanol in dichloromethane. Two additional purifications both eluting with a gradient of 1 to 5 methanol in dichloromethane first on a 2 mm plate and then on a 1 mm plate afforded 113 mg 33 of 77 as an white solid H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 4.63 m 1H 4.41 m 1H 3.82 m 1H 3.6 3 m 1H 3.55 m 1H 3.45 m 3H 2.38 1.83 m 10H 1.70 1.50 m 5H 1.45 m 9H 1.35 m 2H MS ES m z 462.33 M H .

 S 1 S 1 6 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl hexanoyl pyrrolidine 2 carbonyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid 78 To a mixture of the tert butyl ester 77 in dichloromethane 4 mL was added trifluoroacetic acid 4 mL . After 40 min the reaction was determined to be complete by HPLC analysis. The mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the resulting residue was dissolved in dichloromethane and concentrated a second time to give 37 mg 100 of 78 as a white solid H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 6.68 s 2H 4.62 m 2H 3.81 m 1H 3.70 m 1H 3.57 m 2H 3.45 m 2H 2.40 1.91 m 10H 1.70 1.45 m 4H 1.33 m 2H MS ES m z 406.2 M H .

1 1 6 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl hexanoyl pyrrolidine 2 carbonyl N 4 S 7 methoxy 8 3 S 7 methoxy 2 4 methoxyphenyl 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 8 yl oxy propoxy 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 2 yl phenyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxamide 79 To a mixture of the 78 9.3 mg 0.023 mmol in 5 methanol dichloromethane 0.4 mL was added EEDQ 7 mg 0.027 mmol . The mixture was stirred for 15 min at an ambient temperature and then 37 15 mg 0.021 mmol was added. The mixture was stirred for 4 h the reaction mixture was diluted with dichloromethane 2 mL and was aspirated directly onto a 1 mm radial chromatotron plate. The product was eluted with a gradient of 1 to 5 methanol in dichloromethane to provide 6.8 mg 29 of 79 as a yellow solid MS ES m z 1113.51 M H .

 S 5 allyloxy 2 S 2 allyloxy carbonyl amino 3 methylbutanamido 5 oxopentanoic acid 80 To a mixture of the 2 chlorotrityl resin 1.0 g 1.01 mmol suspended in dichloromethane 10 ml was added Fmoc Glu OAllyl OH 81 409 mg 1.0 mmol and DIPEA 173 L 1.0 mmol . The reaction mixture was shaken for 5 min and an additional portion of DIPEA 260 L 1.5 mmol was added and the mixture was shaken for 1 h. Methanol 0.8 mL was added and the mixture was shaken for 5 min before being filtered and washed with DMF 6 dichloromethane 6 diethyl ether 6 and dried under reduced pressure. The resulting resin was subjected to 20 piperidine in dichloromethane 10 mL for 1 h before being filtered and washed with DMF 6 dichloromethane 6 diethyl ether 6 and dried under reduced pressure.

To a mixture of the Fmoc Val OH 82 1.03 g 3.30 mmol in DMF 7 mL was added DIPEA 1.0 mL and HATU 1.1 g 3.03 mmol . After thorough mixing the solution as aspirated into a 10 mL syringe containing the resin prepared above. The mixture was capped and shaken for 16 h. The resin was washed with DMF 6 dichloromethane 6 and ether 6 . A small portion 10 mg was isolated and treated with 20 TFA Dichloromethane and the resulting solution analyzed by LC MS which revealed one high purity peak which displayed the correct mass MS ES m z 509.28 M H . The remaining resin was then treated with 20 piperidine DMF 8 mL for 2 h before being washed with DMF 6 dichloromethane 6 diethyl ether 6 and dried under reduced pressure.

A mixture of allyl chloroformate 529 L 5.05 mmol DIPEA 1.7 mL 10 mmol in dichloromethane 10 mL was prepared and aspirated into a syringe containing the resin above. The mixture was capped and shaken. After approximately 2 h the reaction mixture was drained and washed with dichloromethane 6 . A small portion of the resin 10 mg was cleaved with 20 TFA dichloromethane and analyzed by LC MS for masses of starting material and product. The main component was still the unreacted amine so the resin was again subjected to the conditions described above. After 4 h the resin was washed with dichloromethane 6 and then treated repeatedly with 5 TFA in dichloromethane 4 7 mL . The resulting solution was concentrated under reduced pressure. The mixture was purified on a 2 mm radial chromatotron plate eluting with 5 methanol dichloromethane to give 107 mg of 80 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.05 s 1H 5.90 m 2H 5.57 d 1H 5.29 d J 14.7 Hz 2H 5.22 t J 10.9 Hz 2H 4.59 m 5H 4.02 m 1H 2.60 2.40 m 2H 2.37 2.18 m 1H 2.17 2.02 m 2H 0.96 d J 6.4 Hz 3H 0.93 d J 6.6 Hz 3H MS ES m z 371.12 M H .

 S allyl 4 S 2 allyloxy carbonyl amino 3 methylbutanamido 5 4 S 7 methoxy 8 3 S 7 methoxy 2 4 methoxyphenyl 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 8 yl oxy propoxy 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 2 yl phenyl amino 5 oxopentanoate 83 To a mixture of the acid 80 30 0.04 mmol in 5 methanol dichloromethane 1 mL was added EEDQ 20 mg 0.082 mmol . The mixture was stirred for 30 min at an ambient temperature and then 37 30 mg 0.04 mmol was added and the mixture was stirred for approximately 5 h. Partially purification by aspirating directly onto a 1 mm radial chromatotron plate and eluting with a gradient of 1 to 5 methanol dichloromethane afforded a mixture of desired product and 37 26 mg 3 1 respectively which was carried forward without further purification.

 S 4 S 2 amino 3 methylbutanamido 5 4 S 7 methoxy 8 3 S 7 methoxy 2 4 methoxyphenyl 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 8 yl oxy propoxy 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 2 yl phenyl amino 5 oxopentanoic acid 84 To the mixture of 83 and 37 26 mg in anhydrous dichloromethane 3 mL was added PhP 0.3 mg 0.0012 mmol pyrrolidine 4 L 0.048 mmol and tetrakis palladium 0.7 mg 0.6 mol . After 2 h an additional quantity 0.7 mg 0.6 mol of tetrakis palladium was added and the reaction was allowed to stir for an additional 1 hr before being concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in DMSO 1 mL acetonitrile with 0.05 formic acid 1 mL and water with 0.05 formic acid 1 mL and purified by preparative reverse phase HPLC. A single fraction of product was collected and lyophilized to give 6 mg 14 for two steps of 84 MS ES m z 1078.6 M H .

 S 4 S 2 6 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl hexanamido 3 methylbutanamido 5 4 S 7 methoxy 8 3 S 7 methoxy 2 4 methoxyphenyl 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 8 yl oxy propoxy 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 2 yl phenyl amino 5 oxopentanoic acid 85 To a mixture of the 84 6 mg 6 mol and 35 2 mg 6 mol in DMF 200 L was added DIPEA 3 L 18 mol and the reaction mixture was stirred at an ambient temperature. After 1 h an additional equivalent of 35 2 mg 6 mol was added and the reaction was allowed to continue to stir at an ambient temperature for 3 h. A third equivalent of 35 2 mg 6 mol was added and the mixture was stirred for approximately 1 h concentrated under reduced pressure dissolved in dichloromethane and aspirated directly onto a 1 mm radial chromatotron plate and eluted with 5 methanol in dichloromethane. This gave 2.5 mg 36 of high purity 85 MS ES m z 1147.49 M H .

 21S 24S 1 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl 21 isopropyl 24 4 S 7 methoxy 8 3 S 7 methoxy 2 4 methoxyphenyl 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 8 yl oxy propoxy 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 2 yl phenyl carbamoyl 3 19 22 trioxo 7 10 13 16 tetraoxa 4 20 23 triazaheptacosan 27 oic acid 86 To a mixture of the 84 8 mg 8.4 mol and Mal PEG4 NHS 87 6.5 mg 12.6 mol in DMF 200 L was added DIPEA 4.3 L 25 mol . The reaction mixture was stirred at an ambient temperature for 2 h and was concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was dissolved in dichloromethane and aspirated onto a 1 mm radial chromatotron plate. The material was polar and did not chromatograph on the silica gel based chromatotron plate. The plate was eluted with methanol to recover the mixture which was isolated under reduced pressure. The residual material was purified via preparative reverse phase HPLC. A single main peak eluted and the fractions were combined frozen and lyophilized to a residue of 0.9 mg 8 of 86 MS ES m z 1353.04 M H .

 S 6 dimethylamino 2 6 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl hexanamido hexanoic acid 88 To a mixture of the 2 chlorotrityl resin 1 g 1.01 mmol in CHCl 10 ml was added Fmoc Lys Me 2 OH 89 432 mg 1.0 mmol and DIPEA 433 L 2.5 mmol . The reaction mixture was shaken for 1 h. Methanol 0.8 mL was added and the mixture was shaken for an additional 5 min before being filtered and washed with DMF 6 dichloromethane 6 diethyl ether 6 and dried under reduced pressure. The dried resin was subjected to 20 piperidine in DMF 10 mL for 1 h before being filtered and washed with DMF 6 dichloromethane 6 diethyl ether 6 .

To a mixture of the 39 3.0 mmol 633 mg in DMF 7 mL was added DIPEA 1.0 mL and HATU 1.1 g 3.03 mmol . After thorough mixing the solution as aspirated into a 10 mL syringe containing the resin above. The mixture was capped shaken for 16 h filtered and the resin washed with DMF 6 dichloromethane 6 and ethyl ether 6 . The resin was by repeatedly treating with 5 TFA dichloromethane 6 mL 5 shaking for 1 min and then filtering. The resulting solution was concentrated under reduced pressure and under high vacuum. The material was purified by preparatory reverse phase HPLC to give 208 mg of 88 H NMR 400 MHz CDOH CDCl1 1 mixture 6.73 s 2H 4.41 m 1H 3.48 t 2H 3.31 s 1H 3.03 m 2H 2.84 s 6H 2.22 m 2H 1.87 m 2H 1.78 1.52 m 6H 1.43 m 2H 1.31 pent 2H MS ES m z 386.28 M H .

 S 6 dimethylamino 2 6 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl hexanamido N 4 S 7 methoxy 8 3 S 7 methoxy 2 4 methoxyphenyl 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 8 yl oxy propoxy 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 2 yl phenyl hexanamide 90 To a mixture of the 88 9.3 mg 0.023 mmol in 5 methanol dichloromethane 400 L was added EEDQ 7 mg 0.027 mmol . The mixture was stirred for 30 min at an ambient temperature and then 37 15 mg 0.021 mmol was added. After 4 h the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure dissolved in a mixture of DMSO 1 mL acetonitrile 2 mL containing 0.05 formic acid and water 1 mL containing 0.05 formic acid and purified by reverse phase HPLC method A . Product containing fractions were contaminated with 37 so the fractions were lyophilized to a residue and repurified as described above to give 0.5 mg 2 of pure 90 MS ES m z 537.46 M H 2.

Allyl S 1 S 1 4 S 7 methoxy 8 3 S 7 methoxy 2 4 methoxyphenyl 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 8 yl oxy propoxy 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 2 yl phenyl amino 1 oxopropan 2 yl amino 3 methyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl carbamate 91 To a mixture of the 92 45 mg 0.123 mmol in 5 methanol dichloromethane 1 mL was added EEDQ 30.4 mg 0.123 mmol . The mixture was stirred for 30 min at an ambient temperature and then 37 30 mg 0.041 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was stirred for approximately 5 h and then purified on a 1 mm radial chromatotron plate eluting with 5 methanol dichloromethane to give 22 mg 55 of 91 which was not characterized but carried on directly.

1 3 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl propanamido N S 1 S 1 4 S 7 methoxy 8 3 S 7 methoxy 2 4 methoxyphenyl 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 8 yl oxy propoxy 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 2 yl phenyl amino 1 oxopropan 2 yl amino 3 methyl 1 oxobutan 2 yl 3 6 9 12 tetraoxapentadecan 15 amide 93 To a solution of the 91 22 mg 0.022 mmol in anhydrous dichloromethane 3 mL was added PhP 0.3 mg 0.0012 mmol pyrrolidine 4 L 0.048 mmol and tetrakis palladium 0.7 mg 6 mol . After approximately 2 h the reaction mixture was purified on a 1 mm radial chromatotron plate eluting with 5 to 10 methanol dichloromethane. The major band was collected and concentrated to a residue which was dissolved in DMF 0.2 mL and reacted with NHS ester 87 10 mg 0.19 mmol . The reaction was allowed to stir for 30 min concentrated and purified by radial chromatography on a 1 mm plate eluting with 5 methanol dichloromethane to give 3.2 mg 11 of 93 MS ES m z 1294.7 M H .

 E 6 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl N 4 S 7 methoxy 8 5 S 7 methoxy 2 4 methoxyphenyl 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 8 yl oxy pentyl oxy 5 oxo 5 11a dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 1 c 1 4 benzodiazepin 2 yl benzylidene hexanehydrazide 94 To a mixture of the aldehyde 95 5.4 mg 7 mol in 5 methanol dichloromethane at 0 C. was added the hydrazide TFA salt 96 4.5 mg 14 mol . The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to an ambient temperature and stir for 5 h before being concentrated under reduced pressure and purified on a silica gel column eluting with 3 methanol dichloromethane to give 2.2 mg 32 of 94 MS ES m z 974.49 M H .

 S tert butyl 2 S 2 amino 3 methylbutanamido propanoate 97 To a mixture of the alanine O tert butyl ester hydrogen chloride salt 98 500 mg 2.76 mmol in dichloromethane 5 mL was added Fmoc val OSu 99 1.09 g 2.51 mmol . DIPEA 0.96 ml 5.5 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir at an ambient temperature for 16 h. The mixture was poured into dichloromethane 100 mL and washed with 1N HCl 50 mL and water 50 mL before being dried over magnesium sulfate. The material was chromatographed on a 2 mm radial chromatotron plate eluting with 1 to 5 methanol dichloromethane gradient and product containing fractions were combined and concentrated. The resulting residue was dissolved in dichloromethane 16 mL and piperidine 4 mL was added. The mixture was stirred for 10 min before being concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was chromatographed on a 2 mm plate eluting first with ammonia saturated dichloromethane followed by 5 methanol in ammonia saturated dichloromethane to give 494 mg 2.02 mmol 81 for two steps of 97 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.78 bs 1H 4.47 m 1H 3.30 d 1H 2.30 m 1H 1.38 d 3H 1.47 s 9H 1.00 d J 7.0 Hz 3H 0.84 d J 6.9 Hz 3H .

 S tert butyl 2 S 2 4 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl benzamido 3 methylbutanamido propanoate 100 To a mixture of the 97 100 mg 0.41 mmol and maleimidobenzoic acid 101 98 mg 0.45 mmol was added dichloromethane 5 mL followed by TBTU 157 mg 0.49 mmol and DIPEA 212 uL 1.23 mmol . The mixture was stirred at an ambient temperature for 16 h and then purified on a 2 mm radial chromatotron plate eluting with 50 ethyl acetate in hexanes to give 95 mg 51 of 100 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.85 d J 6.6 Hz 2H 7.42 d J 6.6 Hz 2H 6.81 s 2H 6.38 bs 1H 4.43 m 2H 2.14 sept J 6.6 Hz 1H 1.41 s 9H 1.31 d J 7.0 Hz 3H 0.98 m 6H MS ES m z 441.90 M H .

 R 2 S 2 4 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl benzamido 3 methylbutanamido propanoic acid 53 To a mixture of 100 47 mg 0.11 mmol in dichloromethane 5 mL was added trifluoroacetic acid 5 mL and the reaction mixture was monitored by TLC 50 ethyl acetate in hexane after pumping down the TLC plate under high vacuum for 5 min . After 75 min no starting material could be detected by TLC. The reaction was performed a second time using the same conditions and material from both reactions were combined and purified on a 2 mm radial chromatotron plate eluting with a gradient from 5 10 methanol in dichloromethane. The yield was 42 mg 49 of 53 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.92 d J 6.6 Hz 2H 7.51 d J 6.6 Hz 2H 7.0 m 1H 6.89 s 2H 6.70 s 1H 4.60 M 1H 2.22 m 1H 1.18 d J 6.6 Hz 3H 1.04 m 6H MS ES m z 388.02 M H .

 S 2 S 2 2 iodoacetamido 3 methylbutanamido propanoic acid 102 To a mixture of the 97 100 mg 0.41 mmol in dichloromethane was added iodoacetamide NHS ester 103 115 mg 0.41 mmol and the mixture was stirred at an ambient temperature. After 30 min the mixture was aspirated onto a 1 mm chromototron plate and eluted with ethyl acetate in hexanes 1 1 . A single band was collected and the structure was confirmed H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 6.70 d J 7.8 Hz 1H 6.27 d J 7.0 Hz 1H 4.45 m 1H 4.26 dd J 8.6 6.3 Hz 1H 3.72 quart J 11.3 Hz 2H 2.13 sept J 6.5 Hz 1H 1.47 s 9H 1.38 d J 7.1 Hz 3H 0.99 m 6H MS ES m z 412.87 M H .

 S 2 S 2 2 iodoacetamido 3 methylbutanamido propanoic acid 55 See procedure for the synthesis of R 2 S 2 4 2 5 dioxo 2 5 dihydro 1H pyrrol 1 yl benzamido 3 methylbutanamido propanoic acid 53 . This gave 22 mg 15 for two steps H NMR 400 MHz D DMSO 8.27 d J 9.4 Hz 1H 4.24 m 2H 3.97 bs 2H 3.83 d J 9.4 Hz 1H 3.71 d J 9.6 Hz 1H 2.07 m 1H 1.33 d J 7.3 Hz 3H 0.93 d J 6.7 Hz 3H 0.89 d J 6.9 Hz 3H MS ES m z 354.84 M H .

PBD dimers linked through aliphatic amines Scheme 21 . PBD dimers containing aliphatic amines such as a benzyl amine Example 9 are synthesized with peptidic linkers the glucuronide linker and or linkers dependent on mAb degradation for release i.e. non cleavable linkers . Drug linkers conjugated through a benzyl amine will include 1 a cleavable peptide employing chemistry similar to Scheme 1 2 direct attachment with a maleimidocaproyl group a noncleavable linker Scheme 2 3 a glucuronide linker prepared as described in Scheme 6.

Generic peptide linked 2 3 and 4 aniline PBD dimers Scheme 22 . PBD dimers with anilines at the 2 3 and 4 positions will be conjugated to peptide based linkers employing the chemistry described in Scheme 1 or attached directly with maleimidocaproic acid as exemplified in Scheme 2.

Antibody drug conjugates were prepared as previously described see Doronina et al. 21 778 784 2003 or as described below. Briefly for maleimide drug linker the mAbs 4 5 mg mL in PBS containing 50 mM sodium borate at pH 7.4 were reduced with tris carboxyethyl phosphine hydrochloride TCEP at 37 C. The progress of the reaction which reduces interchain disulfides was monitored by reaction with 5 5 dithiobis 2 nitrobenzoic acid and allowed to proceed until the desired level of thiols mAb was achieved. The reduced antibody was then cooled to 0 C. and alkylated with 1.5 equivalents of maleimide drug linker per antibody thiol. After 1 h the reaction was quenched by the addition of 5 equivalents of N acetyl cysteine. Quenched drug linker was removed by gel filtration over a PD 10 column. The ADC was then sterile filtered through a 0.22 m syringe filter. Protein concentration was determined by spectral analysis at 280 nm and 329 nm respectively with correction for the contribution of drug absorbance at 280 nm. Size exclusion chromatography was used to determine the extent of antibody aggregation and RP HPLC confirmed the absence of remaining NAC quenched drug linker.

For halo acetamide based drug linkers conjugation was performed generally as follows To a 10 mg mL solution of reduced and reoxidized antibody having introduced cysteines by substitution of S239C in the heavy chains see infra in 10 mM Tris pH 7.4 50 mM NaCl and 2 mM DTPA was added 0.5 volumes of propylene glycol. A 10 mM solution of acetamide based drug linker in dimethylacetamide was prepared immediately prior to conjugation. An equivalent amount of propylene glycol as added to the antibody solution was added to a 6 fold molar excess of the drug linker. The dilute drug linker solution was added to the antibody solution and the pH was adjusted to 8.0 8.5 using 1 M Tris pH 9 . The conjugation reaction was allowed to proceed for 45 minutes at 37 C. The conjugation was verified by reducing and denaturing reversed phase PLRP S chromatography. Excess drug linker was removed with Quadrasil MP resin Sigma Aldrich Product 679526 and the buffer was exchanged into 10 mM Tris pH 7.4 50 mM NaCl and 5 propylene glycol using a PD 10 desalting column GE Heathcare Product 17 0851 01 .

Engineered hlgG1 antibodies with introduced cysteines CD70 antibodies containing a cysteine residue at position 239 of the heavy chain h1F6d were fully reduced by adding 10 equivalents of TCEP and 1 mM EDTA and adjusting the pH to 7.4 with 1M Tris buffer pH 9.0 . Following a 1 hour incubation at 37 C. the reaction was cooled to 22 C. and 30 equivalents of dehydroascorbic acid were added to selectively reoxidize the native disulfides while leaving cysteine 239 in the reduced state. The pH was adjusted to 6.5 with 1M Tris buffer pH 3.7 and the reaction was allowed to proceed for 1 hour at 22 C. The pH of the solution was then raised again to 7.4 by addition of 1 M Tris buffer pH 9.0 . 3.5 equivalents of the PBD drug linker in DMSO were placed in a suitable container for dilution with propylene glycol prior to addition to the reaction. To maintain solubility of the PBD drug linker the antibody itself was first diluted with propylene glycol to a final concentration of 33 e.g. if the antibody solution was in a 60 mL reaction volume 30 mL of propylene glycol was added . This same volume of propylene glycol 30 mL in this example was then added to the PBD drug linker as a diluent. After mixing the solution of PBD drug linker in propylene glycol was added to the antibody solution to effect the conjugation the final concentration of propylene glycol is 50 . The reaction was allowed to proceed for 30 minutes and then quenched by addition of 5 equivalents of N acetyl cysteine. The ADC was then purified by ultrafiltration through a 30 kD membrane. Note that the concentration of propylene glycol used in the reaction can be reduced for any particular PBD as its sole purpose is to maintain solubility of the drug linker in the aqueous media. 

The in vitro cytotoxic activity of the selected antibody drug conjugates was assessed using a resazurin Sigma St. Louis Mo. USA reduction assay reference Doronina et al. 2003 21 778 784 . The antibody drug conjugates were prepared as described above in Example 13.

For the 96 hour assay cells cultured in log phase growth were seeded for 24 h in 96 well plates containing 150 L RPMI 1640 supplemented with 20 FBS. Serial dilutions of ADC in cell culture media were prepared at 4 working concentration 50 L of each dilution was added to the 96 well plates. Following addition of ADC the cells were incubated with test articles for 4 days at 37 C. Resazurin was then added to each well to achieve a 50 M final concentration and the plates were incubated for an additional 4 h at 37 C. The plates were then read for the extent of dye reduction on a Fusion HT plate reader Packard Instruments Meridien Conn. USA with excitation and emission wavelengths of 530 and 590 nm respectively. The ICvalue determined in triplicate is defined here as the concentration that results in a 50 reduction in cell growth relative to untreated controls.

Referring to Table 4 infra the in vitro cytotoxicity of ADCs having para aniline PBD dimers using the 96 hour assay is shown. The ADCs were tested against CD70 CD30 cell lines and a control CD70 CD30 cell line. The antibodies used were a CD70 antibody humanized 1F6 see Published U.S. Application No. 2009 148942 a CD30 antibody chimeric AC10 see Published U.S. Application No. 2008 0213289 and a CD70 antibody humanized 1F6 having introduced cysteine residues at amino acid heavy chain position 239 according to the EU numbering system indicated as h1F6d . Conjugates having a maleimidyl peptide linker drug linker compound 38 had a lower ICthan conjugates with a maleimidyl or acetamide based linker compounds 40 and 41 respectively .

Referring to Table 5 the in vitro cytotoxicity of ADCs conjugate to PBD dimers on CD30 cell lines using the 96 hour assay is shown. The ADCs were tested against CD30CD70 cell lines and a CD70 CD30 cell line. The antibodies used were a CD70 antibody humanized 1F6 see Published U.S. Application No. 2009 148942 and a CD30 antibody chimeric AC10 see Published U.S. Application No. 2008 0213289 . Conjugates having a maleimidyl peptide linker drug linker compound 38 generally had a lower ICthan conjugates with a maleimidyl or acetamide based linker compounds 40 and 41 respectively .

Referring to Table 6 the in vitro cytotoxicity of ADCs containing PBD dimers on CD30 cell lines using the 96 hour assay is shown. The activity was tested against CD30CD70 cell lines and a CD70 CD30 cell line. The antibodies used were a CD70 antibody humanized 1F6 see Published U.S. Application No. 2009 148942 and a CD70 antibody humanized 1F6 having introduced cysteine residues at amino acid heavy chain position 239 according to the EU numbering system indicated as h1F6d . Conjugates having a maleimidyl peptide linker drug linker compound 43 and a glucuronide linker 48 generally had a lower ICthan conjugates with a maleimidyl based linker compound 44 .

In vitro cytotoxic activity of ADCs bearing drug linkers derived from para and meta aniline PBD dimers 38 and 42 respectively 

Referring to Table 7 the in vitro cytotoxicity of ADCs containing PBD dimers on CD70 cell lines using the 96 hour assay is shown. The activity was tested against CD70 cell lines L428 and 7860 and a CD70 AML cell line. The antibodies used were a CD70 antibody humanized 1F6 see Published U.S. Application No. 2009 148942 and a CD70 antibody humanized 1F6 having introduced cysteine residues at amino acid heavy chain position 239 according to the EU numbering system indicated as h1F6d . Conjugates having a maleimidyl peptide linker with a meta aniline drug linker compound 43 were somewhat less active than those having a maleimidyl peptide linker with a para aniline drug linker compound 38 . Reducing the drug loading of the meta aniline compound to 2 per antibody reduced the activity. Conjugates with a glucuronide linker of the para aniline compound 48 generally had a lower ICthan conjugates with a maleimidyl based linker compound 39 . Further an aryl maleimide of the para aniline compound 54 has no activity on these cell lines. Further a conjugate having a maleimidyl linker conjugated directly to compound 42 has reduced activity as compared with conjugate h1F6 43 data not shown .

Referring to Table 8 the in vitro cytotoxicity of ADCs containing PBD dimers on CD70 cell lines using the 96 hour assay is shown. The activity was tested against CD70 cell lines Caki 1 and L428 and a CD70 cell line. The antibody used was a CD70 antibody humanized 1F6 having introduced cysteine residues at amino acid heavy chain position 239 according to the EU numbering system indicated as h1F6d . Linkage of a PBD through an amine at the ortho position via a non cleavable linker compound 68 markedly reduced activity as compared with an ADC linked via a para aniline linked cleavable linker compound 54 . Compounds 73 and 85 having a cleavable linker showed comparable activity to compound 54 both of these compounds are linked via a para aniline. Compounds with cleavable linkers requiring more stringeng cleavage compounds 79 and 90 showed somewhat reduced activity as compared to compound 54.

Referring to Table 9 the in vitro cytotoxicity of ADCs containing PBD dimers on CD70 cell lines using the 96 hour assay is shown. The activity was tested against CD70 cell lines Caki 1 and L428 and two CD70 leukemia cell lines. The antibodies used were a CD70 antibody humanized 1F6 see Published U.S. Application No. 2009 148942 and a CD70 antibody humanized 1F6 having introduced cysteine residues at amino acid heavy chain position 239 according to the EU numbering system indicated as h1F6d . Compound 56 having a cleavable linker linked to the antibody via an acetamide showed comparable activity to compound 38. A glucuronide linked version of the meta aniline linked PBD dimer compound 48 demonstrated little activity in this assay. Compound 58 having five methylene groups in the PBD bridge demonstrated comparable activity to compound 38 having three methylene groups in the PBD bridge.

All studies were conducted in concordance with the Animal Care and Use Committee in a facility fully accredited by the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care. In vivo tolerability was first assessed to ensure that the conjugates were tolerated at clinically relevant doses. BALB c mice were treated with escalating doses of ADC formulated in PBS with 0.01 Tween 20. Mice were monitored for weight loss following drug treatment those that experienced 20 weight loss or other signs of morbidity were euthanized. The antibodies used were a CD70 antibody humanized 1F6 see Published U.S. Application No. 2009 148942 and a CD30 antibody chimeric AC10 see Published U.S. Application No. 2008 0213289 .

Referring to the results of a weight loss study are shown using cAC10 val ala SG3132 2 cAC10 compound 38 . A single dose of the conjugate administered at 5 mg administered either IP or IV resulted in little weight loss. A higher dose of the conjugate 15 mg kg caused weight loss in the mice.

Referring to the results of a weight loss study are shown using h1F6 val ala SG3132 2 h1F6 compound 38 . A single dose of the conjugate administered at 5 mg administered IP resulted in some weight loss. A higher dose of the conjugate 10 mg kg caused significant weight loss in the mice.

Treatment studies were conducted in two CD70 renal cell carcinoma xenograft models. Tumor 786 O and Caki 1 fragments were implanted into the right flank of Nude mice. Mice were randomized to study groups n 5 on day eight 786 O or nine Caki 1 with each group averaging around 100 mm. The ADC or controls were dosed ip according to a q4dx4 schedule. Tumor volume as a function of time was determined using the formula L W 2. Animals were euthanized when tumor volumes reached 1000 mm. Mice showing durable regressions were terminated around day 100 post implant.

Referring to the results of a treatment study using an h1F6 val ala SG3132 2 h1F6 compound 38 conjugate are shown. A control conjugate cAC10 val ala SG3132 2 cAC10 compound 38 was also used. Mice administered doses of the h1F6 conjugate at 0.1 mg kg exhibited some tumor reduction while higher doses at 0.3 mg kg and 1 mg kg appeared to exhibit complete tumor reduction. The control conjugate non binding was less active the h1F6 conjugates.

Referring to the results of a treatment study using an h1F6 mc val ala SG3132 2 h1F6 compound 38 conjugate are shown. A control conjugate cAC10 mc val ala SG3132 2 cAC10 compound 38 was also used. Mice administered doses of the h1F6 conjugate at 1 mg kg appeared to exhibit complete tumor reduction. Mice administered lower doses at 0.3 mg kg and 0.1 mg kg exhibited lesser tumor reduction respectively. The control conjugate non binding was less active the h1F6 conjugate administered at a similar dose although it exhibited more activity than the h1F6 conjugate administered at lower doses. The h1F6 conjugate was also more active than an h1F6 vc MMAE conjugate Published U.S. Application No. 2009 0148942 administered at higher doses.

Referring to the results of a treatment study using a two loaded antibody h1F6d linked to compound 38 h1F6d 38 compared to a two loaded non binding control H00d conjugated to the same compound h00d 38 . The model was a Caki subcutaneous model in Nude mice. Doses were 0.1 0.3 and 1 mg kg q7dX2. The highest two doses of the h1F6 conjugate demonstrated complete regressions as 1 mg kg and substantial tumor delay at 0.3 mg kg. The non binding control demonstated tumor delay at the 1 mg kg dose.

Referring to the results of a treatment study using a two loaded antibody h1F6d linked to compound 38 h1F6d 38 compared to a two loaded non binding control H00d conjugated to the same compound h00d 38 . The model was a 786 O subcutaneous model in Nude mice. Doses were 0.1 0.3 and 1 mg kg q7dX2. All three doses of the h1F6 conjugate demonstrated complete regressions or tumor delay while the non binding control demonstated tumor delay.

