---

title: Registry synchronizer and integrity monitor
abstract: According to one general aspect, a method may include determining the validity of a registry entry, wherein the registry entry is included in a deleted items registry, the deleted items registry including registry entries previously determined to be invalid. Upon determining the registry entry is valid, moving the registry entry to a valid items registry, and upon determining the registry entry is invalid, determine if the registry entry has been invalid more than a threshold number of times, upon determining the registry entry has not been invalid more than the threshold number of times, increase a period of time before a next determination as to whether the registry entry in the deleted items registry is valid, and upon determining the registry entry has been invalid more than the threshold number of times, remove the second registry entry from the deleted items registry.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09516109&OS=09516109&RS=09516109
owner: BMC SOFTWARE, INC.
number: 09516109
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20160218
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 341 171 filed Dec. 30 2011 entitled Registry Synchronizer and Integrity Monitor the contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This description relates to services provided over a communications network and more specifically to services provided by a network registry.

In this context a network service is a software system or application designed to support interoperable machine to machine interaction over a communications network. Typically a server computing device or aggregated devices may host a network service that provides information or accomplishes a task in a predefined way e.g. provide the current temperature for a given location etc. . Another computing device such as a client computing device may make use of this network service e.g. via a series of messages across a communications network etc. to accomplish a task e.g. find out what the current temperature at a given location is etc. .

Generally a network service includes an interface described in a machine processable format. Often other computing devices or systems interact with the network service in a manner prescribed by its description using messages typically conveyed using Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS .

According to one general aspect a method may include maintaining a registry of registry entries. Each registry entry may include a description and a network address of a network service. The method may also include determining the validity of a registry entry wherein the registry entry is included in a deleted items registry the deleted items registry including registry entries previously determined to be invalid. Upon determining the registry entry is valid moving the registry entry to a valid items registry. Upon determining the registry entry is invalid determine if the registry entry has been invalid more than a threshold number of times upon determining the registry entry has not been invalid more than the threshold number of times increase a period of time before a next determination as to whether the registry entry in the deleted items registry is valid and upon determining the registry entry has been invalid more than the threshold number of times remove the second registry entry from the deleted items registry.

According to another general aspect an apparatus may include a local memory and a processor. The local memory may be configured to store a primary registry of registry entries and a deleted items registry of registry entries. Each registry entry may include a description and a network address of a network service. The processor may be configured to execute executable code defining a registry service that maintains the primary registry of registry entries periodically determines the validity a registry entry wherein the registry entry is included in the primary registry and if the registry entry is not valid moves the registry entry to the deleted items registry of registry entries.

According to another general aspect a computer program product for validating information may exist. The computer program product may be tangibly embodied on a computer readable medium and include executable code. When executed the executable code may cause a registry apparatus to maintain a primary registry of registry entries. Each registry entry may include a network service description and a network service network address. The executable code may also cause the apparatus to periodically determine the validity a registry entry included in the primary registry. The executable code may further cause the apparatus to if the registry entry is not valid move the registry entry to a deleted items registry of registry entries.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

A system and or method for registration of network services substantially as shown in and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

In various embodiments the registry device the client device and or the network service device s may each include a computing device such as for example one or more server computing devices. However in various embodiments the registry device may include a shared computing terminal a thin client a desktop personal computer a laptop a netbook a tablet a smartphone etc. or a virtual machine or appliance thereof.

In various embodiments the registry device may include a processor configured to execute one or more machine executable instructions or pieces of software firmware or a combination thereof. The registry device may include in some embodiments a memory configured to store on or more pieces of data either temporarily permanently semi permanently or a combination thereof. Further the memory may include volatile memory non volatile memory or a combination thereof. In various embodiments the registry device may include a storage medium configured to store data in a semi permanent or substantially permanent form. In various embodiments the storage medium may be included by the memory .

In various embodiments the registry device may include one or more network interfaces configured to allow the registry device to be part of and communicate via a communications network . Examples of a Wi Fi protocol may include but are not limited to Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11g IEEE 802.11n etc. Examples of a cellular protocol may include but are not limited to IEEE 802.16m a.k.a. Wireless MAN Metropolitan Area Network Advanced Long Term Evolution LTE Advanced Enhanced Data rates for GSM Global System for Mobile Communications Evolution EDGE Evolved High Speed Packet Access HSPA etc. Examples of a wired protocol may include but are not limited to IEEE 802.3 a.k.a. Ethernet Fibre Channel Power Line communication e.g. HomePlug IEEE 1901 etc. etc. It is understood that the above are merely a few illustrative examples to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited.

In various embodiments the registry device may include one or more other hardware components e.g. a display or monitor a keyboard a touchscreen a camera a fingerprint reader a video processor etc. . It is understood that the above are merely a few illustrative examples to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited.

In various embodiments the registry device may include an operating system OS configured to provide one or more services to an application e.g. registrar etc. and manage or act as an intermediary between the application and the various hardware components e.g. the processor a network interface etc. of the registry device . In such an embodiment the registry device may include one or more native applications which may be installed locally e.g. within the storage medium etc. and configured to be executed directly by the processor and directly interact with the OS .

In various embodiments the system may include or be in communication with one or more network service devices . In such an embodiment the network service device may include various hardware components analogous to those described in relation to the registry device as described above. In one embodiment the network service device may provide or may execute a network service . In a specific embodiment the network service may include a web service. In various embodiments the network service may perform various functions such as providing information receiving information or a combination thereof. Example network services may include providing a weather report storing information e.g. a database a cloud data backup etc. currency conversion database lookups e.g. Customer relationship management data inventory status etc. insurance quote electronic payment or funds transfer package shipment tracking etc. It is understood that the above are merely a few illustrative examples to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited.

In a specific embodiment the network service may include a web service. In various embodiments other forms of a network service may use or employ one or more of the following technologies or be substantially compliant with the followings standards Extensible Markup Language XML JavaScript Object Notation JSON Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP and or a Representational state transfer REST ful web service etc. In various embodiments the network service may be accessed via one or more of the following technologies or be substantially compliant with the followings standards Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA Distributed System Object Model DSOM Distributed Component Object Mode DCOM Remote Procedure Calls RPC and or an Application Programming Interface API provided by the network service etc. It is understood that the above are merely a few illustrative examples to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited.

In various embodiments the network service may announce itself or register itself with the registry device or more specifically the primary registry . In such an embodiment the network service as indicated by arrow may transmit a registration message to the registry device . In various embodiments this registration message may include a registry entry RE . In such an embodiment the registry entry may include a description of the network service e.g. a human readable name a set of functions or services that may be performed by the network service etc. and a network address at which the network service may be accessed e.g. an Internet Protocol IP address a port number a Uniform Resource Locator URL etc. .

In a specific embodiment in which the network service is embodied as a web service the RE or registration message may include a Web Services Description Language WSDL compliant message. In such an embodiment the RE or registration message may merely include a message that is substantially compliant with the WSDL standard. In some embodiments the RE or the registration message may include an XML description of the network service . In various embodiments other public or private description or RE formats may be used. It is understood that the above is merely one illustrative example to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited.

In various embodiments the RE may be received by a registrar that is configured to add change or delete REs from the primary registry . In some embodiments the registrar may also do this for the deleted items registry . In another embodiment this may be performed by the entry validator as described below. In one embodiment the registrar may be configured to be the interface to the primary registry by processing registration messages from the network service device and network service inquiries or requests from the client device as described below.

In such an embodiment the registrar may take the RE or translate some or all of the information included in the registration message into a RE and enter its information into the primary registry as a RE . In various embodiments the primary registry may be configured to maintain a list or database of network services the function or services they provide and or names and how to access them e.g. their network addresses URLs etc. . In such an embodiment the primary registry may maintain this list via a series of REs each associated with a respective network service . In the illustrated embodiment the primary registry may include only valid REs .

In the illustrated embodiment the system may include or be used by a client device that may be used by e user . In another embodiment the client device may be a server or other back end computing device that is not used directly by a user . It is understood that the above are merely a few illustrative examples to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited.

As described above the client device may include various hardware components analogous to those described in relation to the registry device as described above. In one embodiment the client device may include or may execute an application . In such an embodiment the application may include pre compiled machine executable code. In some embodiments the application may include a script interpreter e.g. C shell csh AppleScript AutoHotkey etc. or a virtual machine e.g. the Java Virtual Machine the Microsoft Common Language Runtime etc. that are configured to translate source or object code into executable code which is then executed by a processor included by hardware . It is understood that the above are merely a few illustrative examples to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited.

In the illustrated embodiment the application may desire to make use of a network service that performs the function provided by network service . In such an embodiment the application may communicate illustrated by arrow with the registry device . The client device may send a network service request message to the registry device that asks for a particular network service. The registrar may examine the primary registry and determine if a given network service e.g. network service etc. will fulfill the client device s request. If so the registrar may respond back with a network service response illustrated by request response pair that includes information pertaining to the desired network service e.g. the RE the network address etc. . The application may then directly contact the network service illustrated by arrow and make use of the function or service provided by network service .

However in various embodiments the information in the primary registry may be out of date inaccurate or otherwise invalid. For example a network service device may go offline or otherwise be removed from the communications network a network service may be rebooted crash or otherwise become unresponsive etc. It is understood that the above are merely a few illustrative examples to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited. In such an embodiment the network service response may include information that if relied upon will cause the interaction arrow between the application and the network service to fail. In this context a RE is considered invalid if it includes information that is likely to cause the interaction arrow between the application and the network service to fail.

In the illustrated embodiment the registry device may include an entry validator that is configured to periodically test the validity of the information or at least a portion thereof of the REs included or stored within the primary registry .

In such an embodiment the entry validator may periodically send a validation request to the network service or the network service device illustrated by arrow . In one embodiment the validation request may verify the availability of the network service . In one such embodiment this verification of ability may include the use of the network management tool known as ping . It is understood that the above is merely one illustrative example to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited. In various embodiments the validation request message may include more complex network testing operations e.g. pathping traceroute etc. that also test latency network routing or other network performance metrics. In another embodiment the validation request message may include an attempt by the registry device to make use of the one or more functions provided by the network service . In such an embodiment the entry validator may expect the attempt to employ the network service to fail but to fail in a known or expected way e.g. an invalid password error as opposed to a network timeout error etc. . In yet another embodiment the entry validator may employ a testing technique that provides a more rigorous test than simply verifying the availability of the network service but yet less than attempt to employ the network service . It is understood that the above are merely a few illustrative examples to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited.

In such an embodiment if the entry validator using a predefined set of validation criteria determines that the network service or its corresponding RE is valid the entry validator may do nothing until the next periodic validation time. In another embodiment the entry validator may make note of the success or record a metric or statistic indicating the validation and or criteria used to make the determination as to validity as described below.

However in such an embodiment if the entry validator determines that the RE is invalid or not valid e.g. a failure to connect to the network service etc. the entry validator may remove the RE from the primary registry and add or place the RE in a deleted items registry .

In various embodiments the registry device may include a secondary or deleted items registry . In such an embodiment the deleted items registry may be configured to maintain a list or database of REs that have been deemed to be invalid or otherwise undesirable to inclusion in the primary registry . As opposed to the REs in the primary registry that are given out to client devices e.g. network service request response the REs are not given out to client devices . Instead the REs may be maintained for re inclusion into the primary registry if they REs are only temporarily invalid e.g. heavy load on the network service device congestion in the communications network etc. . It is understood that the above is merely one illustrative example to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited.

In such an embodiment the entry validator may periodically re check the validity of the invalid REs stored within the deleted items registry . In various embodiments it may do this by re sending the validation request as described above. In another embodiment other validation techniques or criteria may be employed.

In various embodiments if the entry validator determines that the invalid RE is now valid e.g. passed a second or subsequent validation test etc. the entry validator may move e.g. add and delete etc. the RE from the deleted items registry to the primary registry . Once in the primary registry the RE may then be given out or used as any other normal e.g. via a network service request response pair etc. .

In various embodiments this may save the network service device the task of re registering via the registration message the network service after a period of inactivity. In various embodiments if the network service does perform a registration of the network service before the invalid RE has been re tested e.g. the period between periodic tests or determinations has not passed etc. the entry validator or registrar may remove the corresponding invalid RE from the deleted items registry . It is understood that the above is merely one illustrative example to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited.

In some embodiments if the entry validator determines that the invalid RE is still invalid the entry validator may adjust the period between validation tests. In one such embodiment the period between validation tests may increase based upon the number of contiguous invalid determinations. For example a first period may be one millisecond then one second then one minute then one hour the one day etc. In various embodiments the period may reset to a default value if the RE is determined to be valid or a RE is moved to the deleted items registry even if the RE had previously been on the deleted items registry. It is understood that the above is merely one illustrative example to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited.

In various embodiments the entry validator may maintain a threshold that dictates the number of times in a row or in one embodiment in total a network service or RE may be determined to be invalid. In such an embodiment once the RE has been viewed as invalid greater than and or equal to this threshold the RE may be removed from the deleted items registry . In various embodiments this threshold may differ for each network service class of network service network address associated with the network services or other criteria. It is understood that the above are merely a few illustrative examples to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited.

In various embodiments the registry device may be incorporated with or the same device as the client device or one or more of the network services devices . In some embodiments the communications network may include an intranet and system need not include devices scattered across the Internet. It is understood that the above are merely a few illustrative examples to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited.

In one embodiment the registry device may include a statistics or metrics monitor . In such an embodiment the metrics monitor may maintain a set of metrics or statistics regarding each network service or RE . In various embodiments these metrics may be stored in the deleted items registry or separately e.g. in the storage medium metrics monitor etc. . In such an embodiment the metrics may include a failure rate for the network service latency or other network performance information gathered as part of the validation tests the time of date week or month when the respective validation tests were performed etc. It is understood that the above are merely a few illustrative examples to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited.

In one embodiment the system may include or be used by a service management device SMD . In such an embodiment the service management device may be configured to facilitate the monitoring and management of a communications network or enterprise information technology IT infrastructure or portion thereof. In one embodiment the service management device may include an enterprise management service . It is understood that the above is merely one illustrative example to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited.

In the illustrated embodiment the SMD may request access to some or all of the metrics . In such an embodiment the SMD may transmit a network services NS metric request to the registry device illustrated by arrow . In various embodiments the metric monitor may receive the NS Metric request process the desired information from the metrics and respond with a NS Metric Response illustrated by NS Metric Request Response pair . In various embodiments the metrics or the portion included by the NS Metric Response may be employed to automatically ameliorate one or more network or IT problems or issues. It is understood that the above is merely one illustrative example to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited.

In various embodiments the collection of the metrics may be performed by the entry validator or other portion of the registry device or registry device of . In some embodiments the SMD may be incorporated in whole or part with the registry device or other devices e.g. devices or . It is understood that the above are merely a few illustrative examples to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited.

RE illustrates the fields that may be included within one RE stored within a primary registry of network services. In one embodiment the RE may include a field for storing the name of the respective network service NS . In one embodiment the RE may include a field configured to store a description of the functions or services provided by the network service. In various embodiments the RE may include a field configured to store the network address e.g. an IP address etc. where the network service may be reached or accessed. In some embodiments the RE may include a field that describes or stores a port number e.g. 80 8080 443 21 etc. where the network service may be reached or accessed. In some embodiments the network address and or port fields and may be combined or may include a URL or Uniform Resource Identifier URI etc.

It is understood that the above is merely one illustrative example to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited. In various embodiments other formats and fields for RE may be employed. In one specific example in which the network service is embodied as a web service a RE substantially in compliance with a version of the WSDL standard may be employed. In such an embodiment the RE may include fields for service endpoint binding interface operations and types. It is understood that WSDL is merely one illustrative example to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited.

RE illustrates the fields that may be included within one RE stored within a deleted items registry of network services. In one embodiment the RE may include the RE in whole or part e.g. fields and etc. . In some embodiments the RE may also include a field configured to store the number or times the registry device has attempted and failed to validate the respective network service or RE . In various embodiments the RE may include a field configured to store the period of time before the next validation attempt by the registry device. In one embodiment the field may store the time of the next validation attempt e.g. 8 02 pm etc. the time until the next valid attempt e.g. 864 milliseconds etc. the time of the last validation attempt e.g. 8 00 pm etc. or another value used to determine when the next periodic validation determination or attempt should occur. In various embodiments the RE may also include one or more fields configured to store validation metrics or statistics as described above. It is understood that the above are merely a few illustrative examples to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited.

In the illustrated embodiment the deleted items registry s RE may include additional fields than are not found in the primary registry s RE . In various embodiments one or more of these fields may be stored separately from the RE . For example one or more of these values may be stored by the entry validator or metric monitor etc.

In various embodiments these REs and may be stored in a text based format e.g. XML JSON etc. or a binary format e.g. compressed format integer and character encoding database entry etc. . In various embodiments one of more of the described fields may include sub fields e.g. each function or service provided by the network service may be associated with a respective sub field or portion of the port field etc. .

Block illustrates that in one embodiment a primary registry of registry entries REs may be maintained as described above. In various embodiments the registry entry may be associated with a network service as described above. In some embodiments the registry entry may include a description and a network address of the network service as described above. In various embodiments one or more of the action s illustrated by this Block may be performed by the apparatuses or systems of the registry device and or the registrar of as described above.

Block illustrates that in one embodiment the validity of a registry entry included by the primary registry determined on a periodic basis as described above. In various embodiments determining may include recording the results of the periodic determinations as described above. In some embodiments determining may include providing the recorded results to a monitoring apparatus as described above. In one embodiment determining may include attempting to make use of the network service associated with the registry entry as described above. In another embodiment determining may include attempting to connect with a network address of the network service associated with the registry entry as described above. In various embodiments one or more of the action s illustrated by this Block may be performed by the apparatuses or systems of the registry device the primary registry the deleted items registry and or the entry validator of and or the metric monitor of as described above.

Block illustrates that in one embodiment if the registry entry is not valid the registry entry may be moved to a deleted items registry of registry entries as described above. In various embodiments if the registry entry is valid it may remain within the primary registry as described above. In various embodiments one or more of the action s illustrated by this Block may be performed by the apparatuses or systems of the registry device the primary registry the deleted items registry and or the entry validator of as described above.

Block illustrates that in one embodiment the validity of a registry entry included by the deleted items registry determined on a periodic basis as described above. In various embodiments determining may include adjusting a period of time in between the periodical determination based upon a heuristic procedure as described above. In various embodiments one or more of the action s illustrated by this Block may be performed by the apparatuses or systems of the registry device the primary registry the deleted items registry and or the entry validator of as described above.

Block illustrates that in one embodiment if it is determined that the registry entry within the deleted items registry is valid that the registry entry may be moved to the primary registry as described above. In various embodiments one or more of the action s illustrated by this Block may be performed by the apparatuses or systems of the registry device the primary registry the deleted items registry and or the entry validator of as described above.

Block illustrates that in one embodiment if it is determined that the registry entry within the deleted items registry is not valid it may be determined if the registry entry has been invalid more than a threshold number of times as described above. In various embodiments the threshold may be an inclusive threshold in which the criteria is met if the registry entry has been invalid more than or equal to a threshold number of time. In some embodiments determining may include counting down to a number e.g. zero etc. . In another embodiment determining may include counting up to a predefined value e.g. a threshold value etc. . It is understood that the above are merely a few illustrative examples to which the disclosed subject matter is not limited. In various embodiments one or more of the action s illustrated by this Block may be performed by the apparatuses or systems of the registry device the threshold and or the entry validator of as described above.

Block illustrates that in one embodiment if the threshold value has not been met a period of time before a next periodic determination as to whether the registry entry in the deleted items registry of web service is valid may be adjusted and or increased as described above. In various embodiments this adjustment may be based upon a heuristic scheme or technique as described above. In various embodiments one or more of the action s illustrated by this Block may be performed by the apparatuses or systems of the registry device the period and or the entry validator of as described above.

Block illustrates that in one embodiment if a threshold value has been met the registry entry may be removed or deleted from the deleted items registry of network services as described above. In various embodiments one or more of the action s illustrated by this Block may be performed by the apparatuses or systems of the registry device the deleted items registry and or the entry validator of as described above.

In various embodiments during some or all portions of technique a set of statistics or metrics based upon the periodic determining of the validity of the registry entry may be compiled as described above. In various embodiments one or more of the action s illustrated by this Block may be performed by the apparatuses or systems of the registry device the primary registry the deleted items registry and or the entry validator of and or the metric monitor of as described above.

Implementations of the various techniques described herein may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Implementations may be implemented as a computer program product i.e. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program such as the computer program s described above can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Method steps may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method steps also may be performed by and an apparatus may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. Elements of a computer may include at least one processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer also may include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory may be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations may be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a cathode ray tube CRT or liquid crystal display LCD monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

Implementations may be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. Components may be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

While certain features of the described implementations have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the scope of the embodiments.

